<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>cng10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CORNING INCORPORATED'S FORM 10-K
<TEXT>


                                 Securities and
                               Exchange Commission
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                   For the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 2001
                          Commission file number 1-3247


                              Corning Incorporated
                     One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, NY 14831
                                  607-974-9000

                                    New York
                            (State of incorporation)

                                   16-0393470
                      (I.R.S. employer identification no.)


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.50 par value,                  New York Stock Exchange
with attached Preferred Share
       Purchase Right

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.
Yes   x            No
    -----             ------

Indicate by check if  disclosure of  delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and will not be contained,  to the best
of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of February 7, 2002, shares held by  non-affiliates  of Corning  Incorporated
had an  aggregate  market  value of  $6,004,618,403.  As of  February  7,  2002,
944,919,754 shares of Corning's common stock were outstanding.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 4, 2002, and
filed for the Registrant's  2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated
into Part III, as specifically set forth in Part III.





<PAGE>



                                     PART I


Item 1.  Business
-----------------

General

Corning traces its origins to a glass business  established in 1851. The present
corporation was  incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936, and its
name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning  Incorporated  on April 28,
1989.

Corning  is a global,  technology-based  corporation,  which  operates  in three
reportable  business  segments:   Telecommunications,   Advanced  Materials  and
Information Display.

The  Telecommunications  Segment  produces  optical  fiber  and  cable,  optical
hardware and equipment,  photonic modules and components and optical  networking
devices for the worldwide telecommunications industry.

The Advanced  Materials Segment  manufactures  specialized  products with unique
properties for customer applications  utilizing glass, glass ceramic and polymer
technologies.  Businesses  within this segment include  environmental  products,
life  science  products,   semiconductor  materials  and  optical  and  lighting
products.

The  Information  Display  Segment  manufactures  glass  panels and  funnels for
televisions  and cathode ray tubes,  liquid crystal display glass for flat panel
displays and precision lens assemblies for projection video systems.

Corning and its  subsidiaries  manufacture and process  products at more than 90
plants in 19 countries.

Except as otherwise  indicated by the context,  the terms "Corning" or "Company"
as used herein, mean Corning Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Additional  discussion  of Corning and each of its segments is discussed in Item
7,  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of
Operations,  appearing  on pages 12  through  31,  and  Note 3  (Information  by
Operating Segment) to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements appearing on pages
49 through 53.

Competition

Corning  competes  across  all of its  product  lines with many large and varied
manufacturers,  both domestic and foreign.  Some of these competitors are larger
than Corning, and some have broader product lines.

Competition  within the  telecommunications  industry is intense  among  several
significant  companies.  Corning  represents an important market presence in the
segment's  principal  product  lines.  Price  and new  product  innovations  are
significant  competitive factors. The current downturn in the telecommunications
industry may change the competitive landscape in the future.

Within  the  Advanced  Materials  Segment,  Corning's  principal  products  face
competition from a variety of materials manufacturers, some of which manufacture
similar products made from materials other than glass and ceramics.  Among other
things, innovation, product quality, performance and service are key competitive
elements.  Competition  is  also  intense  for  certain  businesses  within  the
Information Display Segment as new entrants may be able to offer lower prices.

Corning strives to maintain its market position  through  technology and product
innovation.  For  the  future,  Corning's  competitive  advantage  lies  in  its
commitment  to  research  and  development,  its  financial  resources  and  its
commitment  to  quality.  There is no  assurance  that  Corning  will be able to
maintain its market position or competitive advantage.

Raw Materials

Corning's  production  of  specialty  glasses  and  related  materials  requires
significant quantities of energy and batch materials.

Although energy shortages have not been a problem recently, Corning has achieved
flexibility  through  important  engineering  changes to take  advantage  of the
lowest-cost energy source in most significant processes. Specifically, Corning's
principal manufacturing processes can now be operated with natural gas, propane,
oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources.

                                       1

<PAGE>

As  to  resources  (ores,   minerals,   and  processed  chemicals)  required  in
manufacturing  operations,   availability  appears  to  be  adequate.  Corning's
suppliers  from time to time may  experience  capacity  limitations in their own
operations,  or may  eliminate  certain  product  lines;  nevertheless,  Corning
believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch chemicals
and raw materials. For many products, Corning has alternative glass compositions
that would allow  operations to continue  without  interruption  in the event of
specific materials shortages.

Certain key optical  components  used in the  manufacturing  of products  within
Corning's Telecommunications Segment are currently available only from a limited
number of sources.  Any future  difficulty  in obtaining  sufficient  and timely
delivery  of  components  could  result  in  delays  or  reductions  in  product
shipments, or reduce Corning's gross margins.

Patents and Trademarks

Inventions by members of Corning's research and engineering staff have been, and
continue to be, important to the Company's growth.  Patents have been granted on
many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these
patents  have  been  licensed  to  other   manufacturers,   including  Corning's
associated companies. Many of the earlier patents have now expired.

Most of Corning's products are marketed under the following trademarks: Corning,
Celcor, Costar,  FiberGain,  HPFS, LEAF, MetroCor,  PurePath, Pyrex, Steuben and
Vycor.   Subsidiaries  and  divisions  of  Corning   frequently  use  their  own
trademarks.

Protection of the Environment

Corning  has a program to ensure  that its  facilities  are in  compliance  with
state, federal and foreign pollution-control  regulations. This program resulted
in capital and operating expenditures during the past several years. In order to
maintain  compliance with such regulations,  capital  expenditures for pollution
control in continuing  operations were approximately $64 million in 2001 and are
estimated to be $12 million in 2002.

Corning's 2001 operating  results from  continuing  operations were charged with
approximately  $59 million for  depreciation,  maintenance,  waste  disposal and
other operating  expenses  associated with pollution  control.  Corning believes
that its compliance program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage.

Risk Factors

The  following  cautionary  statements  are not exclusive and are in addition to
other factors  discussed  elsewhere in this annual report,  in Corning's filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein
by reference.

OUR  SALES  COULD BE  NEGATIVELY  IMPACTED  IF ONE OR MORE OF OUR KEY  CUSTOMERS
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED ORDERS FOR OUR PRODUCTS

Our customer base is relatively  concentrated,  and a modest number of customers
account  for  a  high  percentage  of  net  sales  in  our   telecommunications,
environmental  products and information  display product  businesses.  If we are
unable to establish or maintain good relationships with key customers,  it could
negatively affect our results of operations and financial performance.

Some of our major  customers  have reduced,  modified,  cancelled or rescheduled
orders  for our  products  and have  expressed  uncertainty  as to their  future
requirements.  As a result,  our sales  have  declined  and it is  difficult  to
predict future sales accurately.  The conditions contributing to this difficulty
include:

-    uncertainty   regarding   the   capital   spending   plans  of  the   major
     telecommunications  carriers,  upon whom our customers and,  ultimately we,
     depend for sales;

-    the  telecommunications  carriers'  current  limited  access to the capital
     required for expansion; and

-    general market and economic uncertainty.

The current economic downturn may be more severe and prolonged than expected. If
our net sales continue to decline,  our ability to return to  profitability  and
improve free cash flow for future periods may be impeded.

                                       2

<PAGE>

IF  WE  DO  NOT  SUCCESSFULLY  ADJUST  OUR  MANUFACTURING  VOLUMES,  OR  ACHIEVE
MANUFACTURING  YIELDS, OR SUFFICIENT PRODUCT RELIABILITY,  OUR OPERATING RESULTS
COULD SUFFER

In the current  economic  downturn,  we have  responded to the softer  market by
cutting  costs,  including the reduction of our  manufacturing  volumes.  In the
third and fourth quarters of 2001, we approved and began executing  formal plans
to close seven major  manufacturing  facilities  and downsize  our  workforce by
approximately 12,000 positions.  We cannot assure you that we have mitigated the
adverse  effects  of a softer  market,  nor can we  assure  you that  additional
adjustments will not be necessary to respond to further market changes.

The manufacture of our products  involves highly complex and precise  processes,
requiring production in highly controlled and clean environments. Changes in our
manufacturing  processes,  or those of our suppliers could significantly  reduce
our  manufacturing  yields and  product  reliability.  In some  cases,  existing
manufacturing  techniques,  which  involve  substantial  manual  labor,  may  be
insufficient  to achieve the volume,  or cost targets of our customers.  We will
need to develop new  manufacturing  processes and techniques to achieve targeted
volume and cost levels.  While we continue to devote substantial  efforts to the
improvement of our  manufacturing  techniques and processes,  we may not achieve
cost  levels  in our  manufacturing  activities  that  will  fully  satisfy  our
customers.

WE HAVE INCURRED, AND MAY IN THE FUTURE INCUR, RESTRUCTURING,  INVENTORY-RELATED
AND OTHER CHARGES, THE AMOUNTS OF WHICH ARE DIFFICULT TO PREDICT ACCURATELY

As a result of the business  downturn,  we approved and began  executing  formal
plans to close seven major  manufacturing  facilities and downsize our workforce
by approximately  12,000 positions.  As a result of these actions, we recorded a
total  charge  of  $961  million  ($590  million  after-tax)  which  included  a
restructuring  charge of $419 million and a charge to impair plant and equipment
of $542 million.  We also recorded pre-tax charges totaling $333 million for the
write-down of excess and obsolete inventory in the second and fourth quarters of
2001.  Our  ability to forecast  our  customers'  needs for our  products in the
current economic  environment is very limited.  Accordingly,  additional charges
for restructuring,  inventory adjustments,  or write-downs and other charges may
be  required  if  the  business  downturn  is  more  severe  than  we  currently
anticipate.

IF THE  MARKETS FOR OUR  PRODUCTS  DO NOT  DEVELOP AND EXPAND AS WE  ANTICIPATE,
DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY DECLINE,  WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY  IMPACT OUR RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies,
evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.  Our success
is  expected  to depend,  in  substantial  part,  on the  timely and  successful
introduction  of new  products,  upgrades  of current  products  to comply  with
emerging  industry  standards,  our  ability to acquire  technologies  needed to
remain  competitive  and our  ability  to  address  competing  technologies  and
products.  In addition,  the following  factors  related to our products and the
markets for them could have an adverse  impact on our results of operations  and
financial performance:

-    if we are unable to introduce  optical fiber, or any other leading products
     such as our glass for flat  panel  displays  that can  command  competitive
     prices in the marketplace;

-    if we are unable to  achieve,  or  maintain a  favorable  mix of  products,
     including a mix of sales between premium and non-premium products;

-    a decline  in  demand,  or an  unanticipated  change in market  demand  for
     specific products;

-    if we are unable to continue  to develop  new product  lines to address our
     customers'  diverse  needs within the several  market  segments in which we
     participate.  This  requires  a high  level of  innovation,  as well as the
     accurate anticipation of technological and market trends; or

-    if we are not successful in creating the infrastructure required to support
     anticipated growth in product demand.

                                       3

<PAGE>

WE FACE PRICING PRESSURES IN EACH OF OUR LEADING BUSINESSES THAT COULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

We are currently facing pricing  pressures in several of our leading  businesses
as a result  of  intense  competition,  emerging  new  technologies  and  excess
manufacturing capacity in both the domestic and the international  marketplaces.
While we will work toward reducing our costs to respond to pricing pressures, we
may not be able to achieve  proportionate  reductions  in costs.  As a result of
potential overcapacity and the current economic downturn,  pricing pressures may
increase in the foreseeable future.

WE HAVE  INCURRED AND MAY IN THE FUTURE  INCUR,  GOODWILL  AND OTHER  INTANGIBLE
ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGES

Acquisitions recorded as purchases for accounting purposes have resulted, and in
the future may result, in the recognition of significant amounts of goodwill and
other purchased  intangibles.  The  amortization  and impairment of these assets
through  2001  and  potential   impairment  of  these  assets   thereafter   has
significantly reduced and could further reduce our net income.

During the first half of 2001, we experienced a significant decrease in the rate
of  growth  of  our  Telecommunications   Segment,  primarily  in  the  photonic
technologies business,  due to a dramatic decline in infrastructure  spending in
the telecommunications  industry.  During the second quarter, major customers in
the photonic  technologies  business reduced their order forecasts and cancelled
orders already placed.  Management  determined that the growth prospects of this
business  were  significantly  less  than  previously   expected  and  those  of
historical  periods.  As a result,  we determined  that the  long-lived  assets,
including  goodwill  and  other  intangibles  acquired  in  connection  with our
acquisition of Optical  Technologies  USA from Pirelli and Cisco Systems and our
acquisition of NetOptix Corporation, were not recoverable. In the second quarter
of 2001, we recorded a pre-tax charge of approximately $4.76 billion to impair a
significant  portion of the goodwill and other  intangible  assets in connection
with these acquisitions.

In June 2001,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued  Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 pursuant to which goodwill will no
longer be amortized,  but will be subject to impairment tests at least annually.
SFAS No. 142 was  effective  for us on January 1,  2002.  An  assessment  of the
recoverability  of goodwill  recorded on the date of adoption  must be performed
within one year. We do not anticipate a transitional  impairment charge from the
adoption of the standard; however, future changes in the expected performance of
our businesses could cause us to take further  impairment  charges.  At December
31, 2001, Corning had $1.9 billion in goodwill.

WE MAY BE LIMITED IN OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN  ADDITIONAL  CAPITAL ON  COMMERCIALLY
REASONABLE TERMS

Although we believe existing cash, short-term investments, operating cash flows,
access to capital markets and borrowing capacity, collectively, provide adequate
resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures
relating to the expansion of existing  businesses  and  acquisitions,  we may be
required to seek additional  financing to compete  effectively in these markets.
Our public  debt  ratings  affect our ability to raise debt and the cost of such
debt. In February 2002,  Fitch  downgraded our long-term rating from BBB to BBB-
with a negative  outlook.  In November  2001,  Standard & Poor's  downgraded our
corporate rating from A to BBB and maintained a negative outlook, while removing
us from CreditWatch with negative  implications,  and Moody's reduced our senior
debt  rating  from A3 to Baa1 with a  negative  outlook.  These and any  further
downgrades  could increase  borrowing costs and affect our ability to access the
debt capital  markets,  including the commercial  paper market,  on a consistent
basis.  The  pricing  of our  common  stock may limit our  ability to access the
equity capital markets on terms and in amounts that would be satisfactory to us.

DIFFICULTIES WE MAY ENCOUNTER IN MANAGING OUR GROWTH COULD ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

We have  historically  achieved  growth  through  a  combination  of  internally
developed  new products and  acquisitions.  Our growth  strategy  depends on our
ability to continue  developing or acquiring new products for our customer base.
We expect to  continue  to pursue  acquisitions  of other  companies  as well as
equity  ventures to develop new  technologies  and  product  lines,  although we
cannot guarantee that we will be successful, or that we will have cash or equity
sufficient to complete strategic  acquisitions.  The success of each acquisition
will depend, in part, upon our ability:

-    to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our organization;

                                       4

<PAGE>

-    to  manufacture  and  sell  the  products  of the  businesses  acquired  at
     satisfactory prices and gross margins;

-    to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses;

-    to apply our financial and  management  controls and reporting  systems and
     procedures to the acquired businesses; and

-    to successfully complete technology initiatives.

IF  OUR  PRODUCTS  OR  COMPONENTS   PURCHASED  FROM  OUR  SUPPLIERS   EXPERIENCE
PERFORMANCE ISSUES, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER

Our business depends on our producing  excellent  products of consistently  high
quality.  To this end, our products,  including  components  purchased  from our
suppliers,  are  rigorously  tested for  quality  both by us and our  customers.
Nevertheless,  our  products  are  highly  complex  and our  customers'  testing
procedures are limited to evaluating  our products under likely and  foreseeable
failure scenarios. For various reasons (including,  among others, the occurrence
of performance problems  unforeseeable in testing),  our products and components
purchased from our suppliers may fail to perform as expected. Performance issues
could  result  from  faulty  design  or  problems  in  manufacturing.   We  have
experienced  such  performance  issues in the past and  remain  exposed  to such
performance  issues.  In some cases,  product  redesigns or  additional  capital
equipment may be required to correct a defect.  In addition,  any significant or
systemic  product  failure  could  result in lost future  sales of the  affected
product and other products, as well as result in customer relations problems.

INTERRUPTIONS  OF  SUPPLIES  FROM OUR KEY  SUPPLIERS  MAY AFFECT OUR  RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

Interruptions  of supplies from our key suppliers could disrupt  production,  or
impact our ability to increase  production and sales. We obtain several critical
components used in the production of telecommunications  products from a limited
number  of  suppliers,  some of which are also our  competitors.  We do not have
long-term  or volume  purchase  agreements  with  every  supplier,  and may have
limited options for  alternative  supply if these suppliers fail to continue the
supply of components.

WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN SEVERAL OF OUR BUSINESSES

We face intense competition in several of our businesses. We expect that we will
face  additional  competition  from  existing  competitors  and from a number of
companies  that may enter our  markets.  Since  some of the  markets in which we
compete are characterized by rapid growth and rapid technology changes,  smaller
niche and start-up companies may become our principal competitors in the future.
We  must  invest  in  research   and   development,   expand  our   engineering,
manufacturing  and  marketing  capabilities,  and  continue to improve  customer
service and support in order to remain competitive. While we expect to undertake
the investment  and effort in each of these areas,  we cannot assure you that we
will be able to maintain or improve our  competitive  position.  Our competitors
may have  greater  financial,  engineering,  manufacturing,  marketing  or other
support resources.  Market  consolidation may also create additional or stronger
competitors and may intensify competition.

WE MAY EXPERIENCE  DIFFICULTIES IN OBTAINING OR PROTECTING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
RIGHTS

We may encounter  difficulties,  costs or risks in protecting  our  intellectual
property  rights or  obtaining  rights to  additional  intellectual  property to
permit us to continue or expand our businesses. Other companies,  including some
of our large  competitors,  hold patents in our industries and are  aggressively
seeking to expand their patent portfolios.  The intellectual  property rights of
others  could  inhibit our  ability to  introduce  new  products in our field of
operations  unless we secure licenses on commercially  reasonable terms. We are,
and  may  in  the  future  be,  subject  to  claims  of  intellectual   property
infringement  from time to time and we cannot  assure  you as to the  outcome of
such claims.

WE FACE RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND SALES

We have  customers  located  outside the United  States,  as well as significant
foreign  operations,  including  manufacturing  and sales.  As a result of these
international operations, we face a number of risks, including:

-    the difficulty of effectively managing our diverse global operations;

                                       5

<PAGE>

-    change in regulatory requirements;

-    tariffs and other trade barriers;

-    political and economic instability in foreign markets; and

-    fluctuations  in  foreign  currencies  which  may  make our  products  less
     competitive  in  countries  in  which  local  currencies  decline  in value
     relative to the dollar.

IF WE FAIL TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY  PERSONNEL,  OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  AND
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY SUFFER

Our future  success  will be  determined  in part by our  ability to attract and
retain,  in the current  business  environment,  key  scientific  and  technical
personnel for our research,  development and engineering  efforts.  Our business
also depends on the continued  contributions of our executive officers and other
key  management  and  technical  personnel.  A key to  attracting  and retaining
qualified  employees is our ability to provide employees with the opportunity to
participate  in the  potential  growth of our business  through such programs as
stock  option  plans and employee  investment  plans,  the value of which may be
adversely  affected by the  discontinuation  of the payment of  dividends on our
common stock, negative stock price performance or stock price volatility. We may
also find it more difficult to attract or retain qualified  employees due to our
recent  reductions  in the  workforce.  While  we  believe  that  we  have  been
successful in attracting and retaining key personnel,  we cannot assure you that
we will continue to be successful in the future.

IF WE PROVIDE CUSTOMER  FINANCING IN THE FUTURE,  IT COULD EXPOSE US TO THE TERM
CREDIT QUALITY OF OUR CUSTOMERS

We  currently  do not  provide  customer  financing.  However,  the  competitive
environment  in which we  operate  may  require us to  provide  medium-term  and
long-term  customer  financing in the future. If we do so, we will be exposed to
the term credit quality of our customers.  In the event of economic uncertainty,
or reduced  demand for customer  financings in the capital and bank markets,  we
may be  required to continue to hold some  customer  financing  obligations  for
longer periods prior to placement with third-party lenders.

ACTS OF  TERRORISM  OR WAR AND ANY  MILITARY OR ECONOMIC  RESPONSE BY THE UNITED
STATES MAY HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our financial  condition or results of operations  may be adversely  affected by
acts of terrorism,  military or economic actions taken in response or to prevent
similar acts of terrorism,  or any negative impacts on the economy of terrorists
acts or military responses.

CURRENT OR FUTURE  LITIGATION  MAY HARM OUR  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  OR RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Pending,  threatened or future litigation is subject to inherent  uncertainties.
Our financial  condition or results of operations  may be adversely  affected by
unfavorable outcomes, expenses and costs exceeding amounts estimated or insured.

OUR QUARTERLY RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE

We expect to continue to experience  fluctuations in our quarterly results.  All
of the concerns we have  discussed  under "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K could
affect our operating results. In addition, our operating results may be affected
by:

-    seasonality;

-    the timing of the receipt of product  orders from a limited number of major
     customers;

-    the announcement and introduction of new products by us;

-    expenses associated with litigation; and

-    the costs associated with the acquisition or disposition of a business.

                                       6

<PAGE>

OUR  COMMON  STOCK  PRICE  HAS   EXPERIENCED  AND  MAY  CONTINUE  TO  EXPERIENCE
SUBSTANTIAL VOLATILITY

The market price of our common stock has been,  and is likely to continue to be,
highly volatile because of the following factors:

-    fluctuations in our quarterly results;

-    announcements by our competitors and customers of technological innovations
     or new products;

-    developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; and

-    general market conditions.

In addition,  changes in the market's valuation of telecommunications  equipment
stocks,  and in particular those that participate in supplying optical fiber and
photonic  products,  could cause our common stock to be volatile or decline from
current levels.  The stock market has from time to time experienced  significant
price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of
particular  companies,  which fluctuation may also cause the price of our common
stock to decline.

Our results of operations and financial  performance in future  quarters may not
meet the expectations of public market  securities  analysts and investors,  and
that could cause significant volatility in the price of our common stock.

Other

Additional  information in response to Item I is found in Note 3 (Information by
Operating Segment) to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements appearing on pages
49 through  53 and Five Years in Review -  Historical  Comparison  appearing  on
pages 76 through 77.

Item 2.  Properties
-------------------

Corning operates more than 90 manufacturing plants and processing facilities, of
which  approximately  half  are  located  in the  United  States.  Corning  owns
substantially all of its executive and corporate buildings, which are located in
Corning,  New York. Corning also owns substantially all of its manufacturing and
research  and  development  facilities  and  more  than  half of its  sales  and
administrative facilities.

During the last five  years,  Corning has  invested  $5.6  billion in  property,
construction,  expansion,  and modernization for continuing  operations.  Of the
$1.8 billion  spent in 2001,  $464 million was spent on  facilities  outside the
United States.

Manufacturing, sales and administrative, and research and development facilities
at  consolidated  locations have an aggregate  floor space of  approximately  24
million square feet. Distribution of this total area is:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(million square feet)              Total            Domestic          Foreign
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Manufacturing                       18                 12               6
Sales and administrative             4                  2               2
Research and development             2                  2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    24                 16               8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Some  facilities  manufacture  products  included  in more  than  one  operating
segment. Total assets and capital expenditures by operating segment are included
in Note 3  (Information  by  Operating  Segment) to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  Information  concerning  lease  commitments  is included in Note 16
(Commitments,   Contingencies,   Guarantees  and  Hedging   Activities)  to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on pages 68 through 70.

                                       7

<PAGE>

During 2001,  Corning undertook a restructuring  program that closed seven major
manufacturing  facilities and consolidated  certain smaller  facilities.  In the
opinion of  management,  Corning's  facilities are now suitable and adequate for
production and  distribution  of the Company's  products based upon the level of
demand we anticipate in 2002. At December 31, 2001, Corning was not productively
utilizing a significant portion of space in the facilities.  Due to the slowdown
in the  telecommunications  industry  which lowered the demand for premium fiber
products,  the  Company  temporarily  idled  most  of  its  fiber  manufacturing
facilities and slowed cable manufacturing in the fourth quarter.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
--------------------------

Environmental Litigation. Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection
Agency under the  Superfund  Act, or by state  governments  under  similar state
laws, as a potentially  responsible  party at 12 active  hazardous  waste sites.
Under the  Superfund  Act, all parties who may have  contributed  any waste to a
hazardous  waste site,  identified  by such  Agency,  are jointly and  severally
liable  for the cost of  cleanup  unless  the  Agency  agrees  otherwise.  It is
Corning's  policy to accrue for its  estimated  liability  related to  Superfund
sites and other  environmental  liabilities related to property owned by Corning
based on expert analysis and continual  monitoring by both internal and external
consultants.  Corning has accrued  approximately  $24 million for its  estimated
liability for  environmental  cleanup and litigation at December 31, 2001. Based
upon the  information  developed to date,  management  believes that the accrued
reserve is a reasonable  estimate of the Company's  estimated liability and that
the risk of an additional loss in an amount  materially higher than that accrued
is remote.

Dow Corning Bankruptcy. Corning and The Dow Chemical Company each own 50% of the
common stock of Dow Corning  Corporation.  On May 15, 1995,  Dow Corning  sought
protection  under the  reorganization  provisions  of  Chapter  11 of the United
States  Bankruptcy  Code and  thereby  obtained a stay of  approximately  19,000
breast-implant  product liability lawsuits. On November 8, 1998, Dow Corning and
the Tort  Claimants  Committee  jointly  filed a revised Plan of  Reorganization
(Joint Plan) which was confirmed by the  Bankruptcy  Court on November 30, 1999.
On December 21, 1999, the  Bankruptcy  Court issued an opinion that approved the
principal  elements  of the  Joint  Plan with  respect  to tort  claimants,  but
construed  the Joint Plan as  providing  releases for third  parties  (including
Corning and Dow Chemical as  shareholders)  only with respect to tort  claimants
who voted in favor of the Joint Plan. On November 13, 2000,  the District  Court
entered an Order reversing the Bankruptcy  Court's December 21, 1999, Opinion on
the release and  injunction  provisions and confirmed the Joint Plan. On October
23, 2001,  the U.S.  Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit heard oral arguments
on appeals  taken by foreign  claimants,  the U.S.  government  and certain tort
claimants from various  portions of the District  Court's order.  On January 29,
2002, the Sixth Circuit affirmed the  determinations  made in the District Court
with respect to the foreign  claimants,  but remanded to the District  Court for
further  proceedings  with  respect  to the  claims of the U.S.  government  for
recovery of medical  expenses paid on behalf of tort  claimants and with respect
to the findings  supporting  the  non-debtor  releases in favor of Dow Corning's
shareholders  and insurers.  As a result of the remand,  there may be additional
hearings  in the  District  Court.  The timing and scope of the  proceedings  on
remand are not known at this  point,  and the Sixth  Circuit's  ruling adds some
uncertainty with respect to the ultimate  confirmation of the Joint Plan. If the
Joint  Plan is upheld  but the  shareholder  releases  are not given  their full
effect,  Corning would expect to defend any remaining claims against it (and any
new  claims) on the same  grounds  that led to a series of orders and  judgments
dismissing  all claims  against  Corning in the federal courts and in many state
courts  as  described  under  the  heading  Implant  Tort  Lawsuits  immediately
hereafter.  Management  believes that the claims against  Corning lack merit and
that the breast  implant  litigation  against  Corning will be resolved  without
material impact on Corning's financial statements.

Under the terms of the Joint Plan,  Dow Corning would be required to establish a
Settlement Trust and a Litigation Facility to provide a means for tort claimants
to settle or litigate  their claims.  Dow Corning  would have the  obligation to
fund the Trust and the Facility,  over a period of up to 16 years,  in an amount
up to  approximately  $3.3  billion,  subject  to  the  limitations,  terms  and
conditions  stated in the Joint Plan.  Corning and Dow Chemical have each agreed
to provide a credit  facility to Dow Corning of up to $150 million ($300 million
in the aggregate), subject to the terms and conditions stated in the Joint Plan.
The Joint Plan also provides for Dow Corning to make full payment,  through cash
and the issuance of senior notes,  to its commercial  creditors.  The commercial
creditors have contested the Bankruptcy Court's disallowance of their claims for
post-petition  interest at default  rates of interest,  and have appealed to the
District  Court.  While the  amounts at issue on this  appeal  are  subject to a
variety of  contingencies,  it is possible that the aggregate claim exceeds $100
million.  Dow  Corning is  vigorously  contesting  the  appeal.  If and when Dow
Corning  emerges from  bankruptcy,  Corning expects to resume the recognition of
equity earnings from Dow Corning.  Corning does not expect to receive  dividends
from Dow Corning in the foreseeable future.

                                       8

<PAGE>

Implant Tort Lawsuits. Corning and Dow Chemical, the shareholders of Dow Corning
Corporation,  were named in a number of state and federal tort lawsuits alleging
injuries  arising from Dow Corning's  implant  products.  The claims against the
shareholders  alleged a variety of direct or indirect theories of liability.  In
1992, the federal breast implants cases were  coordinated for pretrial  purposes
in the United States District Court,  Northern District of Alabama (Judge Sam C.
Pointer,  Jr.). In April 1995, Corning obtained a summary judgment dismissing it
from over 4,000  federal  court  cases.  On March 12,  1996,  the U.S.  Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh  Circuit  dismissed  the  plaintiffs'  appeal from that
judgment.  In state court  legislation,  Corning was awarded summary judgment in
California,  Connecticut,  Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi, New Jersey,
New York,  Pennsylvania,  Tennessee,  and Dallas,  Harris and Travis Counties in
Texas, thereby dismissing approximately 7,000 state cases. In Louisiana, Corning
was  awarded  summary  judgment  dismissing  all  claims  by  plaintiffs  and  a
cross-claim  by Dow  Chemical on February 21,  1997.  On February 11, 1998,  the
intermediate appeals court in Louisiana vacated this judgment as premature.  The
Louisiana  cases were  transferred  to the United States  District Court for the
Eastern  District of Michigan,  Southern  Division  (Michigan  Federal Court) to
which  substantially  all breast implant cases were  transferred in 1997. In the
Michigan  Federal  Court,  Corning is named as a defendant in  approximately  70
pending cases (including some cases with multiple claimants), in addition to the
transferred  Louisiana  cases. The Michigan Federal Court heard Corning's motion
for summary  judgment on February  27, 1998,  but has not ruled.  Based upon the
information  developed  to date and  recognizing  that the  outcome  of  complex
litigation  is  uncertain,  management  believes  that the risk of a  materially
adverse result in the implant  litigation against Corning is remote and believes
the implant  litigation against Corning will be resolved without material impact
on Corning's financial statements.

Federal Securities Cases. A federal securities class action lawsuit was filed in
1992 against Corning and certain individual  defendants by a class of purchasers
of Corning stock who allege  misrepresentations  and omissions of material facts
relative to the silicone gel breast implant  business  conducted by Dow Corning.
This  action is pending in the United  States  District  Court for the  Southern
District of New York. The class consists of those purchasers of Corning stock in
the period from June 14, 1989, to January 13, 1992,  who allegedly  purchased at
inflated prices due to the non-disclosure or concealment of material information
and were damaged when  Corning's  stock price declined in January 1992 after the
Food and Drug Administration  (FDA) requested a moratorium on Dow Corning's sale
of silicone gel implants. No amount of damages is specified in the complaint. In
1997, the Court  dismissed the individual  defendants from the case. In December
1998,  Corning filed a motion for summary  judgment  requesting  that all claims
against  it  be  dismissed.   Plaintiffs   requested  the  opportunity  to  take
depositions before responding to the motion for summary judgment.  The discovery
process is  continuing  and the Court has set no  schedule  to address the still
pending  summary  judgment  motion.  Corning  intends to continue to defend this
action vigorously.  Based upon the information developed to date and recognizing
that the  outcome of  litigation  is  uncertain,  management  believes  that the
likelihood of a materially adverse verdict is remote.

In  December  2001 and  January  2002,  Corning  and three of its  officers  and
directors were named defendants and served in four different  lawsuits  alleging
violations of the U.S.  securities  laws in connection  with Corning's  November
2000 offering of $2.7 billion zero coupon convertible  debentures,  due November
2015 and 30 million  shares of common  stock.  These four  lawsuits,  as well as
others filed with the court and not yet served, are pending in the United States
District  Court  for the  Western  District  of New York and seek  class  action
status.  Corning  has not yet  answered  these  lawsuits  and  there has been no
determination if they will proceed as a class action or who will be lead counsel
for plaintiffs.  Management is prepared to defend these lawsuits vigorously and,
recognizing that the outcome of litigation is uncertain,  believes it has strong
defenses to the claims alleged in the complaints.

Shin Etsu Quartz  Products  Company.  In July 1999 and February 2000,  Shin Etsu
Quartz  Products  Company  filed two patent suits in Japan  against  Corning for
alleged patent  infringement of two patents  relating to the properties of fused
silica materials used in the optical  components of stepper machines.  The suits
request  damages and an injunction  preventing  sales of infringing  products in
Japan. Corning has denied infringement,  has argued that the patents are invalid
or  unenforceable,  and has filed a separate  action to invalidate the second of
the two patents. In June 2001, the Japanese court ordered settlement discussions
involving both patents in suit. In late September  2001, Shin Etsu withdrew from
these  discussions  and has requested  that the Court rule on the matters before
it. Corning intends to defend these suits  vigorously.  While  recognizing  that
litigation  is inherently  uncertain,  based upon the  information  developed to
date,  management  believes  that  Corning  has strong  defenses  to Shin Etsu's
claims.

Hereaus  Quarzglass GmbH. In July 2001,  Hereaus  Quarzglass GmbH filed a patent
infringement suit in Germany against Corning for alleged patent  infringement of
a European patent  relating to certain  properties of fused silica glass used in
the optical  components of stepper  machines.  The suit requests damages and for
Corning to refrain  from  importing or selling  infringing  products in Germany.
Management  believes  that the  Hereaus  patent is either not  infringed,  or is
invalid.   Management  is  prepared  to  defend  this  action   vigorously  and,
recognizing that the outcome of litigation is uncertain,  believes it has strong
defenses to the Hereaus claims. Corning also filed an action in December 2001 in
U.S.  federal  court seeking a ruling that the U.S.  counterpart  to the Hereaus
patent  (jointly  owned with Shin Etsu in the U.S.) be declared  invalid and not
infringed.  Hereaus  and Corning  have had  settlement  discussions  and Corning
management is optimistic that the matter can be resolved  amicably.  Management,
however, is prepared to defend this action vigorously and,  recognizing that the
outcome of  litigation  is  uncertain,  believes  it has strong  defenses to the
Hereaus claims.

                                       9

<PAGE>

Pittsburgh Corning Corporation. Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. each own 50% of
the capital stock of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC). PCC and several other
defendants  have been  named in  numerous  lawsuits  involving  claims  alleging
personal  injury from  exposure to asbestos.  On April 16,  2000,  PCC filed for
Chapter 11  reorganization in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western
District of  Pennsylvania.  As of the  bankruptcy  filing,  PCC had in excess of
140,000  open  claims  and now has in  excess of  240,000  open  claims.  In the
bankruptcy court, PCC obtained a preliminary  injunction against the prosecution
of asbestos  actions against its two shareholders to afford the parties a period
of time (the Injunction  Period) in which to negotiate a plan of  reorganization
for PCC. The Injunction Period has been extended until April 15, 2002. Under the
terms of the Bankruptcy Court's Order, PCC, PPG Industries and Corning will have
90 days  following  expiration  of the  Injunction  Period to seek  removal  and
transfer  of  stayed  cases  that  have  not  been  resolved  through  a plan of
reorganization.  As a result of PCC's  bankruptcy  filing,  Corning  recorded an
after-tax  charge of $36  million  in the first  quarter  of 2000 to impair  its
entire investment in PCC and discontinued recognition of equity earnings. At the
time PCC filed for bankruptcy protection, there were approximately 12,400 claims
pending against Corning alleging various theories of liability based on exposure
to  PCC's  asbestos  products.  Although  the  outcome  of  litigation  and  the
bankruptcy case is uncertain,  management  believes that the separate  corporate
status  of  PCC  will  continue  to  be  upheld.  Management  is  continuing  to
investigate  Corning's  options for  defending  claims  against it,  which might
include  vigorously  defending  itself  on all  fronts,  or  exploring  a global
settlement  through the  bankruptcy  process.  It is probable that there will be
intensive  negotiations  throughout the first half of 2002  concerning  terms of
PCC's plan of reorganization,  including whether or not Corning and its insurers
may participate by making a contribution  in exchange for a release.  Management
cannot  estimate  the  probability  that  Corning  will be able to secure such a
release upon terms and conditions  satisfactory to Corning and its insurers. The
range of cost for these options (net of  insurance)  cannot be estimated at this
time.  Corning is named in  approximately  14,000 other cases alleging  injuries
from  asbestos and those cases have been covered by insurance  without  material
impact to Corning to date. Although asbestos litigation is inherently difficult,
and the outcome of litigation is uncertain,  management  believes  these matters
will be resolved  without a materially  adverse  impact on  Corning's  financial
position.  If Corning and its insurers agree to a global settlement  through the
bankruptcy process, such outcome may be material to the results of operations of
the period in which such costs, if any, are recognized.

Astrium. In December of 2000, Astrium,  SAS and Astrium,  Ltd. filed a complaint
for negligence in the United States  District Court for the Central  District of
California against TRW, Inc., Pilkington Optronics Inc., Corning NetOptix, Inc.,
OFC Corporation  and Optical Filter  Corporation  claiming  damages in excess of
$150 million.  The complaint alleges that certain cover glasses for solar arrays
used to generate  electricity  from solar energy on satellites sold by Astrium's
corporate  successor  were  negligently  coated by NetOptix or its  subsidiaries
(prior to  Corning's  acquisition  of NetOptix) in such a way that the amount of
electricity  the satellite can produce and their  effective life were materially
reduced.  Corning  has denied  that the  coatings  produced  by  NetOptix or its
subsidiaries  caused the damage alleged in the complaint,  or that it is legally
liable for any damages which Astrium may have experienced.  Formal discovery has
just  begun,  few  depositions  have been  taken,  and it is too early to form a
definitive  opinion  about  the  outcome  of  the  litigation.  Based  upon  the
information  developed to date and recognizing that the outcome of litigation is
uncertain,  management  believes that there are strong  defenses to these claims
and  believes  they  will be  resolved  without  material  impact  on  Corning's
financial statements.


                                       10

<PAGE>

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
------------------------------------------------------------

None


                                       11

<PAGE>

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This  information  is included in Note 15 (Common  Shareholders'  Equity) to the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  Quarterly  Operating  Results  and Related
Market  Data,  Five  Years  in  Review -  Historical  Comparison,  and  Investor
Information, appearing on pages 67 and 75 through 78.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
--------------------------------

This  information  is included in Five Years in Review -  Historical  Comparison
appearing on pages 76 and 77.


Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Corning's  financial  results in 2001  deteriorated  significantly  from 2000 as
capital spending in the telecommunications  industry diminished,  the demand for
premium fiber  declined  considerably  in the second quarter and the downturn in
the U.S.  economy  in the latter  half of the year  negatively  impacted  all of
Corning's  businesses.  As a  result,  sales and  earnings  fell in all three of
Corning's  operating  segments.  Corning impaired  goodwill and other intangible
assets in its photonic technologies business totaling approximately $4.8 billion
and recorded  $333 million to  write-down  excess and obsolete  inventory.  As a
result of the declining  performance and  expectations,  management took several
steps  throughout the year to reduce its cost structure.  Those actions included
the following:

-    incurred  pre-tax  charges  of $961  million  related  to actions to reduce
     overall  headcount by approximately  12,000 employees and impair long-lived
     assets  including  the  closing of seven  major  plants,  primarily  in the
     Telecommunications and Advanced Materials Segments,
-    idled fiber manufacturing facilities for most of the fourth quarter, and
-    reduced capital expenditures in 2001 from the originally planned investment
     of $2.5 billion to $1.8 billion and lowered the capital  budget for 2002 to
     under $500 million.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated  net sales for 2001 were $6.3  billion,  a 12% decrease  from 2000.
Excluding  the  impact of  acquisitions,  Corning's  consolidated  sales in 2001
decreased  16%  compared  to  2000.  Sales  declines  for 2001  occurred  in all
operating segments, but were most pronounced in the  Telecommunications  Segment
where  sales  fell 14%.  Consolidated  sales for 2000 were $7.1  billion,  a 50%
increase over 1999 sales of $4.7 billion. Excluding acquisitions,  sales in 2000
increased 36% over 1999.

In 2001, Corning incurred a loss from continuing  operations of $5.5 billion, or
$5.89 per  share,  compared  with  income  from  continuing  operations  of $409
million,  or $0.46 per share, in 2000 and income from  continuing  operations of
$511 million, or $0.65 per share, in 1999.

The 2001 loss is largely  attributable to a charge of approximately $4.8 billion
($4.7 billion  after-tax) in the second  quarter to impair  goodwill and certain
other intangible assets of the photonic technologies business. Corning's results
for the year were also  impacted  by charges for  restructuring  actions of $961
million ($590 million  after-tax and minority  interest) which included  charges
for headcount  reductions,  exit costs and  impairment  of plant and  equipment.
Further  discussion  of these  charges  begins under  Impairment of Goodwill and
Other  Intangible  Assets,  Restructuring  Actions  and  Notes  4 and  5 to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements.  Corning recorded an operating charge of $273
million ($184 million  after-tax) in the second quarter to write-down excess and
obsolete inventory,  primarily in the photonic  technologies  business.  Corning
recorded operating charges totaling $178 million ($109 million after-tax) in the
fourth quarter for the following:

-    $90  million  related to the release of  restrictions  on shares of Corning
     common stock held by employees,
-    $60 million to  write-down  excess and  obsolete  inventory in the photonic
     technologies business, and
-    $28 million to write-down an investment in intellectual property.

                                       12

<PAGE>

Income and earnings per share from continuing  operations  declined 20% and 29%,
respectively,  between  2000  and 1999  primarily  due to  substantial  non-cash
acquisition-related  charges  incurred in 2000.  The charges  included gains and
losses on the disposition and restructuring of businesses,  purchased in-process
research and development (IPRD) charges, other  acquisition-related  charges and
impairment losses. In addition, as a result of its acquisition strategy, Corning
began to record significant amounts of amortization of purchased intangibles and
goodwill  in 2000.  These  amounts  increased  in 2001  despite  the  impairment
charges. See Non-Segment Results for a discussion of these items.

Corning believes a better  understanding of the changes in its operating results
is provided by comparing  its  operating  results on a pro forma basis.  Corning
retroactively  changed  its  definition  of pro forma net  income in the  fourth
quarter of 2001 to include the  amortization  of  purchased  intangibles  in the
calculation  of pro forma net income and pro forma  diluted  earnings per share.
Pro forma  results for 2000 and 1999 have been  restated  for the change and are
presented  below.  Pro forma net income excludes  impairment and amortization of
goodwill,   impairment  of  other  intangible  assets,   restructuring  actions,
purchased  IPRD  charges,   one-time   acquisition-related   charges  and  other
nonrecurring  items.  This measure is not in accordance  with, or an alternative
for,  accounting  principles  generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP) and may not be  consistent  with  measures  used by other  companies.  It
should be considered supplemental data.

Pro forma  net  income in 2001  totaled  $157  million,  or $0.17 per  share,  a
decrease of 85% and 86%,  respectively,  from 2000. Pro forma net income in 2000
was $1.1 billion, or $1.22 per share, an increase of 106% and 83%, respectively,
over 1999.  Corning  calculates  pro forma net income  from  (loss)  income from
continuing operations as follows (after-tax and minority interest; in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                           Years ended December 31,
                                                                  --------------------------------------------
                                                                       2001          2000              1999
                                                                       ----          ----              ----

<S>                                                               <C>             <C>              <C>
(Loss) income from continuing operations                          $  (5,498)      $   409          $    511
     Nonoperating gains                                                                (4)               (9)
     Amortization of goodwill                                           344           202                18
     In-process research and development charges                                      400
     Other acquisition-related charges                                                 43
     Impairment and restructuring charges                             5,311                               1
     Gain in equity in earnings of associated companies                               (11)
     Impairment of equity investment                                                   36
                                                                  ---------       -------          --------

Pro forma net income                                              $     157       $ 1,075          $    521
                                                                  =========       =======          ========

Pro forma diluted earnings per share                              $    0.17       $  1.22          $   0.66
                                                                  =========       =======          ========
</TABLE>


The  decrease in pro forma net income in 2001 was  primarily  due to lower sales
volumes,  charges for  inventory  write-downs  and stock  compensation  charges.
Corning's results for 2001 weakened  significantly  over the course of the year.
Quarterly  revenues  and  pro  forma  net  income  (loss)  were as  follows  (in
millions):

                                  Qtr. 1     Qtr. 2       Qtr. 3      Qtr. 4
                                  ------     ------       ------      ------

Revenue                           $1,921     $1,868       $1,509      $ 974
Pro forma net income (loss)       $  268     $   74       $   76      $(261)

The  first  half of the year was  impacted  as  capital  spending  in the  North
American  long-haul sector declined,  thus lowering demand for premium fiber and
photonic products used in new networks.  The situation  intensified in the third
quarter as carriers in North America and other regions began to delay  purchases
of single-mode fiber, particularly in September.  Finally,  Corning's businesses
in Advanced  Materials  and  Information  Display  also began  experiencing  the
effects of a slowing U.S.  economy as the events of September 11th disrupted the
markets and the economy even further.

                                       13

<PAGE>

OUTLOOK

Corning  believes  that  2002  will  be a  very  challenging  year  as  industry
conditions  experienced in the second half of 2001 extend into 2002.  Management
expects  first  quarter  revenues  to  approximate  the fourth  quarter of 2001.
Management  does not expect recovery to begin until late 2002, or early 2003. As
a result,  management  expects  sales for 2002 to be  significantly  below  2001
levels and anticipates  Corning will continue to incur losses in the short-term.
Corning  expects to realize  cost savings from  restructuring  actions  taken in
2001; however,  these improvements may be offset by pricing pressures in several
key businesses.

Management  believes  Corning has ample  liquidity to meet its funding needs for
2002.  Corning  finished  the year  with  $2.2  billion  in cash and  short-term
investments   and  an  unused   revolving   credit  facility  of  $2.0  billion.
Management's  focus in 2002 will be to reduce  Corning's  cash  requirements  to
manageable levels and restore its operations to profitability.

Corning's  long-term strategy remains  unchanged.  Corning will continue to make
significant  investments in research and  development  for all segments and will
invest  in  the  expansion  of the  liquid  crystal  display  business  and  the
development of diesel substrates during this industry downturn.

IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

During the first half of 2001, Corning experienced a significant decrease in the
rate of growth of its  Telecommunications  Segment,  primarily  in the  photonic
technologies business,  due to a dramatic decline in infrastructure  spending in
the telecommunications  industry.  During the second quarter, major customers in
the photonic  technologies  business  reduced their order forecasts and canceled
orders  already  placed.  As a result,  management  determined  that the  growth
prospects of this business were significantly less than previously  expected and
those of historical periods.

Corning reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets,  including goodwill
and other intangible assets,  when events or changes in circumstances occur that
indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable.  As a result of
the business  conditions noted above,  Corning  concluded such an assessment was
required for its photonic technologies  business in the second quarter.  Corning
assesses  recoverability  of the carrying value based upon  cumulative  expected
future pre-tax cash flows  (undiscounted  and without  interest  charges) of the
related operations.

As a  result  of this  test,  Corning  determined  that the  long-lived  assets,
including goodwill and other intangibles acquired from Pirelli in December 2000,
as well as those of the unit into which  NetOptix  Corporation  (acquired in May
2000)  had  been  integrated,  were  not  recoverable.  Corning's  policy  is to
write-down long-lived assets to fair value in such circumstances.

Management  estimated  fair value using  several  techniques.  While each method
generated  comparable fair values,  management  adjusted the assets to estimates
based on average  multiples of  forecasted  revenues and earnings of  comparable
publicly  traded  companies  with  operations  in the optical  component  market
segment.

In the second  quarter,  Corning  recorded  pre-tax charges of $4,648 million to
impair a  significant  portion of  goodwill  and $116  million  to impair  other
intangible assets. Of the total charge of $4,764 million, $3,154 million related
to the acquisition of the Pirelli optical  components and devices  business (the
Pirelli  transaction) and $1,610 million related to goodwill  resulting from the
acquisition of NetOptix Corporation.

RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS

Corning has approved and executed several  restructuring  actions throughout the
year. These actions and the charges relating to them are described below.

In the first quarter of 2001,  Corning  reduced its  workforce by  approximately
3,300  positions,  primarily  in the  photonic  technologies  and  hardware  and
equipment   businesses.   These  workforce  reductions  included  mostly  hourly
production  workers and resulted in minimal  severance  charges.  In April 2001,
Corning  completed an  additional  workforce  reduction of  approximately  1,000
positions  in  photonic   technologies,   including  both  hourly  and  salaried
employees.  The second quarter reductions resulted in a restructuring  charge of
$8 million ($5 million after-tax).

                                       14

<PAGE>

In the third quarter of 2001,  additional  actions were approved and undertaken,
primarily in the Telecommunications Segment, which included the following:

-    closure of three  manufacturing  facilities  in the  photonic  technologies
     business, resulting in the elimination of approximately 800 positions, and
-    elimination of approximately 2,900 positions worldwide in the optical fiber
     and cable  business.  This  action  included a voluntary  early  retirement
     program for certain employees along with involuntary separations.

As a result of these  actions,  Corning  recorded a total charge of $339 million
($222 million  after-tax) which included a restructuring  charge of $103 million
and a charge to impair plant and equipment of $236 million in the third quarter.
The restructuring  charge included $6 million for net pension and postretirement
benefit curtailment charges.

In  response  to the  continued  deteriorating  business  condition,  management
approved and recorded the following restructuring actions in the fourth quarter:

-    closure or  consolidation  of several  manufacturing  locations  as well as
     smaller businesses across all operating segments,
-    discontinuation  of  its  initiative  in  Corning   Microarray   Technology
     products, part of Corning's life sciences business, and
-    further  headcount  reduction of  approximately  4,000 positions across all
     businesses,  research and staff organizations.  This action also included a
     selective  voluntary early retirement  program for certain  employees along
     with involuntary separations.

As a result of actions taken in the fourth quarter, Corning recorded a charge in
the quarter of $614 million ($363 million after-tax and minority interest) which
included a restructuring charge of $308 million and a charge to impair plant and
equipment of $306 million.  The  restructuring  charge  included $35 million for
pension and postretirement  termination benefits and $25 million for net pension
and postretirement benefit curtailment charges.

The  carrying  value of a  long-lived  asset  is  considered  impaired  when the
expected  separately  identifiable  undiscounted  cash flows from that asset are
less  than  the  carrying  value  of the  asset.  The  impairment  charges  were
determined  based on the amount by which the  carrying  value  exceeded the fair
market value of the asset.

A significant portion of the assets impaired was recently acquired,  or built in
connection with capacity  expansions in  anticipation of future demand.  Most of
the  impaired  facilities  are  currently  available  for sale,  others  will be
demolished.  The impaired equipment will be auctioned,  sold, or disposed during
2002.

The facilities  closed in the year primarily relate to the photonics and optical
fiber and cable  businesses  that Corning is not exiting.  The operations  being
exited comprise the majority of the lighting business of the Advanced  Materials
Segment.  This  business is not  material  to  Corning's  revenues or  financial
results.

In summary,  Corning's  restructuring  actions  totaled  $961 million in pre-tax
charges for the year ended  December 31, 2001,  of which $95 million  related to
exit costs primarily for lease  termination and contract  cancellation  charges.
Approximately one third of this total charge is expected to be paid in cash. The
total number of positions  eliminated was  approximately  12,000. As of December
31, 2001,  approximately 10,100 of the 12,000 employees had been separated under
the plans.  Corning  expects to realize  savings of  approximately  $400 million
annually  beginning  in 2002 as a result  of these  restructuring  actions.  The
savings  are  expected  to be  realized  primarily  in cost of sales and also in
selling,  general and  administrative  expenses and  research,  development  and
engineering expenses.

                                       15

<PAGE>

Non-cash  charges for employee  related  costs were $66 million with $35 million
for  pension and  postretirement  termination  benefits  and $31 million for net
pension and postretirement benefit curtailment charges. Curtailment charges were
recorded primarily due to the decrease in expected future years of service.  The
following  table   illustrates  the  charges,   activity  and  balances  of  the
restructuring reserve as of December 31, 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(In millions, except headcounts)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Non-            Net Cash         Remaining
                                                 Total          Cash            Payments         Reserve at
                                                Charges        Charges           in 2001     December 31, 2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                            <C>            <C>               <C>              <C>
Restructuring charges:
Employee related costs                         $    324       $      66         $     60         $     198
Other charges                                        95                               17                78
                                               -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total restructuring charges                $    419       $      66         $     77         $     276
                                               -----------------------------------------------------------

Impairment of long-lived assets:
Assets held for use                            $     46       $      46
Assets held for disposal                            496             496
                                               ------------------------
    Total impairment charges                   $    542       $     542
                                               ------------------------

Total restructuring actions                    $    961       $     608         $     77         $     276
                                               ===========================================================

After-tax and minority interest                $    590
                                               ========
</TABLE>

The  following  table  illustrates  the charge for  restructuring  actions as it
relates to Corning's operating segments:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Charges for restructuring actions
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                   Corporate
                                                                                                   Functions
                                                Telecom-       Advanced         Information        Including        Total
                                               munications     Materials          Display          Research        Charges
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                            <C>            <C>               <C>              <C>            <C>
Charges for restructuring actions              $   640        $     94          $    36          $    191       $    961
                                               =========================================================================
</TABLE>

The following table  illustrates the headcount  reduction  amongst U.S.  Hourly,
U.S. Salaried and Non-U.S. positions:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Headcount reduction
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               U.S. Hourly     U.S. Salaried      Non-U.S.           Total
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                               <C>             <C>              <C>              <C>
Headcount reduction                               6,000           3,100            2,900            12,000
                                               ===========================================================

</TABLE>

OPERATING SEGMENTS

Corning groups its products into three operating  segments:  Telecommunications,
Advanced Materials and Information  Display.  Corning also includes the earnings
of equity  affiliates  that are  closely  associated  with  Corning's  operating
segments in segment net income.  Corning retroactively changed its definition of
segment net income in the fourth quarter of 2001 to include the  amortization of
purchased  intangibles.  In addition  during the quarter  ended March 31,  2001,
Corning realigned one product line from the Advanced  Materials Segment into the
Telecommunications Segment. Segment results for 2000 and 1999 have been restated
for the changes and are  presented  below.  Segment  amounts  exclude  revenues,
expenses and equity earnings not specifically identifiable to segments.  Segment
net income excludes impairment and amortization of goodwill, impairment of other
intangible assets, restructuring actions, purchased IPRD charges, other one-time
acquisition-related charges and other nonrecurring items. This measure is not in
accordance  with  GAAP and may not be  consistent  with  measures  used by other
companies.

                                       16

<PAGE>

Corning  prepared the financial  results for its three  operating  segments on a
basis that is consistent with the manner in which Corning management  internally
disaggregates  financial  information  to assist in  making  internal  operating
decisions.   Corning  has  allocated  certain  common  expenses  among  segments
differently  than it would for stand  alone  financial  information  prepared in
accordance  with GAAP.  The  nonrecurring  items noted above are  excluded  from
segment net income, but are described more fully in Non-Segment Results.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Telecommunications
(In millions)                                                            2001              2000                1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                   <C>              <C>                 <C>
Net sales                                                             $ 4,458          $  5,186            $  2,987
Research, development and engineering expenses                        $   474          $    395            $    262
Interest expense                                                      $   104          $     70            $     59
Segment (loss) earnings before minority interest
   and equity earnings                                                $   (93)         $    692            $    341
     Minority interest in losses (earnings) of subsidiaries                                   3                 (34)
     Equity in earnings of associated companies                            12                 1                  15
                                                                      -------          --------            --------
Segment net (loss) income                                             $   (81)         $    696            $    322
                                                                      =======          ========            ========

Segment (loss) earnings before minority interest and
   equity earnings as a percentage of segment sales                      (2.1)%            13.3%               11.4%
Segment net (loss) income as a percentage of segment sales               (1.8)%            13.4%               10.8%
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The  Telecommunications  Segment  produces  optical  fiber  and  cable,  optical
hardware and equipment,  photonic modules and components and optical  networking
devices for the worldwide telecommunications industry.

2001 vs. 2000

Sales in the Telecommunications Segment decreased 14% from 2000 to $4.5 billion.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the sales decline was 19%. The decrease in
sales was primarily due to sales volume decreases in most businesses  throughout
the segment as capital  spending in the  telecommunications  industry  decreased
significantly.  Segment net income fell precipitously  compared to 2000's strong
results  as net income in the  optical  fiber and cable  business  was more than
offset by losses in all other  businesses.  The loss of sales  volume in premium
fiber and  photonic  products  reduced  gross  margins and the segment  incurred
operating  charges totaling $333 million ($221 million  after-tax) to write-down
excess and obsolete inventory, including estimated purchase commitments, further
lowering gross margin percentages.

Sales in the  optical  fiber and cable  business in 2001  remained  flat at $2.9
billion compared with 2000, although sales declined  significantly in the fourth
quarter  of 2001.  Excluding  the  impact of  acquisitions,  sales  declined  4%
compared  to 2000.  The lack of growth  reflects  the loss of volume in  premium
products  beginning in the second quarter due to the decline in long-haul demand
as capital spending for network  buildouts  diminished and the business began to
experience  volume decreases in sales of single-mode fiber in the third quarter.
As a result,  most  fiber  manufacturing  facilities  were  idled in the  fourth
quarter.  Overall,  fiber and cable volume decreased  approximately  15% for the
year as a result of an  increase of  approximately  30% in the first half of the
year  offset  by a  decrease  of  approximately  50% in  the  second  half.  The
weighted-average  price for Corning's  optical fiber and cable products remained
relatively stable compared to 2000 as higher prices were offset by significantly
decreased volumes for premium  products.  Premium fiber as a percentage of total
fiber demand was approximately 20% in 2001.

Net income for the optical fiber and cable  business  decreased over 5% compared
to 2000 as the loss of sales volume in premium  products was partially offset by
increased  sales of lower margin  single-mode  products.  In response to reduced
demand for fiber  products,  Corning  announced  it will  permanently  close its
optical fiber operations in Deeside,  North Wales and its cabling  operations in
Saskatoon,  Canada in  addition to  temporarily  ceasing  production  at smaller
cabling facilities.

Sales  in the  hardware  and  equipment  business  declined  20% in 2001 to $817
million compared to $1.02 billion in 2000. Excluding the impact of acquisitions,
sales declined 28% compared to 2000. The decrease was due to lower sales volumes
as capital spending in the cable  television  industry fell  significantly  from
prior year levels.  Business performance decreased significantly to a small loss
in 2001 due to  considerably  lower sales  volumes.  This  business  reduced its
headcount during the year and closed a small manufacturing facility.

                                       17

<PAGE>

The photonic  technologies business manufactures photonic modules and components
primarily  for  the  optical   amplification   market.  Sales  in  the  photonic
technologies  business  declined  over 50% to $462 million  compared  with $1.04
billion in 2000. The sales decrease reflects significant declines in orders from
major   customers   caused  by  the   decrease   in  capital   spending  in  the
telecommunications  industry. The business incurred a significant operating loss
for the year as a result of lower sales volumes, excess capacity, a higher fixed
cost  structure and charges for excess and obsolete  inventory in the second and
fourth quarters.

During the second quarter, major customers in the photonic technologies business
reduced their order forecasts and cancelled orders already placed.  As a result,
management  determined that certain products were not likely to be sold in their
product life cycle.  Corning recorded a charge to write-down excess and obsolete
inventory,  including  estimated  purchase  commitments,  of $273 million  ($184
million  after-tax) in cost of sales in the second quarter of 2001. The business
recorded an  additional  charge of $60 million  ($37 million  after-tax)  in the
fourth quarter as a result of lower revenue forecasts for 2002.

Corning  has,  or is in the  process  of  disposing  all such  inventory  except
approximately  $100 million.  Corning has retained and isolated this  inventory,
and in the unlikely event that product is sold,  Corning will fully disclose the
impact on its margins.

Corning announced a downsizing of the photonic  technologies business and closed
the following three manufacturing facilities in 2001:

-    Benton Park facility in Benton Township, PA,
-    Corning Lasertron's facility in Nashua, NH, and
-    Monroe Park manufacturing and development operations in Henrietta, NY.

In addition,  Corning scaled back its photonic technologies  operations in Erwin
Park,  NY  and  the   remainder  of  its  photonic   facilities  to  adjust  its
manufacturing  capacity levels and headcount to lower revenue expectations.  The
business reduced its headcount  approximately 75% from peak employment levels in
2001.

The controls and connectors business manufactures control systems,  switches and
encoders.  Sales in this business decreased 15% to $205 million in 2001 compared
to $241  million in 2000.  Lower  sales  volume was the  primary  reason for the
decline due to the weak U.S.  economy.  The business  incurred an  insignificant
loss  for the  year  compared  to an  insignificant  profit  in 2000  due to the
depressed volume.

The optical networking business manufactures  wavelength management products and
optical switch modules. The business began shipping products to customers in the
third quarter of 2000.  Sales for 2001 were $38 million and comprised  mostly of
dynamic  spectral  equalizers,  compared to partial year sales of $11 million in
2000.  The loss in 2001 was greater than 2000  primarily  due to the $28 million
pre-tax  write-down  of an  investment in  intellectual  property.  In addition,
volumes were lower than expected and development spending increased.

Sales to Corning's  largest  customer in 2001 were under 10% of consolidated and
Telecommunications Segment sales.

2000 vs. 1999

Sales in the Telecommunications Segment increased 74% over 1999 to $5.2 billion.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions,  sales growth was 50%. The sales growth in
the segment was led  primarily  by volume  gains in the optical  fiber and cable
business,  hardware and equipment and photonic technologies businesses.  Segment
net income more than doubled in 2000 compared to 1999. The  percentage  increase
in segment net income  exceeded  the  increase in sales,  reflecting  an overall
increase  in  segment  gross  margin  percentage  and a  decrease  in  research,
development and engineering as a percentage of sales.

Sales in the optical fiber and cable  business in 2000  increased  approximately
70% over 1999 to  approximately  $2.9  billion.  The increase in sales  resulted
chiefly  from the impact of  acquisitions  and strong  volume  gains for LEAF(R)
optical  fiber.  Volume  growth  continued to be driven by  regional,  local and
long-haul  telephone  companies  and  cable  television   operators,   including
significant  European  carriers  benefiting  from continued  deregulation of the
telecommunications industry throughout Europe. Approximately $460 million of the
increase in optical fiber and cable sales primarily  resulted from the following
acquisitions:

-    the  acquisition  of the  remaining  50%  interest  in Siecor  GmbH and the
     cabling business  previously owned by Siemens in the first quarter of 2000,
     and
-    the  acquisition  of the  optical  cable  business  from BICC,  plc and the
     remaining 50% interest in Optical  Waveguides  Australia,  Pty. Ltd. in the
     second quarter of 1999.

                                       18

<PAGE>

Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, sales in the optical fiber and cable
business  increased  42% for the year  principally  due to sales volume gains of
almost 50%,  reflecting  continued  strong  demand for  Corning's  premium fiber
products.  Volume of premium fiber and cable products,  including Corning's LEAF
optical  fiber,  more than doubled over the same period in 1999.  Price declines
ranged  between 5% and 10% for  Corning's  optical  fiber and cable  products in
comparison with last year. The weighted-average optical fiber and cable price in
2000 remained relatively stable compared to 1999. The rate of price declines for
cabled  products  slowed   throughout  2000   commensurate  with  the  worldwide
tightening of optical fiber supply.

Net income from the optical fiber and cable business increased approximately 84%
in 2000  compared  to 1999.  The strong  earnings  performance  is due to volume
growth in high-data  rate products,  relatively  stable pricing and a shift to a
higher premium product mix.

Sales in the  telecommunications  hardware and equipment business increased over
82% in 2000 to approximately $1.02 billion. This increase resulted from a higher
sales volume of existing  products,  the Siemens  transaction  and  particularly
strong demand from cable television customers, offset in part by price declines.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, sales increased 57% over 1999. Overall net
income almost doubled over 1999 largely due to sales volume increases.

Sales in the  photonic  technologies  business  more than  doubled  over 1999 to
approximately  $1.0 billion.  The business realized strong sales volume gains in
2000 led by new product sales,  growth in amplifier sales and acquisitions.  The
operating  performance in this business  improved in 2000 as the business became
solidly  profitable  due to  strong  volume,  productivity  gains  and more cost
efficient  access to pump lasers achieved  through the acquisition of Lasertron.
Corning  continued  to  invest  heavily  in  research  and  development  in this
business.

Sales in the  controls and  connectors  business  increased  14% in 2000 to $241
million. Net income from this business improved slightly,  moving from breakeven
in  1999  to  modest  profitability  in  2000,  primarily  due to  sales  volume
increases.

During  the  third  quarter  of 2000,  the  optical  networking  business  began
shipments of its  wavelength  management  products to customers.  Sales for 2000
were $11 million.  This business operated at a loss due to significant  research
and development investments.

Sales to Corning's  largest  customer  accounted  for  approximately  12% of the
Telecommunications  Segment sales in 2000,  including a  significant  portion of
total sales in the photonic technologies business, but under 10% of consolidated
sales.

Outlook:  Management  believes  the weak  conditions  in the  telecommunications
industry  experienced in the second part of 2001 will continue into 2002.  First
quarter sales are expected to approximate  fourth quarter 2001 levels;  however,
losses are expected to decrease somewhat due to restructuring  actions taken and
the absence of nonrecurring charges.

Management does not expect a recovery in this industry until late 2002, or early
2003. Corning  anticipates that recovery in this segment is dependent on capital
spending by network operators and cable television entities as they add fiber to
metro access  networks in the U.S., and on the level of demand in  international
markets.  As the industry  currently  has  significant  excess  capacity,  price
pressure is expected to continue throughout 2002.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Advanced Materials
(In millions)                                                                 2001             2000            1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                       <C>               <C>            <C>
Net sales                                                                 $    993          $ 1,021        $  1,025
Research, development and engineering expenses                            $    120          $   116        $     93
Interest expense                                                          $     25          $    18        $     23
Segment earnings before equity earnings                                   $     19          $    58        $     76
     Equity in earnings of associated companies                                 27               22              21
                                                                          --------          -------        --------
Segment net income                                                        $     46          $    80        $     97
                                                                          ========          =======        ========

Segment earnings before equity earnings as a
   percentage of segment sales                                                 1.9%             5.7%            7.4%
Segment net income as a percentage of segment sales                            4.6%             7.8%            9.5%
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The Advanced  Materials Segment  manufactures  specialized  products with unique
properties for customer applications  utilizing glass, glass ceramic and polymer
technologies.

                                       19

<PAGE>

2001 vs. 2000

Sales in 2001 for the Advanced  Materials  Segment  decreased 3% to $993 million
compared  to  sales  of  $1.02   billion  in  2000.   Excluding  the  impact  of
acquisitions,  sales declined 5%. Sales increases in the life sciences  business
were  more  than  offset  by  declines  in the  environmental  technologies  and
semiconductor materials businesses.  Segment net income also declined in 2001 as
the segment  recorded net income of $46 million  compared to $80 million in 2000
for a 43%  decrease.  The decline in  profitability  was primarily due to weaker
performance  by  the  environmental  technologies  and  semiconductor  materials
businesses  partially  offset  by  improved  performance  by the  life  sciences
business.

Sales in the environmental  technologies  business,  the largest business in the
segment and a manufacturer of catalytic  converter  substrates,  decreased 8% in
2001 to $379 million.  The business  experienced lower sales volumes compared to
2000 due to decreased  vehicle  production.  Volume growth in Asia was more than
offset by declining  volumes in North America and Europe.  Earnings for the year
were  down  almost  50%  primarily  due to lower  sales  volumes,  manufacturing
inefficiencies  related to the  introduction  of new ultra  thin wall  products,
excess capacity and start-up costs in South Africa and China.

In October 2001, Corning announced the approval of a new diesel emission control
product manufacturing  facility. The new plant will be located in Erwin, NY with
construction  to begin in 2002.  Initial  production  of  substrate  and  filter
products is expected in early 2004.

Sales in the life  sciences  business,  a supplier of advanced  microplates  and
other  laboratory  products,  increased  8%  over  2000  to  $267  million.  The
improvement  was primarily  due to an increase in sales volume.  Earnings in the
base business almost doubled over 2000 primarily due to a shift to higher margin
products  in sales  mix  along  with  improvements  in  manufacturing  costs and
selling, general and administrative  expenses.  Overall earnings in the business
were  diluted due to the  investment  in  microarray  technology  which  Corning
discontinued at the end of 2001.

Sales in Corning's other Advanced Materials businesses,  including semiconductor
materials  and  ophthalmic  products,  decreased  4% in 2001  to  $347  million.
Excluding the  acquisition  of Tropel in March 2001,  sales  decreased  11%. The
decrease  was due to softness  in the market for  ophthalmic  products  and high
purity fused silica. Earnings for the year were approximately breakeven and down
slightly  compared to 2000.  Lower sales volumes and  production  slowdowns were
partially  offset by a marginal  increase in equity  earnings from  Eurokera,  a
French based  manufacturer  of glass ceramic  cooktops,  resulting in comparable
earnings between years. Corning plans to exit the lighting and tubing businesses
in  2002,  and  has  announced  the  shutdown  of  manufacturing  facilities  in
Greenville, OH and Corning, NY.

2000 vs. 1999

Sales in the Advanced Materials Segment were relatively flat compared to 1999 at
approximately  $1.0  billion,   chiefly  due  to  growth  in  the  environmental
technologies  business,  which  was  offset  by  a  sales  decline  due  to  the
divestiture  of the Quanterra  business in January 2000 and flat  performance in
other Advanced  Materials  businesses.  Excluding the impact of the divestiture,
sales  improved  6%.  Segment  net  income  declined  17% in  2000  as  earnings
improvements  in other Advanced  Materials  businesses  were more than offset by
decreased  performance  in  environmental  technologies  and life sciences while
equity earnings remained flat.

Sales in the environmental  technologies  business increased almost 3% over 1999
to $411 million.  The growth in sales  resulted from a strong global auto market
in 2000 and increased market penetration of Corning's thin-wall products coupled
with increases in the base substrate  business that was partially  offset by the
weak Euro.  Earnings in this business decreased  approximately 12%,  principally
due to  start-up  costs of new  plants in South  Africa  and China and  elevated
research and development spending on diesel substrate programs.

Sales in the  life  sciences  business  of $248  million  were  down  over 6% in
comparison  to 1999 as the business  continued to see a shift in spending in the
pharmaceutical  industry  from  traditional  products to genomics.  The business
reported a small loss in 2000 compared to a modest profit in 1999.  The loss was
primarily  due to an  increased  commitment  to  research  and  development  and
marketing costs  associated with the launch of Corning's  microarray  technology
products  in the third  quarter of 2000.  Excluding  start-up  costs  related to
microarrays, earnings were flat compared to 1999.

                                       20

<PAGE>

Sales in Corning's other Advanced  Materials  businesses  were relatively  flat,
compared to 1999, at approximately $362 million. The flat performance was due to
elevated  sales  of high  purity  fused  silica  products  in the  semiconductor
materials  business,  which was  offset  by the  impact  of the  divestiture  of
Quanterra in January.  Excluding the  divestiture  of Quanterra,  sales improved
over 23%. Earnings from these businesses more than doubled over 1999 due largely
to increased volume and despite flat performances from Eurokera and Keraglass, a
French based manufacturer of glass ceramic cooktops.

Outlook: The environmental technologies businesses experienced slow sales at the
end of 2001 and that trend is expected to continue  into 2002.  Sales  growth in
environmental  technologies  will be dependent upon an overall economic recovery
in the U.S., as well as Europe,  evidenced by increased vehicle production.  The
life  sciences  business is expected to continue its 2001 growth trends in 2002.
The other businesses in this segment  experienced sales declines over the latter
half of the year and that trend is  expected to  continue  into 2002.  Growth in
other advanced materials businesses will depend on recovery in the semiconductor
materials business and the general economy.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Information Display
(In millions)                                                                  2001            2000            1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                         <C>               <C>            <C>
Net sales                                                                   $   800           $ 894          $  701
Research, development and engineering expenses                              $    40           $  29          $   23
Interest expense                                                            $    23           $  19          $   11
Segment earnings before minority interest and equity earnings               $    44           $ 114          $   58
     Minority interest in earnings of subsidiaries                                              (27)            (23)
     Equity in earnings of associated companies                                 105             145              68
                                                                            -------           -----          ------
Segment net income                                                          $   149           $ 232          $  103
                                                                            =======           =====          ======

Segment earnings before minority interest and
   equity earnings as a percentage of segment sales                             5.5%           12.8%            8.3%
Segment net income as a percentage of segment sales                            18.6%           26.0%           14.7%
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The Information  Display Segment  manufactures  liquid crystal display glass for
flat  panel  displays  (display  technologies),  glass  panels and  funnels  for
televisions and cathode ray tubes (conventional video components), and precision
lens assemblies for projection video systems.

2001 vs. 2000

Sales in the Information  Display Segment  decreased 11% in 2001 to $800 million
as sales decreases in the conventional video components and display technologies
businesses more than offset an increase in the precision lens business.  Segment
net income declined 36% with each business deteriorating compared to 2000.

Sales in the display technology business, a leading supplier of ultra-thin glass
substrates  used to produce flat panel display,  decreased 3% to $323 million in
2001. A significant  shift in customer  demand from Japan to Korea caused volume
to increase  approximately  35% at Samsung Corning  Precision Glass Company Ltd.
(Samsung  Corning  Precision),  an equity  affiliate and Korean  manufacturer of
liquid crystal display glass, and 17% in the consolidated business.  This volume
growth, when offset by the impact of price declines and the deterioration of the
yen  resulted  in  the  sales  decline  of  3%.   Earnings  for  2001  decreased
approximately  25%,  primarily due to lower operating  margins driven by pricing
pressures,  start-up costs  incurred for the May opening of a new  manufacturing
facility in Taiwan and  additional  development  and  engineering  expenses  for
Eagle2000(TM),  a new glass  substrate  used in  active  matrix  liquid  crystal
displays. Additionally, equity earnings from Samsung Corning Precision were down
over 15% compared to 2000  primarily due to Corning  having a smaller  ownership
interest in the company in 2001 vs. 2000.

Sales in the conventional video components business, a manufacturer of optically
pure, mechanically precise face plates and funnels for larger-screen  television
tubes, were $252 million,  down 29% compared to 2000. The decrease was primarily
due to a weak U.S. economy and increased competitive pricing pressure.  Earnings
were down almost 50% due to lower sales volumes, decreased margins, a production
slowdown  in the fourth  quarter  and lower  equity  earnings.  Samsung  Corning
Company  Ltd.  (Samsung  Corning),  a  manufacturer  based in South  Korea  that
produces  glass panels and funnels for  television  and display  monitors,  also
experienced lower sales volumes and increased competitive pricing pressure,  and
thus lower  earnings.  Corning owns 50% of Samsung Corning and accounts for this
investment under the equity method.

                                       21

<PAGE>

Sales in the  precision  lens  business,  a  manufacturer  of lens  systems  for
projection  video and a  specialist  at making  lenses  from  optical  plastics,
increased  9% to $225  million in 2001.  The  increase  was due to the growth of
digital  projection  television  in the U.S. and China where the demand for high
definition  television was growing.  Despite the increase in sales, earnings for
2001  decreased  approximately  30%  primarily  due to  increased  research  and
development  spending and manufacturing  costs related to capacity  expansion of
projection television assemblies.

2000 vs. 1999

Sales in the Information  Display Segment increased 28% in 2000 to $894 million,
primarily due to strong growth in the display  technologies  and precision  lens
businesses.  Segment  net income  more than  doubled,  as did  equity  earnings,
reflecting increased earnings in each business over 1999.

Sales in the conventional video components  business remained relatively flat at
$354 million for 2000, compared to 1999, due to slightly lower volumes offset in
part by price  increases  as the supply of  television  glass  began to tighten.
Earnings in this  business  increased  83%  compared to 1999,  primarily  due to
higher equity earnings,  in addition to cost reductions and the impact of volume
and mix as a shift to higher premium products  occurred in 2000. The increase in
equity earnings reflected improved volume and stable pricing at Samsung Corning.

Sales in the display  technologies  business in 2000  increased 76% over 1999 to
$333  million.  This  significant  increase was the result of  continued  strong
demand for the business'  liquid crystal glass for flat panel  displays,  led by
increased penetration into the desktop display market. Earnings in this business
more than doubled  compared to 1999,  reflecting  strong volume gains and stable
pricing.  Also equity earnings from Samsung Corning  Precision more than doubled
largely due to strong volume gains in the Korean marketplace.

Sales in the precision lens business  increased 32% in 2000 to $207 million as a
result of strong volume growth for projection  televisions  driven by demand for
larger size digital television sets in the entertainment market sector. Earnings
in this  business  increased  59%  over  1999  primarily  due to  volume  gains,
manufacturing efficiencies and the refocusing of product lines.

During the fourth  quarter of 2000,  Samsung  Corning  recognized a nonoperating
gain of $23 million from the  divestment of its 40% interest in Samsung  Corning
Precision.  Corning's  $11 million  share of this gain is excluded  from segment
equity earnings.

Outlook:  Management expects the display technologies  business to see growth in
sales  volume in 2002,  primarily  due to  increased  penetration  of flat panel
monitors.  This  business  will  continue to be impacted by its  exposure to the
exchange  rate of the yen.  Management  expects the soft  economy to continue to
impact the  conventional  video  components  business  in 2002 as low demand and
overcapacity of glass exert downward pressure on prices. In addition, changes in
the  competitive  environment in the  conventional  television  glass market may
present  significant  challenges to this business.  The projection lens business
anticipates modest growth that will be dependent on global economic recovery.

NON-SEGMENT RESULTS

Corning's non-segment results include the operations of Steuben, a crystal glass
manufacturer,  and equity earnings from small nonstrategic  investments that are
not aligned with Corning's three operating segments. In addition, the results of
operating  segments does not include  impairment and  amortization  of goodwill,
impairment  of purchased  intangibles,  restructuring  actions,  purchased  IPRD
charges,  other  one-time  acquisition-related  charges  and other  nonrecurring
charges.

Amortization of goodwill

Amortization of goodwill  totaled $363 million ($344 million  after-tax) in 2001
compared to $216 million ($202  million  after-tax) in 2000 and $24 million ($18
million  after-tax) in 1999.  Amortization  of goodwill  increased in 2001 as it
included  charges for the entire year related to transactions  completed late in
2000.  The  amortization  of goodwill was reduced by the  impairment of goodwill
charge taken in the second quarter of 2001.  Effective January 1, 2002,  Corning
adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 142,  Business
Combinations, which eliminates the amortization of goodwill. The new standard is
discussed further under New Accounting  Standards and Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.


                                       22

<PAGE>

Nonrecurring non-segment results for 2001 are discussed earlier in Impairment of
Goodwill and Other Intangible  Assets and  Restructuring  Actions.  Nonrecurring
items in 2000 and 1999 are described below.

Other restructuring and impairment charges

In the  first  quarter  of 2000,  Corning  discontinued  recognition  of  equity
earnings  from  Pittsburgh  Corning  Corporation  (PCC) and recorded a charge to
impair  its  investment  for $36  million  due to  PCC's  decision  to file  for
bankruptcy   protection  and  reorganization   under  Chapter  11  for  asbestos
litigation.  See  Legal  Proceedings  and Note 9 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements for further detail.

In the third quarter of 1999,  Corning  recognized  an impairment  charge of $15
million ($10 million after-tax) in connection with management's decision to sell
Quanterra Incorporated.

In the fourth quarter of 1999, Corning released  restructuring reserves totaling
$14  million  ($9  million  after-tax)  related to early  retirement  incentives
offered in 1998 after  determining the total cost of the incentive package would
be less than anticipated.

Nonoperating gains

In 2000,  Samsung  Corning  recorded a fourth quarter  nonoperating  gain of $23
million from the  divestment of its 40% interest in Samsung  Corning  Precision.
Corning's  $11  million  share of this gain is included in equity in earnings of
associated companies.

In 2000,  Corning recorded a first quarter  nonoperating  gain of $7 million ($4
million  after-tax)  on the  sale of  Quanterra  Incorporated  to  Severn  Trent
Laboratories for approximately $35 million.

In 1999,  Corning recorded a third quarter  nonoperating gain of $30 million ($9
million  after-tax  and  minority  interest)  as a result  of the sale by Siecor
Corporation of Republic Wire and Cable for approximately $52 million in cash and
short-term notes.

Acquisition-related expenses

In the fourth quarter of 2000, Corning recorded a non-tax deductible IPRD charge
of $323 million related to the Pirelli transaction.

In the second quarter of 2000, Corning recorded a non-tax deductible IPRD charge
of $51 million  related to the  acquisitions  of  IntelliSense  Corporation  ($7
million) and NZ Applied Technologies (NZAT) ($44 million).

In the first  quarter of 2000,  Corning  recorded  an IPRD charge of $42 million
($25   million    after-tax)    related   to   the    acquisition   of   British
Telecommunication's Photonics Technology Research Center (PTRC).

In the first quarter of 2000,  Corning  recorded a charge for acquisition  costs
related  to the merger of Oak  Industries,  Inc.  of $47  million  ($43  million
after-tax) primarily comprised of legal and investment banking fees.

Charges  for  purchased  IPRD are  described  in more  detail  under  In-Process
Research and Development.

INCOME TAXES

Corning's  effective  (benefit) tax rate for  continuing  operations was (7.4%),
58.9% and 30.7% in 2001,  2000 and 1999,  respectively.  The effective tax rates
for the three years are not comparable, primarily due to the significant amounts
of amortization of goodwill and other intangible  assets in 2001 and 2000, along
with significant charges for impairment of goodwill in 2001 and IPRD in 2000, as
these charges are not tax deductible. These items reduce the benefit in 2001 and
increase the expense in 2000. Note 8 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
reconciles the statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate.


                                       23

<PAGE>

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Corning is meeting its  funding  needs  through  operating  cash flows,  outside
borrowings and equity issuances.  At December 31, 2001, Corning had $2.2 billion
in cash and short-term  investments and an unused  revolving  credit facility of
$2.0 billion.

Cash Flows and Working Capital

Sources of cash flow in 2001 were primarily operations,  generating cash of $1.4
billion  and  financing  transactions  (primarily  issuances  of public debt and
equity  securities)  providing  cash of $0.9 billion.  Corning used cash of $2.4
billion in investing  activities,  primarily  for capital  expenditures  and the
purchase of short-term investments.

Cash provided by operations in 2001 was  comparable  with 2000 results,  despite
the decrease in net income due to the magnitude of non-cash  charges,  increased
depreciation  and second half  reduction in working  capital as sales  declined.
Corning expects cash from operations in 2002 to be significantly less than 2001,
primarily due to lower operating earnings and restructuring  payments.  If sales
improve from fourth quarter 2001 levels,  Corning expects to use cash as working
capital  increases   commensurate  with  higher  demand.   Cash  and  short-term
investments on hand at December 31, 2001, access to commercial paper markets and
the  revolving  credit  facility are  alternative  sources of  liquidity.  These
vehicles are discussed separately below.

Corning has invested  significant  cash in capital  expansions in the last three
years.  During  2001,  Corning  reduced its capital  spending  program  from its
original plan of $2.5 billion to conserve cash.  Capital  spending  totaled $1.8
billion,  $1.7 billion,  including $0.2 billion in accrued capital expenditures,
and $757 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The high level of capital
spending  since 1999  relates  primarily  to capacity  expansions  in  Corning's
Telecommunications  Segment and expanded  research and  development  facilities.
Corning's 2002 capital spending program is expected to be less than $500 million
as all expansion-related  programs in the  Telecommunications  Segment are being
delayed  indefinitely.  Expansions  in 2002 are  expected to be primarily in the
liquid crystal display and environmental businesses.

Corning's net investment in short-term instruments during 2001 was $467 million,
compared to its initial net investment of $715 million in 2000. In 2000, Corning
began  investing  its  excess  cash in highly  liquid  debt  securities  such as
asset-backed securities,  municipal and corporate bonds and U.S. treasury notes.
These investments are on deposit with a major financial institution.

Corning raised approximately $225 million in August 2001 through the issuance of
14.2 million  shares of common  stock.  The proceeds are expected to finance the
acquisition of Lucent  Technologies'  controlling  equity  interests in Shanghai
Fiber Optic Co., Ltd. and Beijing  Fiber Optic Cable Co., Ltd. This  transaction
is expected to close in the first half of 2002.

In addition,  in November 2001 Corning  completed a convertible debt offering of
$665 million,  due November 1, 2008. See Note 12 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  for more  detail.  Corning  intends to use the net  proceeds of this
offering for general corporate purposes.

Dividends paid to common shareholders in 2001 totaled $112 million compared with
$210  million  in 2000  and  $176  million  in 1999.  On July 9,  2001,  Corning
announced the discontinuation of the payment of dividends on its common stock.

Corning's working capital decreased from $2.7 billion at the end of 2000 to $2.1
billion at the end of 2001. The ratio of current  assets to current  liabilities
was 2.1 at the  end of  2001,  compared  to 2.4 at the  end of  2000.  Corning's
working  capital in 2001 and 2000 included large cash and short-term  investment
balances.  Excluding cash and short-term investments,  Corning's working capital
for 2001 was $(106)  million,  or a decrease of $997  million,  compared to $891
million in 2000.  The  decrease in non-cash  components  of working  capital was
primarily  due to lower  inventories  and a  significant  decrease  in  accounts
receivable. Days sales outstanding in trade receivables decreased to 54 days for
the fourth  quarter of 2001,  from 56 days for the fourth quarter of 2000. As of
December  31,  2001,  Corning had not  provided  vendor  financing to any of its
customers.  Corning's  long-term debt as a percentage of total capital increased
from 27% at year-end  2000 to 45% at the end of 2001.  The increase is primarily
due to the reduction in  shareholders'  equity  arising from losses  recorded in
2001 and the issuance of convertible debt in November 2001.

Financing Matters and Credit Ratings

Commercial  paper  borrowings  outstanding  at December 31,  2001,  totaled $233
million with a weighted-average  maturity of 23 days. Corning's commercial paper
program is supported  by the $2.0  billion  revolving  credit  facility  with 18
banks,  expiring on August 17,  2005.  As of December  31,  2001,  there were no
borrowings  under the  facility.  The  facility  includes a  covenant  requiring
Corning to maintain a total debt to capital ratio, as defined,  not greater than
60%. At December 31, 2001, this ratio was 47%.

                                       24

<PAGE>

Corning's credit ratings as of March 1, 2002 were as follows:

RATING AGENCY                        Rating                 Rating
Last Update                      Long-Term Debt        Commercial Paper
-----------                      --------------        ----------------

Standard & Poor's (a)                 BBB                    A-2
    November 6, 2001

Moody's (a)                           Baa1                   P-2
    November 7, 2001

Fitch (a)                             BBB-                   F-3
    February 4, 2002

(a)  All three credit rating agencies have  maintained a negative  outlook which
     means a rating may be lowered.

Should business  performance  decline from the levels  experienced in the fourth
quarter of 2001,  these  ratings  could  receive  further  review  for  possible
downgrade.  A downgrade in short-term  ratings  could result in a  significantly
reduced  ability  to access the  commercial  paper  market and higher  borrowing
costs.  Corning's debt  agreements do not include  covenants that accelerate the
maturity of borrowings as a result of changes in credit ratings.

A security  rating is not a  recommendation  to buy, sell or hold securities and
may be subject to revision or  withdrawal  at any time by the  assigning  rating
organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

In March 2001, Corning filed a universal shelf  registration  statement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that became effective in the first
quarter.  The shelf  permits the  issuance of up to $5.0 billion of various debt
and equity  securities.  As of December 31, 2001,  Corning's  remaining capacity
under its shelf registration was approximately $4.1 billion.

Corning's   2001   earnings  were  not  adequate  to  cover  its  fixed  charges
(principally  interest  and related  charges on debt),  primarily as a result of
losses incurred in Corning's  Telecommunication's  Segment and the impairment of
goodwill. Corning's earnings may not be sufficient to cover its fixed charges in
2002.

Management  believes  that  Corning has ample  liquidity,  retains  satisfactory
access to the capital markets and maintains unused, revolving credit facilities.

Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies

At December 31, 2001, the  contractual  cash  obligations  and other  commercial
commitments and contingencies of Corning were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Contractual Cash Obligations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                      2006 and
                                                          2002       2003       2004        2005    thereafter     Total
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(In millions)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>           <C>
Long-term debt                                          $  244     $  173     $   38    $  2,411    $  2,003      $  4,869
Minimum rental commitments                                  67         61         57          51         331           567
Business combinations                                      225                                                         225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total contractual cash obligations                      $  536     $  234     $   95    $  2,462    $  2,334      $  5,661
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

At December 31,  2001,  future  minimum  lease  payments to be received  under a
noncancelable   sublease  to  Quest  Diagnostics  totaled  $47  million.   Quest
Diagnostics,  in turn, has a noncancelable  sublease covering  approximately $31
million of the minimum  lease  payments  due to  Corning.  Corning has agreed to
indemnify Quest Diagnostics should Quest  Diagnostics'  sublessee default on the
minimum lease payments.  Additionally,  Corning  continues to guarantee  certain
obligations of Quest Diagnostics totaling $14 million.

                                       25

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Amount of commitment and contingency expiration per period
                                                                ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   Less than   1 to 2     2 to 3      3 to 4     5 years and
                                                         Total      1 year      years      years       years      thereafter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(In millions)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>         <C>         <C>                                 <C>
Performance bonds and guarantees                        $  241                                                      $  241
Contingent purchase price for acquisitions                 238      $  25       $  25                                  188
Dow Corning credit facility                                150                                                         150
Stand-by letters of credit                                  33         33
Loan guarantees                                             16         12           4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total other commercial commitments
  and contingencies                                     $  678      $  70       $  29                               $  579
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


At December 31, 2001, Corning had guaranteed debt of equity affiliates  totaling
$16 million. In addition,  Corning and certain of its subsidiaries have provided
other  financial  guarantees and contingent  liabilities in the form of purchase
price  adjustments  related to attainment  of  milestones,  stand-by  letters of
credit  and  performance  bonds,  some of which do not have  fixed or  scheduled
expiration dates. Corning has agreed to provide a credit facility related to Dow
Corning as discussed in Note 9 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  The
funding of the Dow Corning credit facility is subject to events connected to the
Bankruptcy  Plan as described  in Note 9.  Management  believes the  significant
majority of the other guarantees and contingent  liabilities will expire without
being funded.

IN-PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Corning  completed  a  number  of  purchase  acquisitions  in  2000.  As part of
analyzing each of these acquisitions,  Corning made a decision to buy technology
that  had not  yet  been  commercialized  rather  than  develop  the  technology
internally.  Corning based this  decision on a number of factors,  including the
amount of time it would take to bring the  technology  to market.  Corning  also
considered  its  internal  research  resource  allocation  and its  progress  on
comparable technology,  if any. Corning expects to use the same decision process
in the future.

In connection  with the  acquisitions  accounted for under the purchase  method,
management  is  responsible  for  estimating  the fair  value of the  assets and
liabilities acquired.  Management has made estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported  amounts of assets,  liabilities  and expenses  resulting from such
acquisitions.

Amounts  allocated  to  purchased  IPRD  were  established   through  recognized
valuation  techniques in the high technology  communications  industry.  Certain
projects  were  acquired  for  which  technological  feasibility  had  not  been
established at the date of acquisition and for which no alternative  future uses
existed. In accordance with SFAS No. 2, "Accounting for Research and Development
Costs,"  as  interpreted  by  Financial   Accounting   Standards   Board  (FASB)
Interpretation  No.  4,  "Applicability  of FASB  Statement  No.  2 to  Business
Combinations  Accounted for by the Purchase  Method,"  amounts  assigned to IPRD
meeting  the  above  criteria  must  be  charged  to  expense  at  the  date  of
consummation of the purchase.

The value  allocated to projects for which a charge was recorded was  determined
by the traditional  income approach,  which discounts  expected future debt-free
income to present  value.  The discount rates used were specific to each project
and were derived from a cost of capital for each  specific  acquisition  target,
adjusted upward for the stage of completion of each project.

Expected future debt-free income was derived with the following considerations:

-    revenues were estimated based on relevant market size, growth trends in the
     industry and individual product sales cycles,
-    estimated operating expenses included cost of goods sold, selling,  general
     and  administrative  expenses,  and  research and  development  expenses to
     maintain the products once they have been introduced,
-    estimated tax expenses  were  specific to each acquired  entity and its tax
     profile, and
-    for certain  projects,  as  appropriate,  a return on core  technology  was
     deducted based upon market standards for licensed existing technology and a
     return on assets was deducted based upon industry comparisons.

                                       26

<PAGE>

The nature of the efforts to develop the acquired  technology into  commercially
viable  products  consists  principally  of  planning,   designing  and  testing
activities necessary to determine that the product can meet market expectations.
Corning expects that products  incorporating the acquired  technology from these
projects  will be completed  and will begin to generate cash flows over the five
years following integration.

Management  expects to continue  supporting  the majority of these  research and
development  efforts.  Projects  abandoned are noted below.  This support is not
expected to change Corning's research and development  expense trends.  However,
the timing and success of development of these  technologies  remains a risk due
to the  remaining  effort  to  achieve  technical  viability,  rapidly  changing
customer  markets,   uncertain   standards  for  new  products  and  significant
competition in the marketplace.

The following is a more detailed  discussion of the valuations  associated  with
acquisitions for which such charges have been recorded:

Acquisition of Pirelli's Optical Components and Devices Business
----------------------------------------------------------------

On December 12, 2000, Corning completed the Pirelli  transaction.  This business
had a significant  number of research and  development  projects  ongoing at the
time of  acquisition  of  which  12 were  valued  as  IPRD  projects.  Projected
debt-free  income was  initially  discounted  using a rate of 17% to reflect the
weighted-average cost of capital (entity risk) for this entity. Each product was
also  discounted  to account for the research  project's  stage of  development.
Corning recorded a non-tax  deductible IPRD charge of $323 million in the fourth
quarter of 2000.

Costs to complete the in-process  research  programs are expected to approximate
$25 million to $30  million.  These  projects  have been  categorized  into four
product technologies as follows:

Lithium Niobate Modulators

The business is  developing a number of different  lithium  niobate  modulators.
Lithium niobate  modulators are ideally suited for use in high-speed,  long-haul
optical communications networks. The technology has been chosen by a majority of
long-haul  equipment  suppliers  because it has the best combination of optical,
electronic and reliability performance.  Five of the research projects qualified
as IPRD projects,  and the completion  percentages of these five projects ranged
from 10%-90%. A non-tax deductible charge of $235 million was recognized and the
value of individual modulator projects in-process ranged from $19 million to $83
million.

Submarine Products

The business had planned to develop high  reliability  980  nanometer  (nm) pump
laser chips and modules for submarine use.  These devices are components  within
an optical amplifier. At the acquisition date, two IPRD projects with completion
percentages  of 10% and 50% were  valued.  A  non-tax  deductible  charge of $26
million  resulted  from  980  nm  pump  laser  submarine  projects  in  process.
Individual research values were $3 million and $23 million.

As part of the  downsizing of the photonic  technologies  business  announced on
July 9,  2001,  Corning  abandoned  this  project.  This  action  did not have a
material impact on cash flow, or the results of operations.

Gratings

At the date of acquisition,  three qualifying  gratings programs with completion
percentages  ranging from 20%-85% were valued. A non-tax  deductible IPRD charge
of $16 million resulted from gratings programs.  Individual  in-process projects
were valued between $2 million and $11 million.

As part of the  downsizing of the photonic  technologies  business  announced on
July 9,  2001,  Corning  abandoned  this  project.  This  action  did not have a
material impact on cash flow, or the results of operations.

Specialty Fiber

Two  specialty  fiber  programs  at the  business  met the  definition  of IPRD.
Specialty  fibers are used in conjunction  with several other components to make
an erbium  doped  fiber  amplifier,  which  boosts the  strength  of the optical
signal.  At the acquisition  date,  these projects were 40% and 60% complete.  A
non-tax  deductible  IPRD charge of $46 million  resulted from  specialty  fiber
programs, with the largest program being valued at $42 million.

                                       27

<PAGE>

IntelliSense
------------

On June 12, 2000,  Corning  completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of
IntelliSense,  a manufacturer and developer of micro-electro-mechanical  systems
(MEMs), or small electro-mechanical,  micro-fabricated devices. MEMs technology,
when integrated with optics and packaging expertise,  enables the development of
optical add-drop switches and optical cross connects,  that are expected to play
a key role in the development and build out of the optical  networking layer. As
of the acquisition  date,  IntelliSense had three qualifying  research  projects
underway.  These  research and  development  projects are  anticipated to result
primarily  in the  development  of new  telecommunications  products.  Projected
debt-free  income was  initially  discounted  using a rate of 20% to reflect the
weighted-average  cost of capital (entity risk) for  IntelliSense.  Each product
was also discounted to account for the research  project's stage of development.
The completion  percentages  ranged from 10%-90%.  At the acquisition  date, the
projected costs to complete the IPRD programs approximated $20 million.  Corning
recorded a $7 million  IPRD  charge in the  second  quarter of 2000.  No project
valued exceeded $5 million.

If  none  of the  projects  are  successfully  completed,  Corning  may  lose an
opportunity  to capitalize on emerging  markets.  Failure of any single  project
would not materially impact Corning's financial condition, results of operations
or liquidity.

In all material  respects,  the research  projects have progressed as planned at
acquisition.

NZ Applied Technologies
-----------------------

On May 5, 2000, Corning completed the acquisition of NZAT. NZAT was developing a
line of  high  speed,  solid-state  components  for  dense  wavelength  division
multiplexing  systems,  such as  variable  optical  attenuators,  that will meet
industry demands for speed and quality. Of these projects,  four were determined
to meet the criteria for purchased IPRD as of the  acquisition  date.  Projected
debt-free  income was  initially  discounted  using a rate of 21% to reflect the
weighted-average  cost of capital  (entity risk) for NZAT. Each product was also
discounted  to account for the  research  project's  stage of  development.  The
completion  percentages  ranged  from  10%-80%.  At the  acquisition  date,  the
projected costs to complete the IPRD programs  approximated  $10 million.  A $44
million  non-tax  deductible  IPRD  charge  was  recognized  and  the  value  of
individual projects ranged from $1 million to $29 million.

If  none  of the  projects  are  successfully  completed,  Corning  may  lose an
opportunity  to capitalize on emerging  markets.  Failure of any single  project
would not materially impact Corning's financial condition, results of operations
or liquidity.

In the fourth  quarter  of 2000,  NZAT  completed  certain  product  development
milestones for its variable optical attenuator products.

Photonics Technology Research Center
------------------------------------

On February 14, 2000,  Corning acquired PTRC.  Located in Suffolk,  UK, the PTRC
had extensive research and development  efforts underway at the acquisition date
including work on planar integrated optics,  semiconductor  optical  amplifiers,
electro-absorption  modulators and optical  networking  devices.  Seven projects
were  determined to meet the criteria for purchased  IPRD.  Projected  debt-free
income was determined for each of the projects and initially  discounted using a
rate of 35% to reflect the  weighted-average  cost of capital  (entity risk) for
PTRC.  Each product was also  discounted  to account for the research  project's
stage of development.  The completion  percentages  ranged from 50%-80%.  At the
acquisition date, the projected costs to complete the IPRD programs approximated
$40 million.  A $42 million ($25 million  after-tax)  IPRD charge was recognized
and the value of  individual  projects  ranged  from less than $1 million to $16
million.

If  none  of the  projects  are  successfully  completed,  Corning  may  lose an
opportunity  to capitalize on emerging  markets.  Failure of any single  project
would not materially impact Corning's financial condition, results of operations
or liquidity.

ENVIRONMENT

Corning  has  been  named  by the  Environmental  Protection  Agency  under  the
Superfund  Act,  or  by  state  governments  under  similar  state  laws,  as  a
potentially  responsible  party for 12 active  hazardous waste sites.  Under the
Superfund  Act,  all parties who may have  contributed  any waste to a hazardous
waste site,  identified by such Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the
cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees  otherwise.  It is Corning's  policy to
accrue  for its  estimated  liability  related  to  Superfund  sites  and  other
environmental  liabilities  related to  property  owned and  operated by Corning
based on expert analysis and continual  monitoring by both internal and external
consultants.  Corning has accrued  approximately  $24 million for its  estimated
liability for environmental cleanup and related litigation at December 31, 2001.
Based upon the  information  developed  to date,  management  believes  that the
accrued  amount is a reasonable  estimate of Corning's  estimated  liability and
that the risk of an  additional  loss in an amount  materially  higher than that
accrued is remote.

                                       28

<PAGE>

MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES

Corning operates and conducts business in many foreign countries and as a result
is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates.  Corning's  exposure
to exchange rate effects includes:

-    exchange  rate  movements  on  financial   instruments   and   transactions
     denominated in foreign currencies which impact earnings, and
-    exchange  rate  movements   upon   conversion  of  net  assets  in  foreign
     subsidiaries  for which the  functional  currency  is not the U.S.  dollar,
     which impact Corning's net equity.

Corning's most significant  foreign currency  exposures relate to Japan,  Korea,
Taiwan and Western European  countries.  Corning selectively enters into foreign
exchange forward and option contracts with durations generally 12 months or less
to hedge its  exposure  to  exchange  rate risk on  foreign  source  income  and
purchases.  The hedges are scheduled to mature coincident with the timing of the
underlying foreign currency commitments and transactions. The objective of these
contracts is to neutralize  the impact of exchange  rate  movements on Corning's
operating  results.  Corning also enters into foreign exchange forward contracts
when situations  arise where its foreign  subsidiaries  or Corning  Incorporated
enter into lending situations,  generally on an intercompany basis,  denominated
in currencies  other than their local  currency.  Corning does not hold or issue
any derivative  contracts that hedge its foreign currency  denominated net asset
exposures.  Corning does not hold or issue derivative financial  instruments for
trading purposes.

Equity in  earnings of  associated  companies  has  historically  represented  a
significant  amount of Corning's  income from continuing  operations.  Equity in
earnings of  associated  companies  was $148 million in 2001 with  foreign-based
affiliates comprising 93% of this amount. Exchange rate fluctuations and actions
taken by  management  of these  entities  to  reduce  this risk can  affect  the
earnings of these companies.

Corning uses a sensitivity  analysis to assess the market risk  associated  with
its foreign  currency  exchange  risk.  Market risk is defined as the  potential
change  in fair  value of  assets  and  liabilities  resulting  from an  adverse
movement in foreign currency  exchange rates. At December 31, 2001,  Corning and
its consolidated subsidiaries had open forward contracts, open option contracts,
foreign  denominated  debt and foreign cash and cash  equivalent  holdings  with
values  exposed to exchange  rate  movements,  all of which were  designated  as
hedges at December 31, 2001. A 10% adverse  movement in quoted foreign  currency
exchange rates could result in a loss in fair value of these  instruments of $83
million.

The nature of Corning's  foreign  exchange rate risk  exposures have not changed
materially from December 31, 2000,  however  Corning's  acquisition  activity in
2000 has expanded its presence in  international  markets and thus increased the
degree of its exposures overall.

In  2000,   Corning  began   investing  in  start-up   companies  with  emerging
technologies in the telecommunications  industry. These investments are recorded
at cost and contain a high degree of risk as the technologies  under development
may never yield  marketable  products.  Investments  of this nature totaled $133
million  and $52 million at December  31, 2001 and 2000,  respectively.  Corning
routinely assesses the recoverability of the carrying value of these investments
and will impair these assets when a decline in value is other than temporary.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of financial  statements  requires  management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect amounts reported therein. The estimates that require
management's  most  difficult,  subjective  or complex  judgments  are described
below. The critical judgments impacting the financial statements include:

-    the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets,
-    inventory write-down and realizability determinations,
-    salvage values of assets impaired in connection with restructuring actions,
-    valuation allowances for deferred income taxes, and
-    purchased IPRD.

                                       29

<PAGE>

In each situation, management is required to make estimates about the effects of
matters, or future events that are inherently  uncertain.  Specifically,  in its
assessment  of impairment of goodwill and other  intangible  assets,  management
made estimates of the fair values based upon forecasted revenues and operations.
(Refer to  Impairment  of  Goodwill  and Other  Intangible  Assets  for  further
discussion  of  management's   determination  of  its  impairment   charge.)  An
assessment of inventory  realizability requires management to forecast sales and
future  technological  developments.  An estimation of salvage values associated
with  assets to be disposed of requires  judgments  concerning  such  factors as
fluctuating real estate markets and timing of disposal.  Corning has reduced its
deferred  tax assets to an amount that it believes is more likely than not to be
realized.   In  so  doing,  Corning  has  estimated  future  taxable  income  in
determining the valuation allowance.  Valuing purchased IPRD requires management
to  estimate  the  amount and timing of future  cash  flows  resulting  from new
product introductions.

Corning used what it believes are reasonable  assumptions and where  applicable,
established valuation techniques in making its estimates.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141,  "Business  Combinations,"  and SFAS
No. 142,  "Goodwill and Other Intangible  Assets." Among other  provisions,  all
future business  combinations will be accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting  and the use of the  pooling-of-interests  method is  prohibited  for
transactions initiated after June 30, 2001. In addition, goodwill will no longer
be amortized but will be subject to impairment tests at least annually. SFAS No.
142 was  effective  for  Corning  on  January  1,  2002.  An  assessment  of the
recoverability  of goodwill  recorded on the date of adoption  must be performed
within one year.  At December  31, 2001,  goodwill  approximated  $1.9  billion.
Corning does not anticipate a transitional  impairment  charge from the adoption
of the standard.

The following table presents a reconciliation  of reported net (loss) income and
(loss)  earnings per share to adjusted net (loss) income and (loss) earnings per
share, as if SFAS No. 142 had been in effect as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                           Years ended December 31,
                                                                  -----------------------------------------
(In millions)                                                          2001          2000           1999
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                               <C>            <C>            <C>
Reported net (loss) income                                        $  (5,498)     $    422       $    516
Goodwill amortization, net of income taxes                              345           203             18
                                                                  ----------------------------------------
Adjusted net (loss) income                                        $  (5,153)     $    625       $    534
                                                                  ========================================

Reported net (loss) income per share - basic                      $   (5.89)     $   0.49       $   0.67
Goodwill amortization, net of income taxes                             0.37          0.24           0.03
                                                                  ----------------------------------------
Adjusted net (loss) income per share - basic                      $   (5.52)     $   0.73       $   0.70
                                                                  ========================================

Reported net (loss) income per share - diluted                    $   (5.89)     $   0.48       $   0.66
Goodwill amortization, net of income taxes                             0.37          0.23           0.02
                                                                  ----------------------------------------
Adjusted net (loss) income per share - diluted                    $   (5.52)     $   0.71       $   0.68
                                                                  ========================================
</TABLE>

In June 2001,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,  "Accounting  for Asset  Retirement
Obligations."  This standard  addresses  financial  accounting and reporting for
obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the
associated asset retirement costs. Corning is required to implement SFAS No. 143
on January 1, 2003.  Corning  does not expect  this  standard to have a material
impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144,  "Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal  of  Long-Lived   Assets."  This  standard  supercedes  SFAS  No.  121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be  Disposed  Of." The  standard  retains  the  previously  existing  accounting
requirements  related to the  recognition  and  measurement of the impairment of
long-lived   assets  to  be  held  and  used  while  expanding  the  measurement
requirements  of  long-lived  assets  to be  disposed  of  by  sale  to  include
discontinued  operations.  It also expands on the previously  existing reporting
requirements  for  discontinued  operations  to include a component of an entity
that either has been disposed of or is  classified as held for sale.  Corning is
required to implement  SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002.  Corning does not expect
this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated  financial  position
or results of operations.

                                       30

<PAGE>

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The statements in this Annual Report, in reports  subsequently  filed by Corning
with the SEC on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and related  comments by management which are
not  historical  facts or  information  and  contain  words such as  "believes,"
"expects," "anticipates,"  "estimates," "forecasts," and similar expressions are
forward-looking  statements.  These forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties that may cause the actual outcome to be materially different. Such
risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:

-    global economic conditions,
-    currency fluctuations,
-    product demand and industry capacity,
-    competitive products and pricing,
-    sufficiency of manufacturing capacity and efficiencies,
-    cost reductions,
-    availability and costs of critical materials,
-    new product development and commercialization,
-    attracting and retaining key personnel,
-    order activity and demand from major customers,
-    fluctuations  in capital  spending by customers  in the  telecommunications
     industry and other business segments,
-    changes in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products,
-    facility expansions and new plant start-up costs,
-    adverse litigation or regulatory developments,
-    capital resource and cash flow activities,
-    capital spending,
-    equity company activities,
-    interest costs,
-    acquisition and divestiture activity,
-    the rate of technology change,
-    the ability to enforce patents,
-    product performance issues,
-    stock price fluctuations, and
-    other risks detailed in Corning's SEC filings.


Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks
---------------------------------------------------------------------

See Item 7, Market Risk Disclosures, appearing on page 29.


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
----------------------------------------------------

See Item 14 (a) 1.


Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

None.

                                       31

<PAGE>

                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers
------------------------------------------

A list of Directors of the Company,  appearing under the captions  "Nominees for
Election" and "Directors  Continuing in Office" in the Proxy Statement  relating
to the  annual  meeting  of  shareholders  to be  held on  April  25,  2002,  is
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





                                       32

<PAGE>

                      Executive Officers of the Registrant


John W. Loose   President and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Loose joined  Corning in 1964 and  subsequently  held a variety of sales and
marketing positions in the Consumer Products Division.  In 1986 he was appointed
vice  president and general  manager for the  Asia-Pacific  area. In 1988 he was
appointed vice president for Corning International Corporation and president and
chief executive officer of Corning Asahi Video Products Company and subsequently
senior vice  president,  International.  In April 1990 he was elected  executive
vice president responsible for the Information Display Group. In 1993, Mr. Loose
became responsible for the consumer business and was elected president and chief
executive officer of Corning Consumer  Products Company.  In 1996 he was elected
president, Corning Communications.  He was elected president and chief operating
officer  in 1999.  In 2000,  Mr.  Loose  was  elected  chief  executive  officer
effective  January 1, 2001.  Mr. Loose is a director of Dow Corning  Corporation
and Polaroid Corporation,  a trustee of Corning Incorporated  Foundation and the
Corning  Museum of Glass  and a member of The  Business  Council,  the  Business
Roundtable  and the Business  Council of New York State and has been a member of
Corning's Board of Directors since 1996. Age 60.

James B. Flaws   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Mr.  Flaws  joined  Corning in 1973 and has held a variety of  positions  within
Corning's  Consumer  Products group and in 1991 was appointed vice president and
chief financial  officer.  Mr. Flaws was elected assistant  treasurer of Corning
Incorporated in 1993, vice president and controller  effective as of February 1,
1997 and vice  president-finance  and treasurer effective as of May 16, 1997. He
was elected senior vice president and chief financial officer in December, 1997.
Mr.  Flaws is a  director  of Dow  Corning  Corporation.  He was  elected to his
present  position in 1999.  Mr.  Flaws has been a member of  Corning's  Board of
Directors since December 2000. Age 53.

Peter F. Volanakis   President, Corning Technologies
Mr. Volanakis joined Corning in 1982 and  subsequently  held various  marketing,
development  and  commercial  positions in several  divisions.  In 1991,  he was
appointed director of corporate marketing.  In 1995, he was named executive vice
president of Siecor Corporation.  He was named senior vice president of Advanced
Display  Products in October 1997.  Effective  January 1, 1999, he was appointed
executive vice president of the Advanced Display and Science Products Divisions.
In December  2000,  he was elected  president,  Corning  Technologies  effective
January 1, 2001.  Mr.  Volanakis is a director of Dow Corning  Corporation.  Mr.
Volanakis has been a member of Corning's Board of Directors since December 2000.
Age 46.

Wendell P. Weeks   President, Corning Optical Communications
Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983 and has served in various accounting,  business
development,  and business  manager  positions.  In 1992,  he was named  general
manager  and  director  of  external  development,  Opto-Electronics  Components
Business,  division vice president in July 1994,  and deputy general  manager in
June  1995.  He  was  appointed  vice  president  and  general  manager  of  the
Telecommunications  Products  Division in March 1996 and senior  vice  president
effective  November  1,  1997.  Effective  January  1,  1999,  he was  appointed
executive vice president of  Opto-Electronics.  In December 2000, he was elected
president of Corning Optical Communications effective January 1, 2001. Mr. Weeks
has been a member of Corning's Board of Directors since December 2000. Age 42.

Katherine A. Asbeck   Senior Vice President and Controller
Ms. Asbeck joined Corning in 1991 as director of  accounting.  She was appointed
assistant  controller in 1993,  designated chief accounting  officer in 1994 and
elected vice  president  and  controller  effective as of May 1997.  In December
2000, she was elected senior vice president effective January 1, 2001. Age 45.

Robert L.  Ecklin  Executive  Vice  President,  Environmental  Technologies  and
Strategic Growth
Mr.  Ecklin  joined  Corning  in 1961  and  served  in a  variety  of  U.S.  and
international  manufacturing and engineering  managerial positions.  For Corning
Engineering  he  served  as its vice  president  in 1982 and was  appointed  its
president in 1983. In 1986 he became vice president of Business Development. Mr.
Ecklin was appointed general manager of the Industrial Products Division in 1989
and senior vice  president in 1990.  Effective  January  1999,  he was appointed
executive vice president of the  Environmental  Products  Division and effective
January 2001, he was named executive vice president, Optical Communications.  He
was named  executive vice president - Environmental  Technologies  and Strategic
Growth effective January 1, 2002. Age 63.

William D. Eggers   Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Mr. Eggers joined Corning in 1997 as vice president and deputy general  counsel.
He was elected senior vice  president and general  counsel in February 1998. Mr.
Eggers was a Partner with the Rochester firm of Nixon, Hargrave, Devans & Doyle,
LLP, before joining Corning, and was outside litigation counsel for Corning in a
number of commercial matters. Age 57.

                                       33

<PAGE>

Alan T. Eusden   Senior Vice President and General Manager, Optical Fiber
Mr. Eusden joined  Corning in 1983 and has held a variety of  manufacturing  and
financial  management  positions  within  the  Telecommunications  Products  and
Specialty  Materials  Divisions.  In 1994, he was appointed  general  manager of
Corning  GmbH.  He was appointed  division  vice  president  and deputy  general
manager  of the  Telecommunications  Products  Division  in  April  1998 and was
appointed division vice president and general  manager-TPD in September 1998. He
was elected vice  president and general  manager-Optical  Fiber in January 1999,
and  appointed to his current  position in December  2000  effective  January 1,
2001. Age 46.

Gerald J. Fine   Executive Vice President, Photonic Technologies
Dr. Fine joined  Corning in 1985 as a research  scientist  in the  Research  and
Development  Division and served as manager,  Consumer Products  Development for
the division  from  1990-1992.  He held  management  positions for Corning Asahi
Video Products and was named deputy general manager-Advanced Display Products in
1995.  He was named vice  president  and general  manager-Photonic  Technologies
Division in October 1997.  In December  2000,  Dr. Fine was appointed  executive
vice president-Photonic Technologies effective January 1, 2001. Age 44.

Kirk P. Gregg   Senior Vice President, Administration
Mr. Gregg  joined  Corning in 1993 as director of  Executive  Compensation,  was
named vice  president of Executive  Resources and Employee  Benefits in December
1994. He was named to his current  position in December  1997.  Prior to joining
Corning,  Mr. Gregg was with General Dynamics Corporation as corporate director,
Key Management  Programs,  and was  responsible for executive  compensation  and
benefits, executive development and recruiting. Age 42.

Joseph A. Miller   Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer
Dr.  Miller  joined  Corning in 2001 and was  appointed to his current  position
effective  July 1, 2001.  Prior to  joining  Corning,  Dr.  Miller was with E.I.
DuPont de Nemours,  Inc., where he served as chief technology officer and senior
vice president for research and development since 1994. He began his career with
DuPont in 1966 as a research chemist in Polymer Science.  He also held a variety
of positions in research and development, manufacturing, business and marketing.
Age 60.

Donald H. McConnell   Senior Vice President, Director-Science and Technology
Mr. McConnell joined Corning in 1966 and has held a variety of manufacturing and
engineering  management  positions.  He became  division vice  president-Corning
Asahi Video Products in 1989 and was appointed  division vice  president-Product
and Process Development,  Science and Technology, in January 1995. Mr. McConnell
was appointed  vice  president-Science  & Technology in April 1997 and was named
vice  president-Science  & Technology  and technology  delivery  officer-Corning
Optical  Communications in March 1999. Effective January 2001, Mr. McConnell was
elected senior vice president, director-Science and Technology. Age 58.

Pamela C. Schneider  Senior Vice President-Human Resources and Diversity Officer
Ms.  Schneider  joined  Corning in 1986 and has held a variety of financial  and
human  resource  management  positions.  In 1991 she was named  chief  financial
officer of Corning Asahi Video Products. In January 1993, she was appointed vice
president and chief financial  officer for Corning Consumer Products Company and
named vice  president for Finance &  Administration  in 1995. She was named vice
president-Human  Resources  and  diversity  officer  in  December  1997  and was
appointed to her present position in December 1999. Age 48.

                                       34

<PAGE>

Item 11.  Executive Compensation
--------------------------------

Information  covering  Executive  Compensation,  appearing  under  the  captions
"Report of the  Compensation  Committee  of the Board of  Directors on Executive
Compensation" and "Other Matters" in the Proxy Statement  relating to the annual
meeting  of  shareholders  to be held on April  25,  2002,  is  incorporated  by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Information  with respect to Security  Ownership of Certain  Beneficial  Owners,
appearing under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" in
the Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on
April 25, 2002, is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
--------------------------------------------------------

A description of transactions  with  management and others and certain  business
relationships,  appearing under the captions "Matters Relating to Directors" and
"Other  Matters"  in the Proxy  Statement  relating  to the  annual  meeting  of
shareholders  to be held on April 25, 2002, is incorporated by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.


                                       35

<PAGE>

                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

(a)  Documents filed as part of this report:

     1.   Index to financial statements and financial statement schedules, filed
          as part of this report:

                                                                           Page

             Report of Independent Accountants                              39

             Consolidated Statements of Income                              40

             Consolidated Balance Sheets                                    41

             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                          42

             Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity     43

             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                   44-73

             Financial Statement Schedule:
                   II       Valuation Accounts and Reserves                 74

     2.   Supplementary Data:
             Quarterly Operating Results and Related Market Data            75
             Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison                 76-77
             Investor Information                                           78

     3.   Exhibits filed as part of this report: see (c) below.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of fiscal 2001:

     A report on Form 8-K dated October 3, 2001,  filed in  connection  with the
     registrant's restructuring program.

     A report on Form 8-K dated October 18, 2001,  filed in connection  with the
     registrant's third quarter results.

     A report on Form 8-K dated November 9, 2001,  filed in connection  with the
     registrant's plan for a convertible debenture offering.

     A report on Form 8-K dated November 13, 2001,  filed in connection with the
     registrant's issuance of 3.5% convertible debentures.

     A report on Form 8-K dated November 15, 2001,  filed in connection with the
     registrant's   convertible  debenture  offering  whereby  the  underwriters
     exercised their option to purchase additional debentures.

(c)  Exhibits filed as part of this report:

     #4   Rights  Agreement dated June 5, 1996, that defines the preferred share
          purchase rights which trade with the Registrant's  common stock, which
          appears as Exhibit 1 to Form 8-K, dated July 10, 1996, is incorporated
          herein by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     #12  Computation  of  Ratio of  Earnings  to  Combined  Fixed  Charges  and
          Preferred Dividends

     #21  Subsidiaries of the Registrant at December 31, 2001

     #23  Consent of Independent Accountants

     #24  Powers of Attorney

                                       36

<PAGE>

Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  Registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Corning Incorporated
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


<S>    <C>                                         <C>                                                               <C>
              Principal Executive Officer
By               /s/ John W. Loose                 President and                                                     March 4, 2002
       ----------------------------------------    Chief Executive Officer
                    (John W. Loose)

              Principal Financial Officer
By               /s/ James B. Flaws                Executive Vice President and                                      March 4, 2002
       ----------------------------------------    Chief Financial Officer
                  (James B. Flaws)

             Principal Accounting Officer
By              /s/ Katherine A. Asbeck            Senior Vice President and Controller                              March 4, 2002
       ----------------------------------------
                 (Katherine A. Asbeck)
</TABLE>

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
on the date indicated.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                                <C>                                                               <C>
                                                   Capacity                                                              Date
                      *
                                                   Chairman of the Board of Directors                                March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (James R. Houghton)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (Roger G. Ackerman)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (John Seely Brown)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
              (James B. Flaws)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
                (Gordon Gund)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (John M. Hennessy)

</TABLE>

                                       37

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                                <C>                                                               <C>
                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
               (John W. Loose)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (James J. O'Connor)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (Catherine A. Rein)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (Deborah D. Rieman)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
              (H. Onno Ruding)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
           (William D. Smithburg)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
            (Hansel E. Tookes II)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
            (Peter F. Volanakis)


                      *
                                                   Director                                                          March 4, 2002
-----------------------------------------------
             (Wendell P. Weeks)



*By              /s/ William D. Eggers
       ----------------------------------------
         (William D. Eggers, Attorney-in-fact)

</TABLE>


                                       38

<PAGE>

Report of Independent Accountants


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP




To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Corning Incorporated

In our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  listed  in the index
appearing  under  Item  14(a)(1)  on page 36  present  fairly,  in all  material
respects, the financial position of Corning Incorporated and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2001 and 2000,  and the results of their  operations and their cash
flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  2001 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in
the index  appearing  under Item 14 (a)(1) on page 36  presents  fairly,  in all
material  respects,  the  information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated  financial statements.  These financial statements
and  financial  statement  schedule  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management;  our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements and financial  statement  schedule based on our audits.  We conducted
our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence  supporting the amounts and  disclosures  in the financial  statements,
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  and evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.




PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1301 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10019


January 23, 2002



                                       39

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Consolidated Statements of Income                                                      Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                Years ended December 31,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions, except per share amounts)                                                   2001            2000              1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                  <C>               <C>              <C>
Net sales                                                                            $   6,272         $ 7,127          $  4,741
Cost of sales                                                                            4,380           4,131             2,930
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------

Gross margin                                                                             1,892           2,996             1,811

Operating expenses:
   Selling, general and administrative expenses                                          1,097           1,047               667
   Research, development and engineering expenses                                          631             540               378
   Amortization of purchased intangibles, including goodwill                               439             245                28
   Acquisition-related charges                                                                             463
   Impairment and restructuring charges                                                  5,725                                 1
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------

Operating (loss) income                                                                 (6,000)            701               737

Interest income                                                                             68             105                12
Interest expense                                                                          (153)           (107)              (93)
Other expense, net                                                                         (26)            (15)              (11)
Nonoperating gain                                                                                            7                30
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes                            (6,111)            691               675
(Benefit) provision for income taxes                                                      (452)            407               207
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------

(Loss) income from continuing operations before minority interest
  and equity earnings                                                                   (5,659)            284               468
Minority interest in losses (earnings) of subsidiaries                                      13             (24)              (67)
Dividends on convertible preferred securities of subsidiary                                                                   (2)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                                 148             185               112
Impairment of equity investment                                                                            (36)
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------

(Loss) income from continuing operations                                                (5,498)            409               511
Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                                    13                 5
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------

NET (LOSS) INCOME                                                                    $  (5,498)        $   422          $    516
                                                                                     =============================================

BASIC (LOSS) EARNINGS PER SHARE
  Continuing operations                                                              $  (5.89)         $  0.48          $   0.67
  Discontinued operations                                                                                 0.01
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------
NET (LOSS) INCOME PER SHARE                                                          $  (5.89)         $  0.49          $   0.67
                                                                                     =============================================

DILUTED (LOSS) EARNINGS PER SHARE
  Continuing operations                                                              $  (5.89)         $  0.46          $   0.65
  Discontinued operations                                                                                 0.02              0.01
                                                                                     ---------------------------------------------
NET (LOSS) INCOME PER SHARE                                                          $  (5.89)         $  0.48          $   0.66
                                                                                     =============================================

</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                                       40

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Consolidated Balance Sheets                                                            Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                      December 31,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                                                                                 2001                  2000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                      <C>                   <C>
ASSETS

Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                              $   1,037             $   1,079
  Short-term investments, at fair value                                                      1,182                   715
                                                                                         --------------------------------
    Total cash and short-term investments                                                    2,219                 1,794
  Trade accounts receivable, net of doubtful accounts and
   allowances - $60/2001; $47/2000                                                             593                 1,302
  Inventories                                                                                  725                 1,040
  Deferred income taxes                                                                        347                   172
  Other current assets                                                                         223                   326
                                                                                         --------------------------------

    Total current assets                                                                     4,107                 4,634
                                                                                         --------------------------------

Investments:
  Associated companies, at equity                                                              636                   494
  Others, at cost or fair value                                                                142                   156
                                                                                         --------------------------------
    Total investments                                                                          778                   650
                                                                                         --------------------------------
Plant and equipment, at cost, net of accumulated depreciation                                5,097                 4,679
Goodwill, net of accumulated amortization - $661/2001; $303/2000                             1,937                 6,779
Other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization
  - $90/2001; $52/2000                                                                         352                   561
Other assets                                                                                   522                   223
                                                                                         --------------------------------

TOTAL ASSETS                                                                             $  12,793             $  17,526
                                                                                         ================================

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
  Loans payable                                                                          $     477             $     128
  Accounts payable                                                                             441                   855
  Other accrued liabilities                                                                  1,076                   966
                                                                                         --------------------------------

  Total current liabilities                                                                  1,994                 1,949
                                                                                         --------------------------------

Long-term debt                                                                               4,461                 3,966
Postretirement benefits other than pensions                                                    608                   588
Deferred income taxes                                                                                                 61
Other liabilities                                                                              190                   181
Minority interest in subsidiary companies                                                      119                   139
Convertible preferred stock                                                                      7                     9
Common shareholders' equity:
  Common stock, including excess over par value
    and other capital - par value $0.50 per share;
    Shares authorized: 3.8 billion;
    Shares issued: 1.0 billion/2001 and 2000                                                10,044                 9,512
  (Accumulated deficit) retained earnings                                                   (3,610)                2,001
  Less cost of 79 million/2001 and 76 million/2000
    shares of common stock in treasury                                                        (827)                 (753)
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                        (193)                 (127)
                                                                                         --------------------------------

  Total common shareholders' equity                                                          5,414                10,633
                                                                                         --------------------------------

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY                                               $  12,793             $  17,526
                                                                                         ================================
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

                                       41

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                                                  Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                  Years ended December 31,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                                                                                 2001        2000         1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                       <C>           <C>          <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
   (Loss) income from continuing operations                                               $ (5,498)     $  409       $  511
   Adjustments to reconcile (loss) income from continuing operations
    to net cash provided by operating activities:
      Amortization of purchased intangibles, including goodwill                                439         245           28
      Depreciation                                                                             641         516          376
      Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets                                     4,764
      Nonoperating gains                                                                                    (7)         (30)
      Acquisition-related charges                                                                          463
      Impairment of assets and restructuring charges, net of cash spent                        884                        1
      Inventory write-down                                                                     333
      Stock compensation charges                                                               130          31            7
      Equity in earnings of associated companies in excess of dividends received               (94)       (140)         (61)
      Impairment of equity investment                                                                       36
      Minority interest, net of dividends paid                                                 (22)        (83)          50
      Deferred tax (benefit) expense                                                          (511)        (48)          43
      Interest expense on convertible debentures                                                41           7
      Tax benefit on stock options                                                              27         321           60
      Changes in certain working capital items                                                 241        (402)        (144)
      Other, net                                                                                70          73           26
                                                                                          ------------------------------------

NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES                                                    1,445       1,421          867
                                                                                          ------------------------------------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
   Capital expenditures                                                                     (1,800)     (1,525)        (757)
   Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired                                            (66)     (5,053)        (188)
   Net proceeds from sale or disposal of assets                                                 67          80           68
   Net increase in long-term investments and other long-term assets                           (113)        (56)         (38)
   Short-term investments - acquisitions                                                    (1,320)     (1,482)
   Short-term investments - liquidations                                                       853         767
   Other, net                                                                                    4           5          (18)
                                                                                          ------------------------------------

NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES                                                       (2,375)     (7,264)        (933)
                                                                                          ------------------------------------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
   Net proceeds from (repayments of) short-term debt                                           181        (386)         215
   Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt                                                    735       2,728          347
   Repayments of long-term debt                                                               (104)       (169)         (80)
   Proceeds from issuance of common stock                                                      247       4,744          113
   Repurchases of common stock                                                                                          (96)
   Redemption of common stock for income tax withholding                                       (42)        (57)         (18)
   Dividends paid                                                                             (113)       (211)        (177)
                                                                                          ------------------------------------

NET CASH PROVIDED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES                                                      904       6,649          304
                                                                                          ------------------------------------
Effect of exchange rates on cash                                                                (7)         (5)          (4)
                                                                                          ------------------------------------
Cash (used in) provided by continuing operations                                               (33)        801          234
Cash used in discontinued operations                                                            (9)         (2)         (13)
                                                                                          ------------------------------------
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents                                           (42)        799          221
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                                               1,079         280           59
                                                                                          ------------------------------------

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR                                                  $  1,037      $1,079       $  280
                                                                                          ====================================
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

                                       42

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity                             Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)
                                                                                  Retained               Accumulated
                                                       Capital in                 earnings                  other          Total
                                             Common     excess of    Unearned   (accumulated Treasury   comprehensive  shareholders'
                                              stock     par value  compensation   deficit)     stock    income (loss)     equity
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                         <C>        <C>           <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 1998                  $  133     $  1,042      $ (132)      $ 1,451    $ (790)      $    3       $  1,707

Net income                                                                            516                                   516
Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                      (54)           (54)
Net unrealized gain on investments,
  net of tax                                                                                                  20             20
                                                                                                                       -----------
Total comprehensive income                                                                                                  482

Conversion of monthly income
  preferred securities                                      102                                 263                         365
Shares issued                                    3          160                                                             163
Corning Stock Ownership Trust                               145        (128)                                                 17
Repurchases of shares                                                                           (96)                        (96)
Retirement of treasury shares                               (30)                                 30
Tax benefit from exercise of options                         60                                                              60
Dividends on stock ($0.24 per share)                                                 (177)                                 (177)
Other, net                                                                5                     (63)                        (58)
                                            --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 1999                     136        1,479        (255)        1,790      (656)         (31)         2,463

Net income                                                                            422                                   422
Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                     (118)          (118)
Net unrealized gain on investments,
  net of tax                                                                                                  22             22
                                                                                                                       -----------
Total comprehensive income                                                                                                  326

Shares issued in acquisitions                   10        2,980                                                           2,990
Shares issued in equity offerings               32        4,560                                                           4,592
Other shares issued                              3          261                                                             264
Stock split                                    320         (320)
Corning Stock Ownership Trust                                45         (26)                                                 19
Tax benefit from exercise of options                        321                                                             321
Dividends on stock ($0.24 per share)                                                 (211)                                 (211)
Other, net                                                  (11)        (23)                    (97)                       (131)
                                            --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2000                     501        9,315        (304)        2,001      (753)        (127)        10,633

Net loss                                                                           (5,498)                               (5,498)
Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                      (31)           (31)
Net unrealized gain on investments,
  net of tax                                                                                                 (45)           (45)
Other comprehensive income                                                                                    10             10
                                                                                                                       -----------
Total comprehensive loss                                                                                                 (5,564)

Shares issued in acquisitions                    2          163                                                             165
Shares issued in equity offerings                7          218                                                             225
Other shares issued                              1           78                                                              79
Corning Stock Ownership Trust                              (166)        239                     (33)                         40
Tax benefit from exercise of options                         27                                                              27
Dividends on stock ($0.12 per share)                                                 (113)                                 (113)
Other, net                                                  (97)         60                     (41)                        (78)
                                            --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2001                  $  511     $  9,538      $   (5)      $(3,610)   $ (827)      $ (193)      $  5,414
                                            ======================================================================================
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

                                       43

<PAGE>

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The  consolidated  financial  statements  include the  accounts of all  entities
controlled by Corning and its majority-owned  domestic and foreign subsidiaries,
after  elimination  of all  material  intercompany  accounts,  transactions  and
profits.

The equity method of accounting is used for investments in associated  companies
which are not controlled by Corning and in which Corning's interest is generally
between  20% and 50%.  Corning's  share of  earnings  or  losses  of  associated
companies,  in which at least 20% of the voting securities is owned, is included
in the consolidated  operating  results except for investments  where Corning is
not able to exercise  considerable  influence  over the  operating and financial
decisions of the investee, in which case, the cost method is used.

Certain  amounts for 2000 and 1999 have been  reclassified  to conform with 2001
classifications.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported therein.  Due to the
inherent  uncertainty  involved in making estimates,  actual results reported in
future periods may be based upon amounts that could differ from those estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Corning  recognizes  revenue  when it is  realized  or  realizable  and has been
earned. Product revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists,  the  product  has been  delivered  and  legal  title  and all  risks of
ownership have been transferred,  written contract and sales terms are complete,
customer  acceptance  has occurred and payment is  reasonably  assured.  Corning
reduces revenue for estimated  product  returns,  allowances and price discounts
based on past experience.

Foreign Currencies

Balance  sheet  accounts  of  foreign  subsidiaries  are  translated  at current
exchange rates and income statement  accounts are translated at average exchange
rates for the year.  Translation  gains and  losses are  reported  as a separate
component of accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss).  Foreign currency
transaction  gains and  losses  affecting  cash  flows are  included  in current
earnings.

Corning  enters into foreign  exchange  contracts  primarily  as hedges  against
identifiable  foreign  currency  commitments.  Gains  and  losses  on  contracts
identified as hedges are deferred and included in the measurement of the related
foreign currency  transactions.  Gains and losses on foreign currency contracts,
which are not designated as hedges of foreign currency commitments, are included
in current earnings.

Stock-Based Compensation

Pursuant  to  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)  No.  123,
Accounting for  Stock-Based  Compensation,  Corning  applies the recognition and
measurement  principles of Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion (APB) No. 25 to
its stock options and other stock-based compensation plans.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

All highly liquid  investments with original  maturities of 90 days or less, are
considered cash equivalents.

                                       44

<PAGE>

1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                Years ended December 31,
                                                                                       ----------------------------------------
(In millions)                                                                             2001          2000             1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                    <C>           <C>              <C>
Changes in certain working capital items:
     Accounts receivable                                                               $   677       $  (249)         $  (150)
     Inventories                                                                           (51)         (280)             (81)
     Other current assets                                                                   92          (192)              (9)
     Accounts payable and other current liabilities                                       (477)          319               96
                                                                                       ---------------------------------------
     Total                                                                             $   241       $  (402)         $  (144)
                                                                                       =======================================

Cash paid for interest and income taxes:
     Interest                                                                          $   111       $   132          $   131
     Income taxes, net of refunds                                                      $    99       $   127          $   172
</TABLE>

Short-Term Investments

Corning's  short-term  investments  consist  of debt  securities  classified  as
available-for-sale  which  are  stated  at  estimated  fair  value.  These  debt
securities include U.S. treasury notes, state and municipal bonds,  asset-backed
securities, corporate bonds, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. These
investments are on deposit with a major financial institution.  Unrealized gains
and losses, net of tax, are computed on the basis of specific identification and
are reported as a separate component of accumulated other  comprehensive  income
(loss) in shareholders' equity until realized.

Other Investments

Corning  has  other  cost-based  investments  primarily  in  nonpublicly  traded
companies.  These  investments  are included in Other  Investments  on Corning's
balance sheet and are generally carried at cost. A decline in the value of these
cost-based investments below cost that is deemed other than temporary is charged
to earnings, resulting in a new cost basis for that investment.

Inventories

Inventories  are  stated at the  lower of cost  (first-in,  first-out  basis) or
market.

Property and Depreciation

Land,  buildings and equipment  are recorded at cost.  Depreciation  is based on
estimated  useful  lives of  properties  using  the  straight-line  method.  The
estimated  useful lives range from 20-40 years for  buildings and 3-20 years for
the majority of Corning's equipment.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Investment  costs  in  excess  of the  fair  value of net  assets  acquired  are
amortized  over  appropriate  periods not  exceeding 40 years,  but  principally
ranging from 5 to 25 years for  acquisitions  over the past three  years.  Other
intangible  assets are recorded at cost and  amortized  over  periods  generally
ranging from 5 to 20 years.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

Corning reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets,  including goodwill
and other intangible assets,  when events or changes in circumstances occur that
indicate  that the  carrying  value of the  asset  may not be  recoverable.  The
assessment of possible  impairment is based on Corning's  ability to recover the
carrying  value of the  asset  from  the  expected  future  pre-tax  cash  flows
(undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related operations.  If these
cash flows are less than the carrying value of such asset, an impairment loss is
recognized for the difference  between  estimated fair value and carrying value.
The measurement of impairment  requires management to estimate the fair value of
long-lived assets.

                                       45

<PAGE>

1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Income Taxes

Corning uses the asset and liability approach to account for income taxes. Under
this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected
future tax  consequences of differences  between the carrying  amounts of assets
and liabilities and their respective tax basis using enacted tax rates in effect
for the year in which the  differences  are  expected to reverse.  The effect on
deferred tax assets and  liabilities  of a change in tax rates is  recognized in
income in the period when the change is enacted.

Accounting Changes

Effective January 1, 2001, Corning adopted Financial  Accounting Standards Board
(FASB)  SFAS  No.  133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities,"  as amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138. SFAS No. 133 requires
that  all  derivative  financial  instruments  be  recognized  in the  financial
statements  and measured at fair value  regardless  of the purpose or intent for
holding them. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial  instruments are
either  recognized  periodically in net earnings or shareholders'  equity,  as a
component of other comprehensive income,  depending on whether the derivative is
being used to hedge  changes in fair value or cash flows.  Changes in fair value
of  derivatives  not  designated  as  hedging  instruments  and the  ineffective
portions  of hedges are  recognized  in  earnings  in the  current  period.  The
adoption  of SFAS No.  133 as of  January  1,  2001,  resulted  in a  cumulative
after-tax  credit to  comprehensive  income of $3  million.  For the year  ended
December  31,  2001,  an  after-tax  loss of $4 million  was  recorded  in other
expense,  net for the  ineffective  portion  of cash  flow  hedges.  The  amount
expected to be reclassified from other  comprehensive  income (loss) to earnings
over the next 12 months is approximately $15 million after-tax.

Corning has issued foreign currency denominated debt that has been designated as
a hedge of the net investment in a foreign  operation.  The effective portion of
the  changes  in fair value of the debt is  reflected  as a  component  of other
comprehensive  income  (loss)  as  part  of  the  foreign  currency  translation
adjustment.  During 2001, the after-tax amounts included in other  comprehensive
income (loss) as a result of the net investment hedge was $6 million.

New Accounting Standards

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141,  "Business  Combinations,"  and SFAS
No. 142,  "Goodwill and Other Intangible  Assets." Among other  provisions,  all
future business  combinations will be accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting  and the use of the  pooling-of-interests  method is  prohibited  for
transactions initiated after June 30, 2001. In addition, goodwill will no longer
be amortized but will be subject to impairment tests at least annually. SFAS No.
142 was  effective  for  Corning  on  January  1,  2002.  An  assessment  of the
recoverability  of goodwill  recorded on the date of adoption  must be performed
within one year.  At December  31, 2001,  goodwill  approximated  $1.9  billion.
Corning does not anticipate a transitional  impairment  charge from the adoption
of the standard.

The following table presents a reconciliation  of reported net (loss) income and
(loss)  earnings per share to adjusted net (loss) income and (loss) earnings per
share, as if SFAS No. 142 had been in effect as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                               Years ended December 31,
                                                                                      -----------------------------------------
(In millions)                                                                              2001           2000           1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                   <C>            <C>             <C>
Reported net (loss) income                                                            $  (5,498)     $     422       $    516
Goodwill amortization, net of income taxes                                                  345            203             18
                                                                                      -----------------------------------------
Adjusted net (loss) income                                                            $  (5,153)     $     625       $    534
                                                                                      =========================================

Reported net (loss) income per share - basic                                          $   (5.89)     $    0.49       $   0.67
Goodwill amortization, net of income taxes                                                 0.37           0.24           0.03
                                                                                      -----------------------------------------
Adjusted net (loss) income per share - basic                                          $   (5.52)     $    0.73       $   0.70
                                                                                      =========================================

Reported net (loss) income per share - diluted                                        $   (5.89)     $    0.48       $   0.66
Goodwill amortization, net of income taxes                                                 0.37           0.23           0.02
                                                                                      -----------------------------------------
Adjusted net (loss) income per share - diluted                                        $   (5.52)     $    0.71       $   0.68
                                                                                      =========================================
</TABLE>

In June 2001,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,  "Accounting  for Asset  Retirement
Obligations."  This standard  addresses  financial  accounting and reporting for
obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the
associated asset retirement costs. Corning is required to implement SFAS No. 143
on January 1, 2003.  Corning  does not expect  this  standard to have a material
impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.

                                       46

<PAGE>

1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (concluded)

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144,  "Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal  of  Long-Lived   Assets."  This  standard  supercedes  SFAS  No.  121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be  Disposed  Of." The  standard  retains  the  previously  existing  accounting
requirements  related to the  recognition  and  measurement of the impairment of
long-lived  assets  to  be  held  and  used,  while  expanding  the  measurement
requirements  of  long-lived  assets  to be  disposed  of  by  sale  to  include
discontinued  operations.  It also expands on the previously  existing reporting
requirements  for  discontinued  operations  to include a component of an entity
that either has been disposed of or is  classified as held for sale.  Corning is
required to implement  SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002.  Corning does not expect
this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated  financial  position
or results of operations.

Discontinued Operations

Distribution of Shares of Quest Diagnostics and Covance Inc.

On  December  31,  1996,   Corning   distributed  shares  of  Quest  Diagnostics
Incorporated and Covance Inc.,  which  collectively  comprised  Corning's Health
Care  Services   Segment,   to  its  shareholders  on  a  pro  rata  basis  (the
Distributions).  Corning agreed to indemnify  Quest  Diagnostics on an after-tax
basis for the settlement of certain  government claims and against certain other
claims  that  were   pending  at  December  31,   1996.   Coincident   with  the
Distributions,  Corning recorded a payable to Quest Diagnostics of approximately
$25 million, which was management's best estimate of amounts which were probable
of  being  paid by  Corning  to  Quest  Diagnostics  to  satisfy  the  remaining
indemnified  claims  on  an  after-tax  basis.   Quest  Diagnostics   settled  a
significant matter with the Department of Justice late in 2000 requiring Corning
to reimburse Quest Diagnostics $9 million. As a result, in the fourth quarter of
2000 Corning released  reserves  totaling $13 million after-tax in excess of the
indemnified settlement between Quest Diagnostics and the Department of Justice.

Recapitalization and Sale of the Consumer Housewares Business

On  April  1,  1998,  Corning  completed  the  recapitalization  and  sale  of a
controlling  interest in its  consumer  housewares  business to an  affiliate of
Borden,  Inc.  Corning  received  cash proceeds of $593 million and continues to
retain a 3% interest in World Kitchen Inc.,  formerly Corning Consumer  Products
Company.  During the fourth quarter of 1999 certain  indemnification  agreements
related to this transaction  expired. As a result,  Corning recorded income from
discontinued  operations of $8 million ($5 million after-tax),  from the release
of reserves provided at the date of the transaction.

2.   Business Combinations and Divestitures

Pooling-of-Interests

On January  28,  2000,  Corning  merged  with Oak  Industries,  Inc.  (Oak) in a
pooling-of-interests  transaction. Corning issued 44.3 million shares of Corning
common stock and 8.1 million  options to purchase Oak common  shares to complete
the  transaction.  The  consolidated  financial  statements  for 1999  have been
restated to include the  financial  position and results of  operations  of Oak.
During the first  quarter of 2000,  Corning  recognized  a charge of $47 million
($43 million  after-tax)  for  one-time  acquisition  costs  related to Oak. The
acquisition costs are primarily related to investment  banking,  legal and other
fees of approximately  $30 million.  The charge also included  approximately $17
million of severance and other termination  benefits for Oak corporate  officers
and  headquarters  employees.  Revenues and net income of Oak for the year ended
December 31, 1999, were $444 million and $34 million, respectively.

Purchases

The transactions  listed on the following table were all accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. Management is responsible for estimating the fair
value of the assets and liabilities acquired.  Management has made estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses
resulting  from such  acquisitions.  From time to time  Corning  uses its common
stock as consideration for business combinations.  The value of the common stock
is based upon the average  closing price of Corning  common stock for a range of
days  surrounding  the  agreement  or  announcement  and adjusted for a discount
commensurate with restrictions on the shares, if applicable.

                                       47

<PAGE>

2.   Business Combinations and Divestitures (continued)

Amounts allocated to purchased  in-process  research and development (IPRD) were
established  through  recognized  valuation  techniques  in the high  technology
communications industry.  Certain projects were acquired for which technological
feasibility had not been established at the date of acquisition and for which no
alternative future uses existed.  In accordance with SFAS No. 2, "Accounting for
Research and  Development  Costs" as interpreted by FASB  Interpretation  No. 4,
"Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by
the Purchase  Method,"  amounts assigned to IPRD meeting the above criteria must
be charged to expense at the date of consummation of the purchase.

The value  allocated to projects for which a charge was recorded was  determined
by the traditional  income approach which  discounts  expected future  debt-free
income to present  value.  The discount rates used were specific to each project
and were derived from a cost of capital for each  specific  acquisition  target,
adjusted upward for the stage of completion of each project. The acquired entity
discount  rates ranged from 17% to 35%, and the stage of completion  assigned to
IPRD projects varied from 10% to 90%.

Corning expects that products  incorporating the acquired  technology from these
projects  will be completed and will begin to generate cash flows over the first
five years following integration.

Effective  January  1,  2002,  Corning  adopted  SFAS  No.  142 and  ceased  the
amortization of goodwill as described in Note 1.

The following table presents  information related to Corning's  acquisitions for
the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                         Initial                                  Goodwill &     Amortization
         Acquisition                             Date     Price           Form          IPRD      Intangibles        Life
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>        <C>          <C>               <C>         <C>          <C>
2001
Tropel Corporation (a)                           3/01    $  160          Cash/Stock                 $  155             15
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2000
Pirelli's optical components business (b)       12/00     4,000          Cash/Stock     $323         3,624             13
Champion Products Inc. (c)                      10/00        85                Cash                     69             20
IntelliSense Corporation (d)                     6/00       410       Stock/Options        7           483             13
NetOptix Corporation (e)                         5/00     2,000       Stock/Options                  2,066             10
NZ Applied Technologies (NZAT) (f)               5/00        75       Stock/Options       44            73             10
Photonics Technology Research Center (g)         2/00        66                Cash       42            24              9
Siemens Transaction (h)                          2/00     1,400           Cash/Debt                    650           5-20
Other 2000                                    Various        67                Cash                     64       up to 20
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1999
Corning Japan K.K. (i)                           9/99        32                Cash                     18             20
BICC and Optical Waveguides Australia (j)        4/99       135                Cash                     37           5-25
Other 1999                                    Various        18                Cash                      9       up to 10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(a)  Manufacturer  of  precision  optics  and  metrology   instruments  for  the
     semiconductor  and other  industries.  Purchase price included 1.95 million
     shares valued at $94 million.
(b)  Manufacturer of lithium niobate modulators,  pump lasers, certain specialty
     fibers and fiber gratings used in optical networks.  Purchased from Pirelli
     S.p.A.,  based in Milan,  Italy (90%) and Cisco  Systems  Inc.  (10%),  the
     "Pirelli  transaction",  for $3.6 billion in cash to Pirelli S.p.A. and 5.5
     million shares of Corning common stock valued at approximately $400 million
     to Cisco  Systems.  Corning  impaired  $3,154 million of goodwill and other
     intangible assets in 2001. See Note 5.
(c)  Manufacturer of enclosures, power pedestals, shelters and a unique patented
     design for temperature controlled enclosures for telecommunications.
(d)  Manufacturer of micro-electro-mechanical devices. Purchase of the remaining
     67% interest for 6.1 million  shares of Corning common stock and assumption
     of stock options convertible into 2 million shares of Corning common stock.
     An  additional 1 million  shares  valued at $77 million were issued in 2000
     when certain product milestones were achieved.
(e)  Manufacturer  of thin film  filters  for use in dense  wavelength  division
     multiplexing  components.  Purchase  price  included 33.7 million shares of
     Corning common stock and assumption of stock options  convertible  into 2.5
     million  Corning  shares.  Corning  impaired  $1,610 million of goodwill in
     2001. See Note 5.
(f)  Manufacturer  of photonic  components for  telecommunication  applications.
     Purchase of the  remaining  84% interest for 1.3 million  shares of Corning
     common stock valued at $75 million.  NZAT earned an additional  0.5 million
     shares of Corning common stock valued at $42 million in 2000. An additional
     0.6 million  shares valued at $14 million were issued in 2001 for achieving
     certain product milestones.  NZAT may earn an additional 0.2 million shares
     in 2002 if certain milestones are achieved.
(g)  Acquired from British Telecommunications.
(h)  Purchase of the worldwide optical cable and hardware business of Siemens AG
     and the remaining 50% in Siecor Corporation and Siecor GmbH. Purchase price
     includes  $120  million of  assumed  debt and $145  million  of  contingent
     performance payments to be paid, if earned, over a four-year-period.  Total
     cash paid to Siemens as of December 31, 2001 was $1.1 billion.
(i)  Manufacturer  of flat panel  display  glass  within  Corning's  Information
     Display Segment. Purchase of the remaining 21% interest.
(j)  Purchase of BICC, plc's telecommunications cable business and the remaining
     50% equity interest in Optical Waveguides Australia.


                                       48

<PAGE>

2.   Business Combinations and Divestitures (concluded)

Pending Acquisitions

On July 24,  2001,  Corning  entered  into an  agreement to purchase two Chinese
joint ventures - Lucent  Technologies  Shanghai Fiber Optic Co., Ltd. and Lucent
Technologies  Beijing Fiber Optic Cable Co., Ltd. - from Lucent Technologies for
$225  million.  Corning's  interest  in  each  company  will  be  56%  and  68%,
respectively.  This transaction, which is subject to U.S. and foreign government
approval and other  customary  closing  conditions,  is expected to close in the
first half of 2002.  Corning  expects to include the results of each  company in
its consolidated financial statements beginning at the acquisition date.

Divestitures

On January  31,  2000,  Corning  sold  Quanterra  Incorporated  to Severn  Trent
Laboratories for $35 million.  In the first quarter of 2000,  Corning recorded a
nonoperating  gain of $7 million,  ($4 million  after-tax),  as a result of this
transaction.  Concurrent with management's decision to dispose of this business,
Corning recognized an impairment loss of $15 million ($10 million after-tax), in
the third quarter of 1999. The impairment loss reduced  Corning's  investment in
these assets to an amount equal to management's  current estimate of fair value.
The results of operations of this business were not material to Corning.

During the third  quarter  of 1999,  Corning  sold  Republic  Wire and Cable,  a
manufacturer  of elevator  cables and a subsidiary  of Siecor  Corporation,  for
approximately  $52  million in cash and  short-term  notes.  Corning  recorded a
nonoperating gain of $30 million ($9 million  after-tax and minority  interest),
as a result of this transaction.

3.   Information by Operating Segment

SFAS  No.  131,  "Disclosures  about  Segments  of  an  Enterprise  and  Related
Information,"  set  standards  for  reporting  information  regarding  operating
segments in financial  statements.  Operating segments are defined as components
of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is
evaluated  regularly by the chief  operating  decision maker, or decision making
group,  in deciding  how to allocate  resources  and in  assessing  performance.
Corning's  chief  operating  decision-making  group is  comprised  of the  Chief
Executive Officer and the officers who report to him directly.

Corning's reportable segments include Telecommunications, Advanced Materials and
Information Display. The  Telecommunications  Segment produces optical fiber and
cable,  optical  hardware and  equipment,  photonic  modules and  components and
optical networking devices for the worldwide  telecommunications  industry.  The
Advanced  Materials  Segment  manufactures   specialized  products  with  unique
properties for customer applications  utilizing glass, glass ceramic and polymer
technologies. Businesses within this segment include environmental technologies,
life sciences,  semiconductor  materials and optical and lighting products.  The
Information  Display Segment  manufactures liquid crystal display glass for flat
panel  displays,  glass panels and funnels for televisions and cathode ray tubes
and precision lens assemblies for projection video systems.

Corning  evaluates  performance  based on an after-tax profit measure,  which is
identified  as segment net  income.  During the  quarter  ended March 31,  2001,
Corning realigned one product line from the Advanced  Materials Segment into the
Telecommunications  Segment.  Effective in the fourth  quarter of 2001,  Corning
retroactively   revised  its  segment  net  income  definition  to  include  the
amortization of other intangible assets.  Segment net income excludes impairment
and   amortization  of  goodwill,   impairment  of  other   intangible   assets,
restructuring    actions,     purchased    IPRD    charges,    other    one-time
acquisition-related  charges and other  nonrecurring  items. The segment results
for 2000 and 1999 have been restated to conform to the current presentation. The
accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in
the  summary of  significant  accounting  policies.  The  financial  results for
Corning's  three  operating  segments  have been  prepared  on a basis  which is
consistent with the manner in which Corning management internally  disaggregates
financial information for the purposes of assisting in making internal operating
decisions.  In this regard,  certain common  expenses have been allocated  among
segments   differently   than  would  be  required  for  stand  alone  financial
information  prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Revenue attributed to geographic
areas is based on the location of the customer.


                                       49

<PAGE>

3.   Information by Operating Segment (continued)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Operating Segments                                                             Telecom-      Advanced    Information     Total
(In millions)                                                                 munications    Materials     Display     Segments
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2001

<S>                                                                           <C>           <C>           <C>         <C>
Net Sales                                                                     $  4,458      $   993       $  800      $  6,251
Depreciation (1)                                                                   401          113          122           636
Amortization of purchased intangibles                                               76                                      76
Research, development and engineering expenses (2)                                 474          120           40           634
Interest expense (3)                                                               104           25           23           152
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income tax (benefit) expense                                                       (54)           7           19           (28)
Segment (Loss) Earnings Before Equity Earnings (4)                                 (93)          19           44           (30)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                          12           27          105           144
Segment Net (Loss) Income                                                          (81)          46          149           114
Investment in associated companies, at equity                                      101           61          450           612
Segment assets (5)                                                               3,972          938        1,633         6,543
Capital expenditures                                                               941          131          331         1,403
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2000

Net Sales                                                                     $  5,186      $ 1,021       $  894      $  7,101
Depreciation (1)                                                                   342           87           90           519
Amortization of purchased intangibles                                               29                                      29
Research, development and engineering expenses (2)                                 395          116           29           540
Interest income                                                                      1                                       1
Interest expense (3)                                                                70           18           19           107
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income tax expense                                                                 329           28           47           404
Segment Earnings Before Minority Interest and Equity Earnings (4)                  692           58          114           864
Minority interest in losses (earnings) of subsidiaries                               3                       (27)          (24)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                           1           22          145           168
Segment Net Income                                                                 696           80          232         1,008
Investment in associated companies, at equity                                       34           60          387           481
Segment assets (5)                                                               4,089          900        1,439         6,428
Capital expenditures                                                               944          121          366         1,431
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1999

Net Sales                                                                     $  2,987      $ 1,025       $  701      $  4,713
Depreciation (1)                                                                   215           81           78           374
Amortization of purchased intangibles                                                4                                       4
Research, development and engineering expenses (2)                                 262           93           23           378
Interest income                                                                      9            2            1            12
Interest expense (3)                                                                59           23           11            93
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income tax expense                                                                 146           35           19           200
Segment Earnings Before Minority Interest and Equity Earnings (4)                  341           76           58           475
Minority interest in earnings of subsidiaries                                      (34)                      (23)          (57)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                          15           21           68           104
Segment Net Income                                                                 322           97          103           522
Investment in associated companies, at equity                                       59           50          261           370
Segment assets (5)                                                               2,310          872          990         4,172
Capital expenditures                                                               329          113           60           502
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  Includes an allocation of  depreciation  of corporate  property,  plant and
     equipment not specifically  identifiable to a segment.  Related depreciable
     assets are not allocated to segment assets.
(2)  Non-direct  research,  development and  engineering  expenses are allocated
     based upon direct project spending for each segment.
(3)  Interest  expense is allocated to segments based on a percentage of segment
     net operating assets.  Consolidated  subsidiaries with independent  capital
     structures do not receive additional allocations of interest expense.
(4)  Many of Corning's  administrative  and staff  functions  are performed on a
     centralized  basis.  Where  practicable,  Corning charges these expenses to
     segments  based upon the extent to which each  business  uses a centralized
     function. Other staff functions, such as corporate finance, human resources
     and legal are allocated to segments, primarily as a percentage of sales.
(5)  Includes inventory,  accounts receivable, plant, property and equipment and
     investments in associated equity companies.

                                       50

<PAGE>

3.   Information by Operating Segment (continued)

A  reconciliation  of the totals  reported  for the  operating  segments  to the
applicable line items in the consolidated financial statements is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Years ended December 31,                                                                   2001           2000           1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                   <C>            <C>             <C>
NET SALES
Total segment net sales                                                               $   6,251      $   7,101       $  4,713
Non-segment net sales (1)                                                                    21             26             28
                                                                                      -----------------------------------------
   Total net sales                                                                    $   6,272      $   7,127       $  4,741
                                                                                      =========================================

NET INCOME
Total segment net income (2)                                                          $     114      $   1,008       $    522
   Unallocated items:
Non-segment (loss) income (1)                                                                (5)            12             20
Amortization of goodwill (3)                                                               (363)          (216)           (24)
Acquisition-related charges (4)                                                                           (463)
Impairment and restructuring charges (5)                                                 (5,725)                           (1)
Interest income (6)                                                                          68            104
Income tax (7)                                                                              409             (5)            (2)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                                    4              5              8
Impairment of equity investment                                                                            (36)
Minority interest                                                                                                         (10)
Dividends on convertible preferred securities of subsidiary                                                                (2)
                                                                                      -----------------------------------------
   (Loss) income from continuing operations                                           $  (5,498)     $     409       $    511
                                                                                      =========================================

ASSETS
Total segment assets                                                                  $   6,543      $   6,428       $  4,172
   Non-segment assets:
Property, plant and equipment (8)                                                           636          1,100            829
Investments (9)                                                                              80            140            139
Other assets (10)                                                                         2,811          7,577            800
Remaining corporate assets (11)                                                           2,723          2,281            586
                                                                                      -----------------------------------------
   Total consolidated assets                                                          $  12,793      $  17,526       $  6,526
                                                                                      =========================================
</TABLE>

(1)  Includes  amounts derived from corporate  investments.  Non-segment  (loss)
     income also includes nonoperating gains and losses.  Includes one-time gain
     of $11 million  included in equity earnings from Samsung Corning related to
     divestment of its interest in Samsung Corning Precision in 2000.
(2)  Includes royalty, interest and dividend income.
(3)  Amortization  of  goodwill  relates  primarily  to  the  Telecommunications
     Segment.
(4)  Includes  purchased IPRD which relates primarily to the  Telecommunications
     Segment.
(5)  The 1999  amount  is the net  impact  of a $15  million  impairment  charge
     related to the Advanced  Materials Segment and the release of restructuring
     reserves  totaling $14 million.  See Note 6 for further  discussion  of the
     restructuring  actions and Note 5 for the  impairment of goodwill and other
     intangible  assets in 2001.  The 2001 charge for the impairment of goodwill
     and other intangible assets relates to the Telecommunications  Segment. The
     2001 charge for restructuring  actions relates to the operating segments as
     follows:  Telecommunications  -  $640  million,  Advanced  Materials  - $94
     million,   Information  Display  -  $36  million  and  corporate  functions
     including research - $191 million.
(6)  Corporate interest income is not allocated to reportable segments.
(7)  Includes tax  associated  with the impairment  and  restructuring  charges,
     amortization  of purchased  intangibles  and goodwill,  acquisition-related
     charges and nonoperating gains.
(8)  Represents  corporate  property,   plant  and  equipment  not  specifically
     identifiable to a segment.
(9)  Represents corporate investments in associated companies,  both at cost and
     at equity.
(10) Includes   long-term   corporate  assets,   primarily  goodwill  and  other
     intangible assets, pension assets and deferred taxes.
(11) Includes current corporate assets,  primarily cash, short-term  investments
     and deferred taxes.


                                       51

<PAGE>

3.   Information by Operating Segment (continued)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                     Segment       Reconciling     Consolidated
Other Significant Items                                                               Total        Adjustments         Total
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                  <C>              <C>             <C>
2001
Depreciation                                                                         $  636           $  5            $  641
Interest expense                                                                        152              1               153
Income taxes                                                                            (28)          (424)             (452)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                              144              4               148
Minority interest                                                                                       13                13
Investment in associated companies, at equity                                           612             24               636
Capital expenditures                                                                  1,403            273 (2)         1,676 (3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2000
Depreciation                                                                         $  519           $ (3)           $  516
Income taxes                                                                            404              3               407
Equity in earnings of associated companies (1)                                          168             17               185
Minority interest                                                                       (24)                             (24)
Investment in associated companies, at equity                                           481             13               494
Capital expenditures                                                                  1,431            290 (2)         1,721 (3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1999
Depreciation                                                                         $  374           $  2            $  376
Income taxes                                                                            200              7               207
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                              104              8               112
Minority interest                                                                       (57)           (10)              (67)
Investment in associated companies, at equity                                           370             57               427
Capital expenditures                                                                    502            255 (2)           757
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  Includes a nonoperating  gain of $11 million  (Corning's share) recorded by
     Samsung  Corning  upon  divestment  of  its  interest  in  Samsung  Corning
     Precision in 2000.
(2)  Includes  capital  spending on shared research  facilities of $147 million,
     $116 million and $135 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
(3)  Represents  committed capital  expenditures in the period including amounts
     accrued at December 31, 2001 and 2000.


                                       52

<PAGE>

3.   Information by Operating Segment (concluded)

Information concerning principal geographic areas was as follows (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               2001                           2000                          1999
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        Net        Long-lived           Net       Long-lived         Net        Long-lived
                                       Sales       Assets (1)          Sales      Assets (1)        Sales       Assets (1)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                  <C>           <C>                <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>
North America
   United States                     $ 2,859       $   6,249          $ 3,581      $   7,516      $  2,793      $  3,428
   Canada                                239              54              848             95           473            93
   Mexico                                 85               3               98             83            67            58
                                     ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total North America             3,183           6,306            4,527          7,694         3,333         3,579

Asia Pacific
   Japan                                 518             264              575            257           392           148
   China                                 520             170              143            121            79            38
   Korea                                  50             454               67            385            51           265
   Other                                 373              79              127             52            80            46
                                     ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total Asia Pacific              1,461             967              912            815           602           497

Europe
   Germany                               447             484              465            505           189            91
   France                                146             123              257            115           108            92
   United Kingdom                        224              97              243            173           133           150
   Italy                                 114             319               69          3,489            53             3
   Other                                 490              37              419             47           208            57
                                     ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total Europe                    1,421           1,060            1,453          4,329           691           393

Latin America
   Brazil                                 59               7               59             20            44            21
   Other                                  39               3               22              7            13
                                     ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total Latin America                98              10               81             27            57            21

All Other                                109              32              154             27            58             8
                                     ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total                         $ 6,272       $   8,375          $ 7,127      $  12,892      $  4,741      $  4,498
                                     ========================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1)  Long-lived  assets  primarily  include  investments,  plant and  equipment,
     goodwill and other intangible assets.

4.   Inventory Write-down

During the second quarter, major customers in the photonic technologies business
reduced their order forecasts and canceled  orders already placed.  As a result,
management  determined that certain products were not likely to be sold in their
product life cycle.  Corning recorded a charge to write-down excess and obsolete
inventory,  including  estimated  purchase  commitments,  of $273 million  ($184
million after-tax) in cost of sales in the second quarter of 2001. In the fourth
quarter,  Corning  recorded an  additional  charge of $60 million  ($37  million
after-tax) in cost of sales for excess and obsolete  inventory  primarily in the
photonic technologies business in response to continued weak demand.

5.   Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

During the first half of 2001, Corning experienced a significant decrease in the
rate of growth of its  Telecommunications  Segment,  primarily  in the  photonic
technologies business,  due to a dramatic decline in infrastructure  spending in
the telecommunications  industry.  During the second quarter, major customers in
the photonic  technologies  business  reduced their order forecasts and canceled
orders  already  placed.  As a result,  management  determined  that the  growth
prospects of this business were significantly less than previously  expected and
those of historical periods.


                                       53

<PAGE>

5.   Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (concluded)

Corning reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets,  including goodwill
and other intangible assets,  when events or changes in circumstances occur that
indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable.  As a result of
the business  conditions noted above,  Corning  concluded such an assessment was
required for its photonic technologies  business in the second quarter.  Corning
assesses  recoverability  of the carrying value based upon  cumulative  expected
future pre-tax cash flows  (undiscounted  and without  interest  charges) of the
related operations.

As a  result  of this  test,  Corning  determined  that the  long-lived  assets,
including goodwill and other intangibles  acquired from the Pirelli  transaction
in December 2000, as well as those of the unit into which  NetOptix  Corporation
(acquired  in May  2000) had been  integrated  were not  recoverable.  Corning's
policy is to write-down long-lived assets to fair value in such circumstances.

Management  estimated  fair value using  several  techniques.  While each method
generated  comparable fair values,  management  adjusted the assets to estimates
based on average  multiples of  forecasted  revenues and earnings of  comparable
publicly  traded  companies  with  operations  in the optical  component  market
segment.

In the second  quarter,  Corning  recorded  pre-tax charges of $4,648 million to
impair a  significant  portion of  goodwill  and $116  million  to impair  other
intangible assets. Of the total charge of $4,764 million, $3,154 million related
to the Pirelli transaction and $1,610 million related to goodwill resulting from
the acquisition of NetOptix Corporation.

6.   Restructuring Actions

Corning has approved and executed several  restructuring  actions throughout the
year. These actions and the charges relating to them are described below.

In the first quarter of 2001,  Corning  reduced its  workforce by  approximately
3,300  positions,  primarily  in the  photonic  technologies  and  hardware  and
equipment   businesses.   These  workforce  reductions  included  mostly  hourly
production  workers and resulted in minimal  severance  charges.  In April 2001,
Corning  completed an  additional  workforce  reduction of  approximately  1,000
positions  in  photonic   technologies,   including  both  hourly  and  salaried
employees.  The second quarter reductions resulted in a restructuring  charge of
$8 million ($5 million after-tax).

In the third quarter of 2001,  additional  actions were approved and undertaken,
primarily in the Telecommunications Segment, which included the following:

-    closure of three  manufacturing  facilities  in the  photonic  technologies
     business, resulting in the elimination of approximately 800 positions, and
-    elimination of approximately 2,900 positions worldwide in the optical fiber
     and cable  business.  This  action  included a voluntary  early  retirement
     program for certain employees along with involuntary separations.

As a result of these  actions,  Corning  recorded a total charge of $339 million
($222 million  after-tax) which included a restructuring  charge of $103 million
and a charge to impair plant and equipment of $236 million in the third quarter.
The restructuring  charge included $6 million for net pension and postretirement
benefit curtailment charges.

In  response  to the  continued  deteriorating  business  condition,  management
approved and recorded the following restructuring actions in the fourth quarter:

-    closure or  consolidation  of several  manufacturing  locations  as well as
     smaller businesses across all operating segments,
-    discontinuation  of  its  initiative  in  Corning   Microarray   Technology
     products, part of Corning's life sciences business, and
-    further  headcount  reduction of  approximately  4,000 positions across all
     businesses,  research and staff organizations.  This action also included a
     selective  voluntary early retirement  program for certain  employees along
     with involuntary separations.

As a result of actions taken in the fourth quarter, Corning recorded a charge in
the quarter of $614 million ($363 million after-tax and minority interest) which
included a restructuring charge of $308 million and a charge to impair plant and
equipment of $306 million.  The  restructuring  charge  included $35 million for
pension and postretirement  termination benefits and $25 million for net pension
and postretirement benefit curtailment charges.


                                       54

<PAGE>

6.   Restructuring Actions (concluded)

The  carrying  value of a  long-lived  asset  is  considered  impaired  when the
expected  separately  identifiable  undiscounted  cash flows from that asset are
less  than  the  carrying  value  of the  asset.  The  impairment  charges  were
determined  based on the amount by which the  carrying  value  exceeded the fair
market value of the asset.

A significant portion of the assets impaired was recently acquired,  or built in
connection with capacity  expansions in  anticipation of future demand.  Most of
the  impaired  facilities  are  currently  available  for sale,  others  will be
demolished.  The impaired equipment will be auctioned,  sold, or disposed during
2002.

The facilities  closed in the year primarily relate to the photonics and optical
fiber and cable  businesses  that Corning is not exiting.  The operations  being
exited comprise the majority of the lighting business of the Advanced  Materials
Segment.  This  business is not  material  to  Corning's  revenues or  financial
results.

In summary,  Corning's  restructuring  actions  totaled  $961 million in pre-tax
charges for the year ended  December 31, 2001,  of which $95 million  related to
exit costs primarily for lease  termination and contract  cancellation  charges.
Approximately one third of this total charge is expected to be paid in cash. The
total number of positions  eliminated was  approximately  12,000. As of December
31, 2001,  approximately 10,100 of the 12,000 employees had been separated under
the plans.

Non-cash  charges for employee  related  costs were $66 million with $35 million
for  pension and  postretirement  termination  benefits  and $31 million for net
pension and postretirement benefit curtailment charges. Curtailment charges were
recorded primarily due to the decrease in expected future years of service.  The
following  table   illustrates  the  charges,   activity  and  balances  of  the
restructuring reserve as of December 31, 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(In millions, except headcounts)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Non-            Net Cash         Remaining
                                                 Total          Cash            Payments        Reserve at
                                                Charges        Charges           in 2001     December 31, 2001
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                            <C>            <C>               <C>              <C>
Restructuring charges:
Employee related costs                         $    324       $      66         $     60         $     198
Other charges                                        95                               17                78
                                               -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total restructuring charges                $    419       $      66         $     77         $     276
                                               -----------------------------------------------------------

Impairment of long-lived assets:
Assets held for use                            $     46       $      46
Assets held for disposal                            496             496
                                               ------------------------
    Total impairment charges                   $    542       $     542
                                               ------------------------

Total restructuring actions                    $    961       $     608         $     77         $     276
                                               ===========================================================

After-tax and minority interest                $    590
                                               ========
</TABLE>

The following table  illustrates the headcount  reduction  amongst U.S.  Hourly,
U.S. Salaried and Non-U.S. positions:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Headcount reduction
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               U.S. Hourly     U.S. Salaried     Non-U.S.            Total
                                               -----------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                               <C>             <C>              <C>              <C>
Headcount reduction                               6,000           3,100            2,900            12,000
                                               ===========================================================
</TABLE>


                                       55

<PAGE>

7.   Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                       December 31,
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                              2001                       2000
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   <S>                                                                                    <C>                        <C>
   Finished goods                                                                         $    251                   $    300
   Work in process                                                                             153                        263
   Raw materials and accessories                                                               210                        377
   Supplies and packing materials                                                              111                        100
                                                                                          ---------------------------------------
   Total inventories                                                                      $    725                   $  1,040
                                                                                          =======================================
</TABLE>

8.   Income Taxes
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)  Years ended December 31,                                                       2001        2000           1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                      <C>             <C>           <C>
(Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes:
   U.S. companies                                                                        $  (2,945)      $ 762         $  527
   Non-U.S. companies                                                                       (3,166)        (71)           148
                                                                                         ----------------------------------------

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes                             $  (6,111)      $ 691         $  675
                                                                                         ----------------------------------------

(Benefit) provision for income taxes                                                     $    (452)      $ 407         $  207
                                                                                         ----------------------------------------

Effective tax rate reconciliation:
   Statutory U.S. income (benefit) tax rate                                                  (35.0)%      35.0%          35.0%
   State income (benefit) tax, net of federal benefit                                         (0.8)        3.9            0.8
   Nondeductible goodwill and other expenses                                                  28.6        28.9            0.8
   Foreign and other tax credits                                                              (0.3)                      (0.4)
   Lower taxes on subsidiary earnings                                                         (0.3)       (7.4)          (2.4)
   Valuation allowance                                                                         0.5        (0.8)           2.4
   Other items, net                                                                           (0.1)       (0.7)          (5.5)
                                                                                         ----------------------------------------

Effective income tax (benefit) rate                                                           (7.4)%      58.9%          30.7%
                                                                                         ========================================

Current and deferred (benefit) provision for income taxes:
Current:
   Federal                                                                               $     (23)      $ 306         $   93
   State and municipal                                                                           9          66              3
   Foreign                                                                                      73          83             68
Deferred:
   Federal                                                                                    (404)        (37)            40
   State and municipal                                                                         (71)        (17)             6
   Foreign                                                                                     (36)          6             (3)
                                                                                         ----------------------------------------

(Benefit) provision for income taxes                                                     $    (452)      $ 407         $  207
                                                                                         ========================================
</TABLE>


                                       56

<PAGE>

8.   Income Taxes (concluded)

The tax effects of temporary  differences  and  carryforwards  that gave rise to
significant  portions of the  deferred tax assets and  liabilities  included the
following (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                          December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                2001                       2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       <S>                                                                   <C>                         <C>
       Loss and tax credit carryforwards                                     $   264                     $  114
       Restructuring reserves                                                    254                          3
       Postretirement medical and life benefits                                  243                        235
       Inventory                                                                 131                         53
       Intangible and other assets                                               100                         15
       Other accrued liabilities                                                  74                         49
       Other employee benefits                                                    19                         33
       Other                                                                      14                          5
                                                                             -------------------------------------

       Gross deferred tax assets                                               1,099                        507
       Deferred tax assets valuation allowance                                  (135)                       (45)
                                                                             -------------------------------------

       Deferred tax assets                                                       964                        462
                                                                             -------------------------------------

       Fixed assets                                                             (261)                      (256)
       Pensions                                                                  (37)                       (42)
       Other                                                                      (6)                       (52)
                                                                             -------------------------------------

       Deferred tax liabilities                                                 (304)                      (350)
                                                                             -------------------------------------

       Net deferred tax assets                                               $   660                     $  112
                                                                             =====================================
</TABLE>

The change in the total  valuation  allowance  for the years ended  December 31,
2001 and 2000,  was an  increase  of $90  million  and a decrease of $6 million,
respectively.

Corning currently provides income taxes on the earnings of foreign  subsidiaries
and associated companies to the extent they are currently taxable or expected to
be remitted.  Taxes have not been provided on $1 billion of accumulated  foreign
unremitted earnings which are expected to remain invested indefinitely.

Corning, as required, provided for tax on undistributed earnings of its domestic
subsidiaries  and  affiliated  companies  beginning  in 1993 even  though  these
earnings  have been and will  continue to be  reinvested  indefinitely.  Corning
estimates  that $32  million of tax would be payable on  pre-1993  undistributed
earnings  of its  domestic  subsidiaries  and  affiliated  companies  should the
unremitted earnings reverse and become taxable to Corning. Corning expects these
earnings to be reinvested indefinitely.

At  December  31,  2001,   Corning  had  tax  benefits   attributable   to  loss
carryforwards and credits  aggregating $264 million that expire at various dates
beginning in 2002 through 2021, if not  utilized.  A significant  portion of the
tax benefits for which no valuation allowance has been provided relate to United
States loss  carryforwards.  Although  realization  is not assured,  Corning has
concluded  that  it is  more  likely  than  not  that  the  United  States  loss
carryforwards will be realized prior to their expiration date.

9.   Investments

Short-Term Investments

Short-term  investments  held by  Corning  are  debt  securities  classified  as
available-for-sale. Corning invests in publicly traded, highly liquid securities
of entities with credit  ratings of A, or better.  Unrealized  gains and losses,
net of related income taxes, for available-for-sale securities are included as a
separate  component of  shareholders'  equity.  Corning  determines  cost on the
specific identification basis.

                                       57

<PAGE>

9.   Investments (continued)

Investments in short-term securities were as follows (dollars in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Amortized        Fair           Unrealized
December 31, 2001                                Cost           Value             Gains
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>            <C>               <C>
Bonds, notes, and other securities
    United States government and agencies      $    262       $     262
    States and municipalities                       206             206
    Asset-backed securities                         365             369         $      4
    Corporate bonds                                 206             206
    Commercial paper                                 20              20
    Certificates of deposit                          16              16
    Other debt securities                           103             103
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total short-term investments             $  1,178       $   1,182         $      4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Amortized        Fair           Unrealized
December 31, 2000                                Cost           Value             Gains
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>            <C>               <C>
Bonds, notes, and other securities
    States and municipalities                  $    303       $     303
    Asset-backed securities                         175             176         $      1
    Corporate bonds                                 147             147
    Commercial paper                                 32              32
    Certificates of deposit                          36              36
    Other debt securities                            21              21
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total short-term investments             $    714       $     715         $      1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Unrealized losses were under $1 million in 2001 and 2000.

All of these  securities are available for immediate  sale. The following  table
summarizes the contractual maturities of debt securities at December 31, 2001:

                                               Amortized        Fair
                                                 Cost           Value
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Less than one year                             $    138       $     138
Due in 1-2 years                                    379             379
Due in 2-5 years                                    434             438
Due after 5 years                                   227             227
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                                     $  1,178       $   1,182
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proceeds  from sales of  short-term  investments  totaled  $660 million and $710
million in 2001 and 2000.  Proceeds from  maturities  of short-term  investments
totaled $193 million and $57 million in 2001 and 2000.  The gross realized gains
related to sales of short-term  investments were $2 million in 2001 and under $1
million  in 2000.  The gross  realized  losses  related  to sales of  short-term
investments were $2 million in 2001 and under $1 million in 2000.


                                       58

<PAGE>

9.   Investments (continued)

Associated Companies at Equity

Samsung Corning Company Ltd.  (Samsung  Corning),  a 50%-owned South Korea-based
manufacturer  of glass panels and funnels for television  and display  monitors,
represented $315 million and $285 million of Corning's investments accounted for
by the equity method at year-end 2001 and 2000, respectively.

The  financial  position  and  results  of  operations  of Samsung  Corning  and
Corning's other equity companies are summarized as follows (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Years ended December 31,                              2001                       2000                      1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Samsung       Total       Samsung        Total       Samsung      Total
                                               Corning      Equity       Corning       Equity       Corning     Equity
                                              Co. Ltd.     Companies    Co. Ltd.      Companies    Co. Ltd.    Companies
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                          <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>
Net sales                                    $    886      $ 1,892       $  1,011     $  1,739     $    965    $  1,831
Gross profit                                      244          648            346          650          276         583
Net income                                        107          340            211          366           97         244
                                             -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Corning's equity in net income (1)           $     51      $   148       $    104     $    185     $     48    $    112
                                             -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current assets                               $    332      $   821       $    410     $  1,091     $    275    $    608
Long-lived assets                                 872        1,398            866        1,311        1,007       1,335
                                             -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current liabilities                          $    174      $   557       $    293     $    823     $    282    $    466
Long-term debt                                    164          220            152          275          299         376
Long-term liabilities                             173          198            178          217          214         256
                                             -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  Equity in earnings shown above and in the Consolidated Statements of Income
     is net of amounts recorded for income tax.

Dividends  received from Samsung  Corning and Corning's  other equity  companies
totaled  $73  million,  $45  million  and $51  million  in 2001,  2000 and 1999,
respectively.  At December  31,  2001,  approximately  $536 million of equity in
undistributed earnings of equity companies was included in Corning's accumulated
deficit.

Samsung  Corning's 2000 results include a nonoperating  gain of $23 million from
the sale of its  interest  in  Samsung  Corning  Precision  Glass  Company  Ltd.
(Samsung Corning Precision). Corning's 50% share of this gain is included in its
equity earnings. Corning continues to maintain a 50% interest in Samsung Corning
Precision.

                                       59

<PAGE>

9.   Investments (continued)

Dow Corning Corporation

Corning is a 50% owner of Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning),  a manufacturer
of silicones.  The other 50% of Dow Corning is owned by The Dow Chemical Company
(Dow Chemical).

On May  15,  1995,  Dow  Corning  sought  protection  under  the  reorganization
provisions  of Chapter  11 of the  United  States  Bankruptcy  Code and  thereby
obtained  a  stay  of  approximately  19,000  breast-implant  product  liability
lawsuits.  On November 8, 1998,  Dow  Corning and the Tort  Claimants  Committee
jointly filed a revised Plan of Reorganization  (Joint Plan) which was confirmed
by the  Bankruptcy  Court on November  30,  1999.  On  December  21,  1999,  the
Bankruptcy  Court issued an opinion that approved the principal  elements of the
Joint  Plan with  respect to tort  claimants,  but  construed  the Joint Plan as
providing  releases  for third  parties  (including  Corning and Dow Chemical as
shareholders)  only with  respect  to tort  claimants  who voted in favor of the
Joint Plan. On November 13, 2000, the District Court entered an Order  reversing
the Bankruptcy  Court's  December 21, 1999 Opinion on the release and injunction
provisions  and confirmed the Joint Plan. On October 23, 2001, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit  heard oral  arguments on appeals taken by foreign
claimants,  the U.S. government and certain tort claimants from various portions
of the District  Court's order. On January 29, 2002, the Sixth Circuit  affirmed
the  determinations  made in the  District  Court with  respect  to the  foreign
claimants,  but  remanded to the  District  Court for further  proceedings  with
respect to the claims of the U.S.  government  for recovery of medical  expenses
paid on behalf of tort claimants and with respect to the findings supporting the
non-debtor  releases in favor of Dow Corning's  shareholders and insurers.  As a
result of the remand,  there may be additional  hearings in the District  Court.
The timing and scope of the  proceedings  on remand are not known at this point,
and the  Sixth  Circuit's  ruling  adds some  uncertainty  with  respect  to the
ultimate  confirmation  of the Joint  Plan.  If the Joint Plan is upheld but the
shareholder  releases are not given their full effect,  Corning  would expect to
defend any remaining  claims against it (and any new claims) on the same grounds
that led to a series of orders  and  judgments  dismissing  all  claims  against
Corning in the federal  courts and in many state courts as  described  under the
heading Implant Tort Lawsuits in Legal Proceedings (Item 3). Management believes
that  the  claims  against  Corning  lack  merit  and that  the  breast  implant
litigation against Corning will be resolved without material impact on Corning's
financial statements.

Under the terms of the Joint Plan,  Dow Corning would be required to establish a
Settlement Trust and a Litigation Facility to provide a means for tort claimants
to settle or litigate  their claims.  Dow Corning  would have the  obligation to
fund the Trust and the Facility,  over a period of up to 16 years,  in an amount
up to  approximately  $3.3  billion,  subject  to  the  limitations,  terms  and
conditions  stated in the Joint Plan.  Corning and Dow Chemical have each agreed
to provide a credit  facility to Dow Corning of up to $150 million ($300 million
in the aggregate), subject to the terms and conditions stated in the Joint Plan.
The Joint Plan also provides for Dow Corning to make full payment,  through cash
and the issuance of senior notes,  to its commercial  creditors.  The commercial
creditors have contested the Bankruptcy Court's disallowance of their claims for
post-petition  interest at default  rates of interest,  and have appealed to the
District  Court.  While the  amounts at issue on this  appeal  are  subject to a
variety of  contingencies,  it is possible that the aggregate claim exceeds $100
million.  Dow  Corning is  vigorously  contesting  the  appeal.  If and when Dow
Corning  emerges from  bankruptcy,  Corning expects to resume the recognition of
equity earnings from Dow Corning.  Corning does not expect to receive  dividends
from Dow Corning in the foreseeable future.

                                       60

<PAGE>

9.   Investments (continued)

The financial position and results of operations of Dow Corning are summarized
in the table below as follows (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                            Years ended December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                          2001         2000        1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                   <C>          <C>         <C>
Net sales                                                                             $  2,438     $  2,751    $  2,603
Gross profit                                                                               622          814         772
Net income (loss)                                                                          (23)         105         110
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current assets                                                                        $  2,027     $  1,794    $  1,602
Long-lived assets                                                                        3,114        4,677       4,625
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current liabilities                                                                   $    882     $    947    $    770
Long-term debt                                                                              39           92         117
Long-term liabilities                                                                      219          257         250
Liabilities subject to compromise (1)                                                    3,524        4,618       4,592
Shareholders' equity                                                                       477          556         498
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  Dow  Corning's  financial  statements  for  2001,  2000 and 1999  have been
     prepared in  conformity  with the American  Institute  of Certified  Public
     Accountants'  Statement of Position 90-7,  "Financial Reporting by Entities
     in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code," (SOP 90-7). SOP 90-7 requires
     a segregation of liabilities  subject to compromise by the Bankruptcy Court
     as of the filing date (May 15, 1995) and identification of all transactions
     and events that are directly associated with the reorganization.

Pittsburgh Corning Corporation

Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. each own 50% of the capital stock of Pittsburgh
Corning  Corporation  (PCC). PCC and several other defendants have been named in
numerous  lawsuits  involving  claims alleging  personal injury from exposure to
asbestos.  On April 16,  2000,  PCC filed for Chapter 11  reorganization  in the
United States  Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.  As of
the bankruptcy  filing,  PCC had in excess of 140,000 open claims and now has in
excess  of  240,000  open  claims.  In the  bankruptcy  court,  PCC  obtained  a
preliminary  injunction  against the prosecution of asbestos actions against its
two shareholders to afford the parties a period of time (the Injunction  Period)
in which to negotiate a plan of  reorganization  for PCC. The Injunction  Period
has been  extended  until  April 15,  2002.  Under  the terms of the  Bankruptcy
Court's  Order,  PCC, PPG  Industries  and Corning  will have 90 days  following
expiration of the Injunction Period to seek removal and transfer of stayed cases
that have not been  resolved  through a plan of  reorganization.  As a result of
PCC's bankruptcy filing,  Corning recorded an after-tax charge of $36 million in
the  first  quarter  of  2000  to  impair  its  entire  investment  in  PCC  and
discontinued  recognition  of  equity  earnings.  At  the  time  PCC  filed  for
bankruptcy  protection,  there were approximately  12,400 claims pending against
Corning  alleging  various  theories  of  liability  based on  exposure to PCC's
asbestos products. Although the outcome of litigation and the bankruptcy case is
uncertain,  management  believes that the separate  corporate status of PCC will
continue to be upheld. Management is continuing to investigate Corning's options
for defending claims against it, which might include vigorously defending itself
on all fronts, or exploring a global settlement through the bankruptcy  process.
It is probable that there will be intensive  negotiations  throughout  the first
half of 2002 concerning terms of PCC's plan of reorganization, including whether
or not Corning and its  insurers may  participate  by making a  contribution  in
exchange for a release.  Management cannot estimate the probability that Corning
will be able to secure such a release upon terms and conditions  satisfactory to
Corning and its insurers. The range of cost for these options (net of insurance)
cannot be estimated at this time.  Although  asbestos  litigation  is inherently
difficult, and the outcome of litigation is uncertain, management believes these
matters  will be  resolved  without a  materially  adverse  impact on  Corning's
financial  position.  If Corning and its insurers  agree to a global  settlement
through the bankruptcy  process,  such outcome may be material to the results of
operations of the period in which such costs, if any, are recognized.

                                       61

<PAGE>

9.   Investments (concluded)

Other Investments

Corning's other investments  include equity securities,  which are classified as
available-for-sale.  At December 31, 2001,  the fair value and cost of Corning's
equity  securities  was  $142  million  and  $148  million,   respectively.  The
difference includes gross unrealized losses of $6 million. At December 31, 2000,
the fair value and cost of Corning's equity  securities was $156 million and $89
million,  respectively.  The difference  includes gross  unrealized gains of $67
million.  The net  change in the  unrealized  gain  (loss) on other  investments
classified as  available-for-sale  included as a component of accumulated  other
comprehensive  income (loss) was $74 million and $36 million for the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Proceeds  from sales of other  investments  were $38  million and $16 million in
2001 and 2000,  respectively,  and related net realized gains included in income
were $22 million and $27 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

10.  Plant and Equipment

Plant and equipment included the following (in millions):

                                                     December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           2001                      2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Land                                $     97                  $     84
   Buildings                              1,808                     1,627
   Equipment                              4,977                     4,455
   Construction in progress               1,282                     1,175
                                       ------------------------------------
                                          8,164                     7,341
   Accumulated depreciation              (3,067)                   (2,662)
                                       ------------------------------------
   Plant and equipment, net            $  5,097                  $  4,679
                                       ====================================

Approximately  $49 million,  $57 million and $41 million of interest  costs were
capitalized as part of plant and equipment in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

11.  Other Accrued Liabilities

Other accrued liabilities included the following (in millions):

                                                     December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           2001                      2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes                           $    139                  $    186
Restructuring reserves                      276
Wages and employee benefits                 230                       301
Other liabilities                           431                       479
                                       ------------------------------------
Other accrued liabilities              $  1,076                  $    966
                                       ====================================

                                       62

<PAGE>

12.  Long-Term Debt and Loans Payable
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                  December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                                                                            2001                      2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                  <C>                       <C>
Loans Payable
    Current portion of long-term debt                                                $    244                  $    128
    Other short-term borrowings                                                           233
                                                                                     ------------------------------------

                                                                                     $    477                  $    128
                                                                                     ====================================

Long-Term Debt
    Series B senior notes, 8.25%, due 2002                                                                     $     14
    Debentures, 8.25%, due 2002                                                      $     75                        75
    Debentures, 6%, due 2003                                                              100                       100
    Euro notes, 5.625%, due 2005                                                          178                       180
    Debentures, 7%, due 2007, net of unamortized discount of
      $28 million in 2001 and $32 million in 2000                                          72                        68
    Convertible notes, 4.875%, due 2008                                                    96                        99
    Convertible debentures, 3.5%, due 2008                                                665
    Notes, 6.3%, due 2009                                                                 150                       150
    Euro notes, 6.25%, due 2010                                                           267                       270
    Debentures, 6.75%, due 2013                                                           100                       100
    Zero coupon convertible debentures, 2%, due 2015, redeemable
      and callable in 2005                                                              2,059                     2,018
    Debentures, 8.875%, due 2016                                                           74                        74
    Debentures, 8.875%, due 2021                                                           75                        75
    Debentures, 7.625%, putable in 2004, due 2024                                         100                       100
    Medium-term notes, average rate 7.9%, due through 2025                                231                       254
    Debentures, 6.85%, due 2029                                                           150                       150
    Other, average rate 4.4%, due through 2015                                            313                       367
                                                                                    -------------------------------------

    Total long-term debt                                                                4,705                     4,094
    Less current maturities                                                               244                       128
                                                                                    -------------------------------------

    Long-term debt                                                                  $   4,461                  $  3,966
                                                                                    =====================================
</TABLE>

At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the weighted-average  interest rate on short-term
borrowings was 4.6% and 6.1%, respectively.

The following  table shows the  maturities by year of the total  long-term  debt
obligations at December 31:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 2002            2003               2004             2005            2006-2029
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 $244            $173               $38             $2,411             $2,003
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The zero coupon  convertible  debentures are presented in the above table as due
in 2005 representing the earliest possible redemption date.

Based on borrowing rates  currently  available to Corning for loans with similar
terms and  maturities,  the fair  value of  long-term  debt was $4.0  billion at
year-end 2001.

In February  1998,  Oak issued $100 million of  convertible  subordinated  notes
bearing  interest  at  4.875%,  due in 2008.  The notes are  convertible  into 6
million  shares of Corning common stock at a conversion  price of  approximately
$16 per share.

                                       63

<PAGE>

12.  Long-Term Debt and Loans Payable (concluded)

In February 2000,  Corning issued EUR 500 million of  Euro-denominated  notes in
two  tranches:  EUR 200  million at 5.625%,  due  February  18, 2005 and EUR 300
million at 6.25%,  due February  18, 2010.  Interest is payable on February 1 of
each year beginning in 2001.  The notes are not  redeemable  before they mature,
unless Corning becomes obligated to pay additional amounts because of changes in
U.S. withholding tax requirements.

In November 2000,  Corning  completed an offering of $2.7 billion (amount due at
maturity) of zero coupon convertible  debentures which generated net proceeds of
approximately $2.0 billion. The initial price of the debentures was $741.92 with
a 2% annual yield.  Interest is compounded  semi-annually  with a 25% conversion
factor.  The  debentures  mature on November 8, 2015, and are  convertible  into
approximately  23 million  shares of Corning  common stock at the rate of 8.3304
per $1,000  debenture.  Corning may call the  debentures at any time on or after
November 8, 2005. The debentures may be redeemed for $819.54 on November 8, 2005
and  $905.29 on November 8, 2010.  The holder can  convert  the  debenture  into
Corning common stock at any time prior to maturity or redemption.

In November 2001,  Corning completed a convertible debt offering of $665 million
due November 1, 2008 and  convertible  into  approximately  69 million shares of
common stock.  Each $1,000 debenture was issued at par and pays interest of 3.5%
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The debentures are available
for  conversion  into  103.3592  shares  of  Corning  common  stock  if  certain
conditions  are met.  Corning may  repurchase  securities at certain  redemption
prices beginning on November 8, 2004.

Corning has  available a revolving  line of credit with a syndicate of banks for
$2.0  billion.  The  line of  credit  expires  in  August  2005.  There  were no
borrowings  under the  agreement  at December  31, 2001.  The  revolving  credit
agreements  provide for borrowing of U.S.  dollars and  Eurocurrency  at various
rates and support  Corning's  commercial paper program.  The facility includes a
covenant  requiring  Corning  to  maintain a total  debt to  capital  ratio,  as
defined, not greater than 60%. At December 31, 2001, this ratio was 47%.

13.  Employee Retirement Plans

Corning  has  defined  benefit  pension  plans  covering  certain  domestic  and
international  employees.  Corning's  funding policy has been to contribute,  as
necessary, an amount determined jointly by Corning and its consulting actuaries,
which provides for the current cost and  amortization  of prior service cost. In
2000,  Corning  amended its U.S.  pension plan to include a cash balance pension
feature.  All salaried and non-union hourly employees hired before July 1, 2000,
were given the choice of staying in the existing  plan or  participating  in the
cash balance plan beginning January 1, 2001. Salaried employees hired after July
1, 2000,  automatically  became participants in the new cash balance plan. Under
the cash balance plan,  employee accounts are credited monthly with a percentage
of eligible pay based on age and years of service.  Benefits  remain 100% vested
after five years of service.

Corning and certain of its  domestic  subsidiaries  also offer  defined  benefit
postretirement  plans that provide health care and life  insurance  benefits for
retirees and eligible dependents. Certain employees may become eligible for such
postretirement  benefits  upon  reaching  retirement  age.  Corning's  principal
retiree  medical  plans  require  retiree  contributions  each year equal to the
excess of medical cost increases over general inflation rates.

                                       64

<PAGE>

13.  Employee Retirement Plans (continued)

The  change in  benefit  obligation  and  funded  status of  Corning's  employee
retirement plans was as follows (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  Pension Benefits              Postretirement Benefits
                                                             -------------------------         ------------------------
December 31,                                                      2001            2000           2001             2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                          <C>              <C>              <C>             <C>
Change in Benefit Obligation
Benefit obligation at beginning of year                      $   1,610        $  1,431         $  556          $   592
Benefit obligation of acquired businesses                                           58
Service cost                                                        40              32             15               10
Interest cost                                                      118             117             43               41
Plan participants' contributions                                     4               4              3                2
Amendments                                                          (3)             (8)            (3)              (1)
Settlements                                                                          7
Curtailment loss (gain)                                             14                            (13)
Special termination benefits                                        18                             17
Actuarial losses (gains)                                            85              96             56              (53)
Benefits paid                                                     (144)           (127)           (43)             (35)
                                                             ---------------------------       -------------------------

Benefit obligation at end of year                            $   1,742        $  1,610         $  631          $   556
                                                             ===========================       =========================

Change in Plan Assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year               $   1,872        $  1,718
Fair value of plan assets from acquired businesses                                  16
Actual (loss) return on plan assets                               (155)            226
Employer contributions                                              51              35
Plan participants' contributions                                     4               4
Benefits paid                                                     (144)           (127)
                                                             ---------------------------

Fair value of plan assets at end of year                     $   1,628        $  1,872
                                                             ===========================

(Unfunded) funded status                                     $    (114)       $    262         $ (631)         $  (556)
Unrecognized transition asset                                       (1)             (2)
Unrecognized prior service cost (credit)                            79             126             (3)              (3)
Unrecognized actuarial loss (gain)                                 111            (311)           (15)             (67)
                                                             ---------------------------       -------------------------

Recognized asset (liability)                                 $      75        $     75         $ (649)         $  (626)
                                                             ===========================       -------------------------

Less current portion                                                                               41               38
                                                                                               -------------------------

Accrued postretirement benefit liability                                                       $ (608)         $  (588)
                                                                                               =========================
</TABLE>

Defined benefit pension plan assets are comprised principally of publicly traded
debt and equity  securities.  Corning common stock  represented 0.3% and 1.7% of
plan assets at year-end 2001 and 2000, respectively.  Corning has not funded its
postretirement benefit obligations.

At December 31, 2001, the defined  benefit plans in which the fair value of plan
assets  exceeded the benefit  obligation  had  obligations of $1,522 million and
assets  of $1,535  million.  The  defined  benefit  plans in which  the  benefit
obligation  exceeded  the fair  value of plan  assets  had  obligations  of $220
million and assets of $93 million.

At December 31, 2000,  the defined  benefit plan in which the fair value of plan
assets  exceeded the benefit  obligation  had  obligations of $1,467 million and
assets  of $1,859  million.  The  defined  benefit  plans in which  the  benefit
obligation  exceeded  the fair  value of plan  assets  had  obligations  of $143
million and assets of $13 million.

                                       65

<PAGE>

13.  Employee Retirement Plans (concluded)

The weighted-average assumptions for Corning's employee retirement plans were as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   Pension Benefits                 Postretirement Benefits
                                              ---------------------------        ---------------------------
Years ended December 31,                      2001       2000       1999         2001       2000       1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                           <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
Discount rate                                 7.25%      7.75%      7.75%        7.25%      7.75%      7.75%
Expected return on plan assets                9.0%       9.0%       9.0%
Rate of compensation increase                 4.5%       4.5%       4.5%
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Corning's  consolidated  postretirement  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by
application of the terms of health care and life insurance plans,  together with
relevant actuarial assumptions and health care cost trend rates. The health care
cost  trend  rate for  Corning's  principal  plan is assumed to be 6.7% in 2002,
decreasing gradually to 5.0% in 2008 and thereafter.

Assumed  health  care  trend  rates  have a  significant  effect on the  amounts
reported  for the  health  care  plans.  A  one-percentage-point  change in 2001
assumed health care trend rates would have the following effects:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              One-Percentage-Point
                                                           Increase          Decrease
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                          <C>              <C>
Effect on total of service and interest cost components      $ 4.9            $ (4.3)

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation                   41.6             (36.1)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


The components of net periodic  benefit cost for Corning's  employee  retirement
plans were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          Pension Benefits                     Postretirement Benefits
                                                  ---------------------------------      ---------------------------------
(In millions)  Years ended December 31,             2001          2000        1999          2001         2000         1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                               <C>          <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>
Service cost                                      $   40       $    32     $    27       $    15       $   10       $   12
Interest cost                                        118           117          96            43           41           40
Expected return on plan assets                      (161)         (148)       (133)
Amortization of transition asset                      (1)           (1)         (1)
Amortization of net loss (gain)                       (6)           (1)         14                         (2)
Amortization of prior service cost (credit)           14            16           2            (1)          (1)          (1)
                                                  ---------------------------------      ----------------------------------

Net periodic benefit cost                              4            15           5            57           48           51

Recognition of curtailment and settlement             44 (1)        11           5           (13) (1)
Recognition of special termination benefits           18 (1)                                  17  (1)
                                                  ---------------------------------      ----------------------------------

Total cost                                        $   66       $    26     $    10       $    61       $   48       $   51
                                                  =================================      ==================================
</TABLE>

(1)  Included in restructuring charges. See Note 6.

Measurement of  postretirement  benefit expense is based on assumptions  used to
value the  postretirement  benefit  obligation  at the beginning of the year. In
addition  to  defined   benefit   retirement   plans,   Corning  offers  defined
contribution plans covering employees meeting certain eligibility  requirements.
Total consolidated defined contribution expense was $56 million, $81 million and
$50 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

                                       66

<PAGE>

14.  Convertible Preferred Stock

Corning has 10 million  authorized  shares of Series  Preferred Stock, par value
$100 per share.  Of the  authorized  shares,  Corning has designated 2.4 million
shares as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for which no shares have
been issued.

At December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, 72,400, 86,800 and 134,700 shares of Series
B Convertible  Preferred  Stock were  outstanding,  respectively.  Each Series B
share is  convertible  into 14.37 shares of Corning  common stock and has voting
rights equivalent to 14 common shares. The Series B shares were sold exclusively
to the trustee of  Corning's  existing  employee  investment  plans,  based upon
directions from plan participants.  Participants may cause Corning to redeem the
shares at 100% of par upon reaching age 55 or later, retirement,  termination of
employment  or in certain cases of financial  hardship.  The Series B shares are
redeemable by Corning at $100 per share.

15.  Common Shareholders' Equity

On August 16, 2001,  Corning completed an equity offering of 14.2 million shares
of common  stock  generating  net  proceeds  to  Corning of  approximately  $225
million.

Dividends paid to common shareholders in 2001 totaled $112 million compared with
$210  million  in 2000  and  $176  million  in 1999.  On July 9,  2001,  Corning
announced the discontinuation of the payment of dividends on its common stock.

On January 31, 2000, Corning completed an equity offering of approximately 44.85
million   shares  of  common  stock   generating  net  proceeds  to  Corning  of
approximately  $2.2 billion.  On November 6, 2000,  Corning  completed an equity
offering of  approximately  34.5 million  shares of common stock  generating net
proceeds to Corning of approximately $2.4 billion.

Corning had  established  the Corning  Stock  Ownership  Trust  (CSOT) to fund a
portion of future employee  purchases and company  contributions of common stock
to Corning's  Investment and Employee Stock Purchase Plans (the Plans).  Corning
sold 12 million  treasury shares to the CSOT. The shares were fully  distributed
to the Plans and the trust terminated in 2001. Prior to termination, shares held
by the CSOT were not  considered  outstanding  for  earnings  per  common  share
calculations until released to the Plans.

Corning  repurchased  approximately  4.2 million  shares of its common  stock in
1999. No shares of common stock were repurchased in 2001 and 2000.

In June 1996, the Board of Directors approved the renewal of the Preferred Share
Purchase Right Plan which entitles  shareholders  to purchase 0.01 of a share of
Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock upon the  occurrence of certain
events.  In addition,  the rights  entitle  shareholders  to purchase  shares of
common  stock at a 50%  discount in the event a person or group  acquires 20% or
more of Corning's  outstanding common stock. The preferred share purchase rights
became effective July 15, 1996 and expire July 15, 2006.

                                       67

<PAGE>

15.  Common Shareholders' Equity (concluded)

Components of other  comprehensive  income (loss)  accumulated in  shareholders'
equity are reported net of income taxes, as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Foreign                       Net unrealized      Accumulated
                                                           currency      Net unrealized   gains (losses)         other
                                                          translation    (losses) gains    on cash flow      comprehensive
                                                          adjustment     on investments       hedges         income (loss)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                        <C>              <C>              <C>               <C>
December 31, 1998                                          $    4           $   (1)                            $     3
Foreign currency translation adjustment                       (54)                                                 (54)
Unrealized gain on investments (net of tax of $15 million)                      23                                  23
Realized gains on securities (net of tax of $2 million)                         (3)                                 (3)
                                                           ---------------------------------------------------------------------

December 31, 1999                                             (50)              19                                 (31)
Foreign currency translation adjustment                      (118)                                                (118)
Unrealized gain on investments (net of tax of $21 million)                      33                                  33
Realized gains on securities (net of tax of $7 million)                        (11)                                (11)
                                                           ---------------------------------------------------------------------

December 31, 2000                                            (168)              41                                (127)
Foreign currency translation adjustment                       (31)                                                 (31)
Unrealized loss on investments (net of tax of $17 million)                     (27)                                (27)
Realized gains on securities (net of tax of $12 million)                       (18)                                (18)
Cumulative effect of adoption of SFAS No. 133                                                $    3                  3
Unrealized derivative gain on cash flow hedges
  (net of tax of $7 million)                                                                     11                 11
Reclassification adjustments on cash flow hedges
  (net of tax of $2 million)                                                                     (4)                (4)
                                                           ---------------------------------------------------------------------

December 31, 2001                                          $ (199)          $   (4)          $   10            $  (193)
                                                           =====================================================================
</TABLE>


16.  Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Hedging Activities

Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees

Minimum rental commitments under leases outstanding at December 31, 2001 are (in
millions):

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 2002        2003        2004        2005        2006        2007 and thereafter
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  $67         $61         $57         $51         $46              $285
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Total rental expense amounted to approximately $90 million for 2001, $76 million
for 2000 and $59 million for 1999.

At December 31,  2001,  future  minimum  lease  payments to be received  under a
noncancelable   sublease  to  Quest  Diagnostics  totaled  $47  million.   Quest
Diagnostics,  in turn, has a noncancelable  sublease covering  approximately $31
million of the minimum  lease  payments  due to  Corning.  Corning has agreed to
indemnify Quest Diagnostics should Quest  Diagnostics'  sublessee default on the
minimum lease payments.  Additionally,  Corning  continues to guarantee  certain
obligations of Quest Diagnostics totaling $14 million.

                                       68

<PAGE>

16.  Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Hedging Activities (continued)

Corning and PPG  Industries,  Inc. each own 50% of the capital stock of PCC. PCC
and several  other  defendants  have been named in numerous  lawsuits  involving
claims alleging  personal injury from exposure to asbestos.  It is probable that
there  will  be  intensive  negotiations  throughout  the  first  half  of  2002
concerning  terms of PCC's  plan of  reorganization,  including  whether  or not
Corning and its insurers may  participate by making a  contribution  in exchange
for a release.  Management  cannot estimate the probability that Corning will be
able to secure such a release upon terms and conditions  satisfactory to Corning
and its insurers.  The range of cost for these options (net of insurance) cannot
be estimated at this time. Although asbestos litigation is inherently difficult,
and the outcome of litigation is uncertain,  management  believes  these matters
will be resolved  without a materially  adverse  impact on  Corning's  financial
position. For a broader discussion see Note 9.

The ability of certain  subsidiaries and associated  companies to transfer funds
is limited by  provisions  of certain  loan  agreements  and foreign  government
regulations.  At  December  31,  2001,  the  amount  of equity  subject  to such
restrictions  for  consolidated  subsidiaries  totaled $84  million.  While this
amount is legally  restricted,  it does not result in  operational  difficulties
since  Corning  has  generally  permitted  subsidiaries  to retain a majority of
equity to support their growth  programs.  At December 31, 2001, loans of equity
affiliates  guaranteed by Corning totaled $16 million. In addition,  Corning and
certain  of its  subsidiaries  have  provided  other  financial  guarantees  and
contingent  liabilities  in the form of purchase  price  adjustments  related to
attainment of milestones,  stand-by letters of credit and performance  bonds. As
described  in Note 9,  Corning  has agreed to provide a credit  facility  to Dow
Corning up to $150 million.  The amounts of these obligations are represented in
the following table (in millions):

     Performance bonds and guarantees                        $  241
     Contingent purchase price for acquisitions                 238
     Dow Corning credit facility                                150
     Stand-by letters of credit                                  33
     Loan guarantees                                             16
                                                             ------
     Total                                                   $  678
                                                             ======

The funding of the Dow Corning credit facility is subject to events connected to
the Bankruptcy Plan as described in Note 9. Management  believes the significant
majority of the other guarantees and contingent  liabilities will expire without
being funded.

Hedging Activities

Corning operates and conducts business in many foreign  countries.  As a result,
there is exposure to  potentially  adverse  movement  in foreign  currency  rate
changes.  Corning enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with
durations  generally 12 months or less to reduce its  exposure to exchange  rate
risk on foreign source income and purchases. The objective of these contracts is
to  neutralize  the  impact of  foreign  currency  exchange  rate  movements  on
Corning's operating results.

Corning engages in foreign currency  hedging  activities to reduce the risk that
changes in exchange  rates will  adversely  affect the  eventual  net cash flows
resulting  from the sale of products to foreign  customers  and  purchases  from
foreign  suppliers.  The hedge contracts  reduce the exposure to fluctuations in
exchange rate  movements  because the gains and losses  associated  with foreign
currency balances and transactions are generally offset with gains and losses of
the hedge  contracts.  Because the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates
on hedge  contracts  offsets the related  impact on the  underlying  items being
hedged, these financial instruments help alleviate the risk that might otherwise
result from currency exchange rate fluctuations.

The following table (in millions) summarizes the notional amounts and respective
fair values of the derivative financial  instruments at December 31, 2001. These
contracts are held by Corning and its subsidiaries and mature at varying dates:

                                            Notional Amount       Fair Value
                                            ---------------       ----------
   Foreign exchange forward contracts          $ 379                 $ 20
   Foreign exchange option contracts           $ 140                 $  4

The  forward  and  option  contracts  used by Corning in  managing  its  foreign
currency  exposures contain an element of risk in that the counterparties may be
unable to meet the terms of the agreements. However, Corning minimizes this risk
by limiting the counterparties to a diverse group of highly-rated major domestic
and international  financial institutions with which Corning has other financial
relationships.   Corning  is  exposed  to  potential  losses  in  the  event  of
non-performance  by these  counterparties;  however,  Corning does not expect to
record any losses as a result of counterparty default.  Corning does not require
and is not required to place collateral for these financial instruments.

                                       69

<PAGE>

16.  Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Hedging Activities (concluded)

In  December  1998,  one  of  Corning's   subsidiaries  entered  into  financing
agreements  which  provide  for the sale of certain  future yen based  revenues,
beginning  February 1999 and expiring in December  2001.  These  contracts  were
terminated in July 2000.  These contracts  required the  counterparty to advance
U.S.  dollars in amounts up to $10  million  each month and Corning to repay the
notes only to the extent of future yen  denominated  revenues.  The  obligations
under these contracts were not cancelable by either party.  Borrowings under the
agreements bore interest at a premium to the Eurodollar rate.  Transaction gains
or  losses  related  to these  contracts  were  deferred  and  recognized  as an
adjustment to the revenue securing the note repayments. Borrowings were recorded
on the balance sheet only to the extent they were  outstanding.  The  cumulative
borrowings  between  January  2000 and July  2000 were $60  million.  Cumulative
repayments approximated 6.6 billion yen for the same period.

17.  (Loss) Earnings Per Common Share

Basic  earnings  per share is computed by dividing  income  available  to common
shareholders  (the  numerator) by the  weighted-average  number of common shares
outstanding (the denominator) for the period. Diluted earnings per share assumes
that any dilutive convertible preferred shares,  subordinated notes, convertible
zero coupon  debentures and convertible  debentures  outstanding were converted,
with related preferred stock dividend requirements and outstanding common shares
adjusted  accordingly.  It also  assumes  that  outstanding  common  shares were
increased  by shares  issuable  upon  exercise of those stock  options for which
market  price  exceeds the  exercise  price,  less shares  which could have been
purchased  by  Corning  with the  related  proceeds.  Diluted  loss per share is
computed  using  the  weighted-average  number  of common  shares  and  excludes
potential common shares outstanding, as their effect is anti-dilutive.

A  reconciliation  of the basic  and  diluted  (loss)  earnings  per share  from
continuing  operations  computations  for 2001, 2000 and 1999 are as follows (in
millions, except per share amounts):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                    For the years ended December 31,
                                    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 2001                             2000                             1999
                                    ------------------------------    -----------------------------    -----------------------------
                                               Weighted-                        Weighted-                        Weighted-
                                                Average   Per Share              Average   Per Share              Average  Per Share
                                     Income     Shares     Amount     Income     Shares     Amount     Income     Shares     Amount
                                     ------     ------     ------     ------     ------     ------     ------     ------     ------

<S>                                 <C>          <C>      <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>        <C>
(Loss) income from continuing
  operations                        $(5,498)                           $ 409                            $ 511
Less:  Preferred stock
  dividends                              (1)                              (1)                              (1)
                                    -----------------------------      ----------------------------     ----------------------------

Basic (Loss) Earnings
  Per Share                          (5,499)     933      $(5.89)        408       858        $0.48       510       765        $0.67
                                                          =======                             =====                            =====

Effect of Dilutive
  Securities
Options                                                                             21                               16
Convertible preferred
   securities of subsidiary                                                                                 2         6
Convertible subordinated notes                                                                              3         6
Convertible preferred stock                                                                                 1         2
                                    -----------------------------      ----------------------------     ----------------------------

Diluted (Loss) Earnings
  Per Share                         $(5,499)     933      $(5.89)      $ 408       879        $0.46     $ 516       795        $0.65
                                    =============================      ============================     ============================
</TABLE>

At December  31, 2001,  potential  convertible  shares of 45 million  related to
preferred stock,  subordinated notes, 2% zero coupon convertible  debentures and
3.5% convertible debentures were not included in the calculation of diluted loss
per share due to the anti-dilutive  effect they would have had on loss per share
if converted.  Also, the 2001  computation of diluted loss per share excluded 68
million options since their effect would have been  anti-dilutive and the option
exercise  price was greater than the average  market price of the common  shares
for the period.

At December  31, 2000,  potential  convertible  shares of 12 million  related to
preferred stock,  subordinated notes and zero coupon convertible debentures were
not  included  in the  calculation  of  diluted  earnings  per  share due to the
anti-dilutive  effect  they would have had on earnings  per share if  converted.
Also,  the 2000  computation  of diluted  earnings per share excluded 24 million
options  since the option  exercise  price was greater  than the average  market
price of the common shares for the period.

                                       70

<PAGE>

17.  (Loss) Earnings Per Common Share (concluded)

During the first  quarter of 1999,  the  Convertible  Monthly  Income  Preferred
Securities  (MIPS) were redeemed and converted into 35 million shares of Corning
common stock.  The MIPS  dividends  paid prior to the date of the conversion are
reflected within the dilutive earnings per share calculation for 1999.

18.  Stock Compensation Plans

At December 31, 2001,  Corning's stock  compensation  programs are in accordance
with the 2000  Employee  Equity  Participation  Program and 2000 Equity Plan for
Non-Employee Directors Program (Programs).  For calendar years beginning January
1, 2001, 3.5% of Corning's common stock outstanding at the beginning of the year
and any  ungranted  shares from prior years will be  available  for grant in the
current year. At December 31, 2001,  49.9 million shares will be available under
the Programs for 2002.  Any  remaining  shares  available  for grant but not yet
granted will be carried over and used in the following year.

Stock Option Plan

Corning stock option plans provide  non-qualified and incentive stock options to
purchase  unissued or treasury  shares at the market price on the grant date and
generally  become  exercisable in  installments  from one to five years from the
grant date. The maximum term of non-qualified  and incentive stock options is 10
years from the grant date.

Changes in the status of outstanding options were as follows:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  Number            Weighted-
                                                 of Shares           Average
                                              (in thousands)     Exercise Price
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Options outstanding January 1, 1999                43,818          $   9.70
Options granted under plans                         7,623          $  21.66
Options exercised                                 (15,234)         $   8.77
Options terminated                                   (918)         $  12.00
                                                ----------------------------

Options outstanding January 1, 2000                35,289          $  12.63
Options granted under plans                        23,549          $  66.27
Options issued in acquisitions                      4,456          $  26.55
Options exercised                                 (17,297)         $  10.62
Options terminated                                   (994)         $  42.78
                                                ----------------------------

Options outstanding January 1, 2001                45,003          $  42.27
Options granted under plans                        29,784          $  21.02
Options exercised                                  (1,258)         $   9.40
Options terminated                                 (1,138)         $  37.53
                                                ----------------------------

Options outstanding December 31, 2001              72,391          $  34.21
                                                ============================

The  number  of  options  exercisable  and  the  corresponding  weighted-average
exercise  price was 20.9 million and $26.33 at December 31, 2001, 12 million and
$11.32 at December  31, 2000 and 14.1  million and $10.36 at December  31, 1999.
The weighted-average fair value of options granted was $13.83 in 2001, $38.46 in
2000 and $8.29 in 1999.

                                       71

<PAGE>

18.  Stock Compensation Plans (continued)

The following table summarizes information about Corning's stock option plans at
December 31, 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            Options Outstanding                                   Options Exercisable
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             Number          Weighted-Average                                Number
                         Outstanding at          Remaining           Weighted-           Exercisable at           Weighted-
      Range of          December 31, 2001    Contractual Life         Average           December 31, 2001          Average
   Exercise Prices       (in thousands)          in Years         Exercise Price         (in thousands)        Exercise Price
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  <S>                        <C>                   <C>                <C>                    <C>                   <C>
  $   0.31 to 8.74            3,958                4.2                $ 7.88                  3,597                $ 8.01
  $   8.84 to 8.98              620                6.4                $ 8.91                    322                $ 8.85
  $   9.38 to 9.84            5,569                6.4                $ 9.41                  5,396                $ 9.41
  $  9.95 to 13.50            8,120                5.4                $10.61                  2,292                $12.21
  $ 13.52 to 15.28            7,491                9.5                $15.19                    448                $13.78
  $ 15.36 to 19.83            7,047                8.4                $17.14                  1,518                $15.94
  $ 19.94 to 31.78            7,910                9.3                $21.47                    261                $24.00
  $ 31.83 to 47.37            7,284                8.6                $40.77                  1,560                $33.06
  $ 48.33 to 55.08            6,383                8.8                $53.65                  1,873                $53.84
  $ 55.48 to 69.56            4,630                8.3                $61.75                  1,384                $61.96
  $ 70.08 to 70.75            5,640                8.9                $70.75                  1,883                $70.75
  $ 71.04 to 72.38            6,987                8.4                $72.11                     13                $71.97
  $72.99 to 111.00              752                8.7                $91.34                    335                $90.57
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             72,391                8.0                $34.21                 20,882                $26.33
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


Incentive Stock Plans

The Corning  Incentive  Stock Plan permits  stock grants,  either  determined by
specific performance goals or issued directly, in most instances, subject to the
possibility of forfeiture and without cash consideration.

In 2001,  2000 and 1999,  grants  of  1,028,000  shares,  1,429,000  shares  and
1,236,000 shares, respectively,  were made under this plan. The weighted-average
price of the  grants  was  $36.89 in 2001,  $61.07  in 2000 and  $21.87 in 1999,
respectively.  A total of 1.1 million shares issued remain subject to forfeiture
at December 31, 2001.

Corning  applies APB No. 25 accounting for its stock-based  compensation  plans.
Compensation  expense is recorded  for awards of shares or share rights over the
period earned.  Compensation expense of $130 million, $31 million and $7 million
was  recorded in 2001,  2000 and 1999,  respectively.  If Corning had elected to
recognize  compensation expense under SFAS No. 123, Corning's net (loss) income,
basic and diluted  (loss)  earnings per share in 2001,  2000 and 1999 would have
been as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions, except per share amounts)                                      2001         2000        1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                     <C>           <C>         <C>
Net (loss) income - as reported                                         $  (5,498)    $    422    $    516
Net (loss) income - pro forma                                           $  (5,868)    $    308    $    487

Basic (losses) earnings per common share - as reported                  $   (5.89)    $   0.49    $   0.67
Basic (losses) earnings per common share - pro forma                    $   (6.29)    $   0.36    $   0.64

Diluted (losses) earnings per common share - as reported                $   (5.89)    $   0.48    $   0.66
Diluted (losses) earnings per common share - pro forma                  $   (6.29)    $   0.35    $   0.62
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

SFAS No. 123 requires that reload options be treated as separate grants from the
related original option grants. Under Corning's reload program, upon exercise of
an  option,  employees  may  tender  unrestricted  shares  owned  at the time of
exercise to pay the exercise  price and related tax  withholding,  and receive a
reload option  covering the same number of shares  tendered for such purposes at
the market  price on the date of exercise.  The reload  options vest in one year
and are only granted in certain circumstances according to the original terms of
the option being  exercised.  The existence of the reload  feature  results in a
greater number of options being measured.

                                       72

<PAGE>

18.  Stock Compensation Plans (concluded)

For purposes of SFAS No. 123 the fair value of each option grant is estimated on
the date of grant using the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model. The following
are  weighted-average  assumptions used for grants under Corning stock plans and
predecessor Oak plans in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For Options                     Corning Option Plan            Corning Option Plan         Corning Incorporated           Oak
Granted During                         2001                           2000                         1999                  1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                    <C>                           <C>                          <C>                     <C>
Expected life in years                    6                             5                            6                      4
Risk free interest rate                 4.8%                          5.8%                         5.7%                   5.7%
Dividend yield                         0.46%                         0.36%                        0.40%
Expected volatility                      75%                           65%                          33%                    49%
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Corning  discontinued payment of dividends on its common stock in July 2001. The
dividend yield assumption applies to grants prior to July 2001.

Worldwide Employee Share Purchase Plan

In addition to the Stock Option Plan and  Incentive  Stock Plans,  Corning has a
Worldwide Employee Share Purchase Plan (WESPP).  Under the WESPP,  substantially
all  employees  can elect to have up to 10% of their  annual  wages  withheld to
purchase  Corning  common stock.  The purchase  price of the stock is 85% of the
lower of the  beginning-of-quarter  or end-of-quarter market price. The CSOT was
utilized  to fund a portion of  employee  purchases  of common  stock  under the
WESPP.



                                       73

<PAGE>

Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
Schedule II - Valuation Accounts and Reserves
(In millions)



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                Balance at                                   Net Deductions         Balance at
Year ended December 31, 2001                Beginning of Period         Additions               and Other          End of Period
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                              <C>                    <C>                      <C>                    <C>
Doubtful accounts and allowances                 $  47                  $  32                    $   19                 $   60
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance          $  45                  $  90                                           $  135
Accumulated amortization of goodwill
  and other intangible assets                    $ 355                  $ 419                    $   23                 $  751
Reserves for accrued costs of
  business restructuring                                                $ 961                    $  685                 $  276
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                Balance at                                   Net Deductions         Balance at
Year ended December 31, 2000                Beginning of Period         Additions               and Other          End of Period
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                              <C>                    <C>                      <C>                    <C>
Doubtful accounts and allowances                 $  20                  $  30                    $  3                   $   47
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance          $  50                                           $  5                   $   45
Accumulated amortization of goodwill
  and other intangible assets                    $ 112                  $ 249                    $  6                   $  355
Reserves for accrued costs of
  business restructuring                         $   8                                           $  8
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                Balance at                                   Net Deductions         Balance at
Year ended December 31, 1999                Beginning of Period         Additions               and Other          End of Period
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                               <C>                    <C>                     <C>                    <C>
Doubtful accounts and allowances                  $ 18                   $ 23                    $ 21                   $   20
LIFO valuation                                    $ 19                                           $ 19
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance           $ 34                   $ 16                                           $   50
Accumulated amortization of goodwill
  and other intangible assets                     $ 90                   $ 31                    $  9                   $  112
Reserves for accrued costs of
  business restructuring                          $ 61                                           $ 53                   $    8
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>




                                       74

<PAGE>

QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AND RELATED MARKET DATA
(unaudited)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(In millions, except per share amounts)                                                Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                 First        Second       Third       Fourth         Total
2001                                                            Quarter       Quarter     Quarter      Quarter        Year
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                            <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
Net sales                                                      $  1,921     $   1,868    $   1,509    $    974      $  6,272
Gross margin                                                        809           536          515          32         1,892
Income (loss) before income taxes,
   minority interest and equity earnings                            211        (4,871)        (320)     (1,131)       (6,111)
Provision (benefit) for income taxes                                108           (77)         (60)       (423)         (452)
Minority interest in (earnings) losses of subsidiaries               (5)           (7)           1          24            13
Equity in earnings of associated companies                           34            46           39          29           148
Net income (loss)                                              $    132     $  (4,755)   $    (220)   $   (655)     $ (5,498)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Basic Earnings (Loss) Per Share                                $   0.14     $   (5.13)   $   (0.24)   $  (0.69)     $  (5.89)
Diluted Earnings (Loss) Per Share                              $   0.14     $   (5.13)   $   (0.24)   $  (0.69)     $  (5.89)
Dividend declared                                              $   0.06     $    0.06                               $   0.12
Price range
   High                                                        $  70.25     $   26.70    $   16.82    $  10.30
   Low                                                         $  19.98     $   13.00    $    8.35    $   7.01
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                            <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
Net sales                                                      $  1,351     $   1,776    $   1,916    $  2,084      $  7,127
Gross margin                                                        563           746          804         883         2,996
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
   taxes, minority interest and equity earnings                     137           254          320         (20)          691
Provision for income taxes                                           55           137          111         104           407
Minority interest in earnings of subsidiaries                        (3)           (7)          (7)         (7)          (24)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                           34            39           52          60           185
Impairment of equity investment                                     (36)                                                 (36)
Income (loss) from continuing operations                       $     77     $     149    $     254    $    (71)     $    409
Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax (1)                                                  13            13
Net income (loss)                                              $     77     $     149    $     254    $    (58)     $    422
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Basic Earnings (Loss) Per Share
   Continuing operations                                       $   0.09     $    0.18    $    0.29    $  (0.08)     $   0.48
   Discontinued operations (1)                                                                            0.02          0.01
   Net income (loss) per share                                 $   0.09     $    0.18    $    0.29    $  (0.06)     $   0.49
Diluted Earnings (Loss) Per Share
   Continuing operations                                       $   0.09     $    0.17    $    0.28    $  (0.08)     $   0.46
   Discontinued operations (1)                                                                            0.02          0.02
   Net income (loss) per share                                 $   0.09     $    0.17    $    0.28    $  (0.06)     $   0.48
Dividend declared                                              $   0.06     $    0.06    $    0.06    $   0.06      $   0.24
Price range
   High                                                        $  73.33     $   89.96    $  113.11    $ 105.94
   Low                                                         $  34.58     $   48.33    $   77.58    $  52.81
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  Discontinued  operations  are  described  in  Note  1 to  the  Consolidated
     Financial Statements.


                                       75

<PAGE>

FIVE YEARS IN REVIEW - HISTORICAL COMPARISON
(unaudited)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(In millions, except per share amounts)                                               Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Years ended December 31,                                     2001           2000          1999              1998            1997
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Results of Operations

<S>                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>               <C>             <C>
Net sales                                               $   6,272      $   7,127      $  4,741          $  3,832        $  3,831
Nonoperating gains                                                             7            30                40
Research, development and engineering expenses                631            540           378               307             263
Amortization of purchased intangibles,
   including goodwill                                         439            245            28                22              22
Acquisition-related charges                                                  463
Impairment and restructuring charges                        5,725                            1                85
Equity in earnings of associated companies                    148            185           112                97              79
Impairment of equity investment                                              (36)
(Loss) income from continuing operations                $  (5,498)     $     409      $    511          $    355        $    431
Income from discontinued operations,
  net of income taxes                                                         13             5                66              31
Net (loss) income                                       $  (5,498)     $     422      $    516          $    421        $    462
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Basic (loss) earnings per share
    Continuing operations                               $   (5.89)     $    0.48      $   0.67          $   0.48        $   0.59
    Discontinued operations                                                 0.01                            0.09            0.04
    Net (loss) income per share                         $   (5.89)     $    0.49      $   0.67          $   0.57        $   0.63
Diluted (loss) earnings per share
    Continuing operations                               $   (5.89)     $    0.46      $   0.65          $   0.47        $   0.57
    Discontinued operations                                                 0.02          0.01              0.09            0.04
    Net (loss) income per share                         $   (5.89)     $    0.48      $   0.66          $   0.56        $   0.61
Dividends declared                                      $    0.12      $    0.24      $   0.24          $   0.24        $   0.24
Shares used in computing per share amounts:
    Basic earnings per share                                  933            858           765               733             729
    Diluted earnings per share                                933            879           795               778             781
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Financial Position

Working capital                                         $   2,113      $   2,685      $    430          $    348        $    326
Plant and equipment, net                                    5,097          4,679         3,202             2,784           2,337
Total assets                                               12,793         17,526         6,526             5,464           5,080
Long-term debt                                              4,461          3,966         1,490             1,218           1,277
Common shareholders' equity                                 5,414         10,633         2,463             1,707           1,429
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Supplemental Data (1)

Adjusted net (loss) income excluding
  amortization of goodwill                              $  (5,153)     $     625      $    534          $    434        $    475
Basic (loss) earnings per share
    Continuing operations                               $   (5.52)     $    0.71      $   0.69          $   0.50        $   0.61
    Discontinued operations                                                 0.02          0.01              0.09            0.04
    Net (loss) income per share                         $   (5.52)     $    0.73      $   0.70          $   0.59        $   0.65
Diluted (loss) earnings per share
    Continuing operations                               $   (5.52)     $    0.69      $   0.67          $   0.49        $   0.59
    Discontinued operations                                                 0.02          0.01              0.08            0.04
    Net (loss) income per share                         $   (5.52)     $    0.71      $   0.68          $   0.57        $   0.63
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  Reference should be made to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
     of Operations.

                                       76

<PAGE>

FIVE YEARS IN REVIEW - HISTORICAL COMPARISON (continued)
(unaudited)

(In millions, except number of employees and common shareholders)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                          2001           2000              1999             1998            1997
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                 <C>              <C>              <C>               <C>            <C>
SELECTED DATA
Common dividends declared                           $      112       $    210         $     176         $    167       $     166
Preferred dividends declared                        $        1       $      1         $       1         $      2       $       2
Capital expenditures                                $    1,800       $  1,525         $     757         $    730       $     760
Depreciation and amortization                       $    1,068       $    765         $     408         $    320       $     305
Number of employees (1)                                 31,700         41,800            21,500           19,300          19,500
Number of common shareholders                           26,030         20,140            20,200           22,100          23,600
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Amounts do not include employees of discontinued operations.




                                       77

<PAGE>

INVESTOR INFORMATION

Annual  Meeting The annual  meeting of  shareholders  will be held on  Thursday,
April 25, 2002, in Corning,  NY. A formal notice of the meeting  together with a
proxy  statement will be mailed to  shareholders on or about March 14, 2002. The
proxy  statement  can  also be  accessed  electronically  through  the  investor
relations   category   of  the   Corning   home   page   on  the   Internet   at
http://www.corning.com.  A  summary  report  of the  proceedings  at the  annual
meeting will be available  without charge upon written  request to Ms. Denise A.
Hauselt,   assistant  general  counsel  and  secretary,   Corning  Incorporated,
HQ-E2-10, Corning, NY 14831.

Additional Information
A copy of Corning's  2001 Annual  Report on Form 10-K filed with the  Securities
and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Ms. Denise Hauselt,
assistant  general  counsel  and  secretary,  Corning  Incorporated,   HQ-E2-10,
Corning,  NY  14831.  The  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  can  also be  accessed
electronically  through the investor relations category of the Corning home page
on the Internet at http://www.corning.com.

Investor Information
Investment analysts who need additional information may contact Ms. Katherine M.
Dietz, vice president of investor  relations,  Corning  Incorporated,  HQ-E2-25,
Corning, NY 14831; Telephone (607) 974-9000.

Common Stock
Corning  Incorporated  common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
the Zurich Stock  Exchange.  In addition,  it is traded on the Boston,  Midwest,
Pacific and Philadelphia stock exchanges. Common stock options are traded on the
Chicago  Board  Options  Exchange.  The  abbreviated  ticker  symbol for Corning
Incorporated is "GLW."

Transfer Agent and Registrar
Computershare Investor Services LLC
P.O. Box A-3504
Chicago, IL  60690-3504
Telephone:  (800) 255-0461
www.computershare.com

Change of Address
Report change of address to Computershare at the above address.

Independent Accountants
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1301 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY  10019

                                       78

<PAGE>

The following  exhibits are included only in copies of the 2001 Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with Securities and Exchange Commission.

          Exhibit #24                   Powers of Attorney

Copies of these  exhibits  may be  obtained  by writing to Ms.  Denise  Hauselt,
assistant  general  counsel and secretary,  Corning  Incorporated,  MP-HQ-E2-10,
Corning, New York 14831.

                                       79


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
