<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>l86594ae10-k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>KEYCORP      10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END 12-31-00
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       OR

             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO

                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-850

                                 [KEYCORP LOGO]
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                                      OHIO
                          ---------------------------
                        (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF
                         INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)

                       127 PUBLIC SQUARE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
                    ---------------------------------------
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

                                   34-6542451
                    ---------------------------------------
                                (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
                              IDENTIFICATION NO.)

                                   44114-1306
                                ----------------
                                   (ZIP CODE)

                                 (216) 689-6300
                 ----------------------------------------------
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)

<TABLE>
<S>                                               <C>
         Securities registered pursuant                    Securities registered pursuant
          to Section 12(b) of the Act:                      to Section 12(g) of the Act:
          Common Shares, $1 par value
        Rights to Purchase Common Shares                                None
------------------------------------------------  ------------------------------------------------
             (TITLE OF EACH CLASS)                                (TITLE OF CLASS)

            New York Stock Exchange
------------------------------------------------
  (NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED)
</TABLE>

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                                    Yes [X]
                                     No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $11,027,341,260 at February 28, 2001. (The
aggregate market value has been computed using the closing market price of the
stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on February 28, 2001.)

                               424,128,510 Shares
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (NUMBER OF KEYCORP COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 2001)

Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to
Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Form
10-K. Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for its 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.
<PAGE>   2

                                    KEYCORP

                          2000 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 ITEM                                                                          PAGE
NUMBER                                                                        NUMBER
------                                                                        ------
<C>       <S>                                                                 <C>
          PART I
   1      Business....................................................           1
   2      Properties..................................................           7
   3      Legal Proceedings...........................................           8
   4      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........           8

                                    PART II
   5      Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
            Stockholder Matters.......................................           8
   6      Selected Financial Data.....................................           8
   7      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
            and Results of Operations.................................           8
   7A     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
            Risk......................................................           8
   8      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................           8
   9      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
            and Financial Disclosure..................................           9

                                    PART III
  10      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........           9
  11      Executive Compensation......................................           9
  12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
            Management................................................           9
  13      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............           9

                                    PART IV
  14      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
            8-K.......................................................          10
          Signatures..................................................          14
          Exhibits....................................................          15
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   3

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other
subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its security holders and its
creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of
KeyCorp's banking and other subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the
respective creditors of such banking and other subsidiaries, except to the
extent that KeyCorp's claims in its capacity as creditor of such banking and
other subsidiaries may be recognized.

KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the state of Ohio and registered
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHCA"), is
headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. At December 31, 2000, it was one of the
nation's largest integrated multi-line financial services companies with
consolidated total assets of $87 billion. Its subsidiaries provide investment
management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance and investment
banking products and services to corporate, individual and institutional clients
through four lines of business: Key Retail Banking, Key Specialty Finance, Key
Corporate Capital and Key Capital Partners. As of December 31, 2000, these
services were provided across much of the country through banking subsidiaries
operating 922 full-service branches in 13 states, a 24-hour telephone banking
call center and 2,443 ATMs in 18 states. Additional information pertaining to
the four business lines referred to above is included in the "Line of Business
Results" section beginning on page 36 and in Note 4 ("Line of Business
Results"), beginning on page 70 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's
2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
KeyCorp and its subsidiaries have 22,142 full-time equivalent employees as of
December 31, 2000.

In addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making
loans, KeyCorp's bank and trust company subsidiaries provide specialized
services, including personal and corporate trust services, personal financial
services, customer access to mutual funds, cash management services, investment
banking and capital markets products, and international banking services.
Through its subsidiary banks, trust company and registered investment adviser
subsidiaries, KeyCorp provides investment management services to individual and
institutional clients, including large corporate and public retirement plans,
foundations and endowments, high net worth individuals and Taft-Hartley plans
(i.e., multiemployer trust funds established for providing pension, vacation or
other benefits to employees). In addition, investment management subsidiaries
serve as investment advisers to proprietary mutual funds offered by other
KeyCorp affiliates.

KeyCorp provides other financial services both inside and outside of its primary
banking markets through its nonbank subsidiaries. These services include
accident and health insurance on loans made by subsidiary banks, venture
capital, community development financing, securities underwriting and brokerage,
automobile financing and other financial services. KeyCorp is an equity
participant in a joint venture with Key Merchant Services, LLC, which provides
merchant services to businesses.

                                        1
<PAGE>   4

The following financial data is included in the Financial Review section of
KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference as indicated below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               DESCRIPTION OF FINANCIAL DATA                  PAGE
               -----------------------------                  ----
<S>                                                           <C>
Selected Financial Data.....................................   34
Average Balance Sheets, Net Interest Income and
  Yields/Rates..............................................   40
Components of Net Interest Income Changes...................   39
Composition of Loans........................................   49
Maturities and Sensitivity of Certain Loans to Changes in
  Interest Rates............................................   50
Securities Available for Sale...............................   51
Investment Securities.......................................   52
Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses.................   53
Summary of Loan Loss Experience.............................   54
Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans..........   55
Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or
  More......................................................   56
Impaired Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets...............   75
Short-Term Borrowings.......................................   75
</TABLE>

The executive offices of KeyCorp are located at 127 Public Square, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114-1306, and its telephone number is (216) 689-6300.

ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

The information presented in Note 3 ("Acquisitions and Divestitures"), beginning
on page 69 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

COMPETITION

The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive.
KeyCorp and its subsidiaries ("Key") compete with other providers of financial
services, such as other bank holding companies, commercial banks, savings
associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies,
mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment
banking firms, broker-dealers and a growing list of other local, regional and
national institutions which offer financial services. Key competes by offering
quality products and innovative services at competitive prices.

In recent years, mergers between financial institutions have led to greater
concentration in the banking industry and placed added competitive pressure on
Key's core banking services. In addition, competition is expected to intensify
as a consequence of the financial modernization laws that were enacted in
November 1999 and permit qualifying financial institutions to expand into other
activities. For example, commercial banks are now permitted to have affiliates
that underwrite and deal in securities, underwrite insurance and make merchant
banking investments under certain conditions. See "Interstate Banking and
Branching" and "Financial Modernization Legislation" on page 7.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The following discussion addresses certain of the material elements of the
regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries, and provides certain specific information regarding Key. The
regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of customers and
depositors, the deposit insurance funds of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not
intended for the protection of security holders.

Set forth below is a brief discussion of selected laws, regulations, and
regulatory agency policies applicable to Key. Such discussion is not intended to
be comprehensive, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text
of such statutes, regulations, and regulatory agency policies. Changes in
applicable laws, regulations, and regulatory agency policies cannot necessarily
be predicted, but may have a material effect on Key's business, financial
condition and results of operation.

                                        2
<PAGE>   5

General

As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to regulation, supervision and
examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
"Federal Reserve Board") under the BHCA. Under the BHCA, bank holding companies
may not, in general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of
more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any
bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, bank
holding companies are generally prohibited under the BHCA from engaging in
commercial or industrial activities. KeyCorp's banking subsidiaries are also
subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by applicable
Federal banking agencies. KeyCorp operates two full-service, FDIC-insured
national bank subsidiaries, KeyBank National Association ("KeyBank") and Key
Bank USA, National Association ("KeyBank USA"), and one national bank subsidiary
whose activities are limited to those of a fiduciary. All of KeyCorp's national
bank subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision
and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC").
Because the deposits in KeyBank and KeyBank USA are insured (up to applicable
limits) by the FDIC, the FDIC also has certain regulatory and supervisory
authority over both banking subsidiaries.

KeyCorp also has other financial services subsidiaries that are subject to
regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, as well as
other applicable state and Federal regulatory agencies and self-regulated
organizations. For example, KeyCorp's brokerage and asset management
subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or the
New York Stock Exchange and state securities regulators; KeyCorp's insurance
subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory authorities
of the various states. Other nonbank subsidiaries of KeyCorp are subject to
other laws and regulations of both the Federal government and the various states
in which they are authorized to do business.

Dividend Restrictions

The principal source of cash flow to KeyCorp, including cash flow to pay
dividends on its common shares and debt service on its indebtedness, is
dividends from its subsidiaries. Various statutory and regulatory provisions
limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by KeyCorp's banking subsidiaries
without regulatory approval. The approval of the OCC is required for the payment
of any dividend by a national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the
board of directors of such bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of:
(i) the bank's net income for the current year plus (ii) the retained net income
(as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any
required transfer to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any preferred
stock. In addition, a national bank can pay dividends only to the extent of its
undivided profits. All of KeyCorp's national bank subsidiaries are subject to
these restrictions. In addition, if, in the opinion of a Federal banking agency,
a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial
condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends), the
agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and
desist from such practice. The OCC and the FDIC have indicated that paying
dividends that would deplete a depository institution's capital base to an
inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDIA"), an insured depository institution
may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become less than
"adequately capitalized." See "Regulatory Capital Standards and Related
Matters--Prompt Corrective Action." The FDIA also prohibits the payment of any
dividend while the institution is in default in the payment of any assessment
due to the FDIC. Also, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC have
issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions
and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their
current operating earnings.

Holding Company Structure

Transactions Involving Banking Subsidiaries. KeyCorp's national bank
subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries) are subject to Federal Reserve Act
provisions which impose qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon
certain transactions with or involving KeyCorp (and its nonbank subsidiaries
which are not subsidiaries of KeyCorp's national banks). Transactions covered by
these provisions, which include loans and other extensions of credit as well as
purchases and sales of assets, must be on arm's length terms, cannot exceed
certain amounts
                                        3
<PAGE>   6

which are determined with reference to the bank's regulatory capital, and if a
loan or other extension of credit, must be secured by collateral in an amount
and quality expressly prescribed by statute. For example, the aggregate of all
such outstanding covered transactions by KeyBank and KeyBank USA, including
their subsidiaries, with or involving KeyCorp and its nonbank subsidiaries which
are not subsidiaries of KeyBank and KeyBank USA was limited at December 31,
2000, to approximately $1.8 billion. As a result, these provisions materially
restrict the ability of KeyCorp's national bank subsidiaries and their
subsidiaries to fund KeyCorp and its nonbank subsidiaries which are not
subsidiaries of KeyCorp's national banks.

Source of Strength Doctrine. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding
company is expected to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to
each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit
resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required by
the Federal Reserve Board at times when KeyCorp may not have the resources to
provide it, or, for other reasons, would not otherwise be inclined to provide
it. Certain loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate
in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness of, the
subsidiary bank. In addition, the Crime Control Act of 1990 provides that in the
event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding
company to a Federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a
subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.

Depositor Preference. The FDIA provides that, in the event of the "liquidation
or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the claims of
depositors of such institution (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of
insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC
as a receiver would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims
against such an institution, including Federal funds and letters of credit. If
an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors along
with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including
a parent holding company, in order of priority of payment.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions. Under the FDIA, an insured
depository institution which is under common control with another insured
depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably
anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of such
commonly controlled institution, or any assistance provided by the FDIC to such
commonly controlled institution which is in danger of default. The term
"default" is defined generally to mean the appointment of a conservator or
receiver and the term "in danger of default" is defined generally as the
existence of certain conditions indicating that a "default" is likely to occur
in the absence of regulatory assistance.

Uniform Retail Credit Policy. In February of 1999 and June of 2000, the Federal
banking agencies published revised uniform supervisory guidance with respect to
classification and charge-off of delinquent retail loans and lines of credit.
Key's implementation of this revised guidance, which was required by December
31, 2000, resulted in the acceleration of consumer loan charge-offs of $57
million in the first quarter of 2000 that otherwise might have occurred at later
dates and $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2000.

Subprime Lending. In January of 2001 the Federal banking agencies published
expanded guidance to examiners in connection with their examination of subprime
lending programs. For these purposes, a subprime lending program is one that
targets borrowers with weakened credit histories (as may be evidenced, for
example, by payment delinquencies, chargeoffs, judgments, or bankruptcies) or
having questionable repayment capacity (as may be evidenced, for example, by low
credit bureau scores or high debt-burden ratios). The guidance addresses
supervisory expectations with respect to risk management, the allowance for loan
and lease losses, regulatory capital, examination review and analysis (both at
the portfolio and transaction level), classification guidelines for both
individual loans and portfolios, cure program documentation, and predatory or
abusive lending practices. While this guidance principally applies to
institutions with subprime lending programs with an aggregate credit exposure of
at least 25% of Tier 1 capital, Federal banking examiners may apply it to other
subprime portfolios such as those that are experiencing rapid growth or adverse
performance trends, that are administered by inexperienced management, or which
possess inadequate or weak controls. Management is currently in the process of
evaluating the impact of this guidance upon Key.

                                        4
<PAGE>   7

Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters

Regulatory Capital. Applicable law and regulation define and prescribe minimum
levels of regulatory capital for bank holding companies and their banking
subsidiaries. Adequacy of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the
Federal banking agencies in the examination and supervision process, and in the
evaluation of applications in connection with specific transactions and
activities, including acquisitions, expansion of existing activities, and
commencement of new activities.

Bank holding companies are subject to risk-based capital guidelines adopted by
the Federal Reserve Board. These guidelines establish minimum ratios of
qualifying capital to risk-weighted assets. Qualifying capital includes Tier 1
capital and Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning
varying risk-weights to broad categories of assets and off-balance-sheet
exposures, based primarily on counterparty credit risk. The required minimum
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by
risk-weighted assets, is currently 4%. The required minimum total risk-based
capital ratio is currently 8%. It is calculated by dividing the sum of Tier 1
capital and Tier 2 capital not in excess of Tier 1 capital, after deductions for
investments in certain subsidiaries and associated companies and for reciprocal
holdings of capital instruments, by risk-weighted assets.

Tier 1 capital includes common equity, qualifying perpetual preferred equity,
and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less
certain intangible assets (including goodwill) and certain other assets. Tier 2
capital includes qualifying hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt,
mandatory convertible debt securities, perpetual preferred equity not includable
in Tier 1 capital, and limited amounts of term subordinated debt, medium-term
preferred equity, certain unrealized holding gains on certain equity securities,
and the allowance for loan and lease losses.

Bank holding companies, such as KeyCorp, whose trading activities exceed
specified levels are required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk
includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and
commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as
changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange
rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors (such as
idiosyncratic variation, event risk, and default risk). At December 31, 2000,
Key's Tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted assets ratios were 7.72% and
11.48%, respectively, which include all required adjustments for market risk.

In addition to the risk-based standard, bank holding companies are subject to
the Federal Reserve Board's leverage ratio guidelines. These guidelines
establish minimum ratios of Tier 1 capital to total assets. The minimum leverage
ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by average total consolidated
assets, is 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest
supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board's risk-based
capital measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies must maintain
a minimum leverage ratio of at least 4%. Neither KeyCorp nor any of its banking
subsidiaries has been advised by its primary Federal banking regulator of any
specific leverage ratio applicable to it. At December 31, 2000, Key's Tier 1
capital leverage ratio was 7.71%.

KeyCorp's national bank subsidiaries are also subject to risk-based and leverage
capital requirements adopted by the OCC which are substantially similar to those
imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on bank holding companies. At December 31,
2000, each of these banking subsidiaries had regulatory capital in excess of all
minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements.

Besides establishing regulatory minimum ratios of capital to assets for all bank
holding companies and their banking subsidiaries, the risk-based and leverage
capital guidelines also identify various organization-specific factors and risks
which are not taken into account in the computation of the capital ratios yet
affect the overall supervisory evaluation of a banking organization's regulatory
capital adequacy and can result in the imposition of higher minimum regulatory
capital ratio requirements upon the particular organization. Neither the Federal
Reserve Board nor the OCC has advised KeyCorp or any of its national bank
subsidiaries of any specific minimum risk-based or leverage capital ratio
applicable to KeyCorp or such national bank subsidiary.

Proposals published in 2000, and January and February of 2001, to amend the
regulatory capital treatment of recourse obligations, direct credit substitutes,
asset securitizations, claims on securities firms, treatment of residual
interests in asset securitizations and other transfers of financial assets, and
certain equity and debt
                                        5
<PAGE>   8

investments in nonfinancial companies have not been acted upon through February
of 2001. Until final regulatory guidance is published, the financial impact upon
Key's regulatory capital cannot be determined.

As noted on page 4 in "Subprime Lending", the subprime lending examination
guidance published in January of 2001 addresses, among other matters, Federal
banking agency supervisory expectations with respect to regulatory capital of
institutions with subprime lending portfolios. For an institution having
subprime lending portfolio exposure aggregating 25% or more of the institution's
Tier 1 capital, the guidance indicates examiners will likely expect, as a
minimum, that the institution would hold capital against such portfolio in an
amount that is 1.5 to 3.0 times greater than what is appropriate for
non-subprime assets of a similar type. (Federal banking examiners may also apply
this additional capital requirement to other subprime portfolios such as those
that are experiencing rapid growth or adverse performance trends, that are
administered by inexperienced management, or which possess inadequate or weak
controls.) As noted in the section entitled "Subprime Lending," management is
currently in the process of evaluating the impact of this guidance upon Key.

Prompt Corrective Action. The "prompt corrective action" provisions of the FDIA
added by the FDIC Improvement Act ("FDICIA") create a statutory framework that
applies a system of both discretionary and mandatory supervisory actions indexed
to the capital level of FDIC-insured depository institutions. These provisions
impose progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management, and
capital distributions of the institution as its regulatory capital decreases, or
in some cases, based on supervisory information other than the institution's
capital level. This framework and the authority it confers on the Federal
banking agencies supplements other existing authority vested in such agencies to
initiate supervisory actions to address capital deficiencies. Moreover, other
provisions of law and regulation employ regulatory capital level designations
the same as or similar to those established by the prompt corrective action
provisions both in imposing certain restrictions and limitations and in
conferring certain economic and other benefits upon institutions. These include
restrictions on brokered deposits, FDIC deposit insurance limits on pass-through
deposits, limits on exposure to interbank liabilities, risk-based FDIC deposit
insurance premium assessments, and expedited action upon regulatory
applications.

FDIC-insured depository institutions are grouped into one of five prompt
corrective action capital categories -- well capitalized, adequately
capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically
undercapitalized -- using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and Tier 1
leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. An institution is
considered well capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at
least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a Tier 1
leverage capital ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to any written
agreement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital
level for any capital measure. An adequately capitalized institution must have a
total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
of at least 4% and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4% (3% if the
institution has achieved the highest composite rating in its most recent
examination) and is not well capitalized. At December 31, 2000, each KeyCorp
insured depository institution subsidiary met the requirements for the "well
capitalized" capital category. An institution's prompt corrective action capital
category, however, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall
financial condition or prospects of KeyCorp or its banking subsidiaries, and
should be considered in conjunction with other available information regarding
Key's financial condition and results of operations.

FDIC DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND FINANCING CORPORATION BOND ASSESSMENTS

Because substantially all of the deposits of KeyCorp's depository institution
subsidiaries are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC, these subsidiaries
are subject to deposit insurance premium assessments by the FDIC to maintain the
Bank Insurance Fund (the "BIF") and the Savings Association Insurance Fund (the
"SAIF") of the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-related deposit insurance
assessment system under which premiums, ranging in 1999 from zero to $.27 for
each $100 of domestic deposits, are imposed based upon the depository
institution's capitalization and Federal supervisory evaluation. Each of
KeyCorp's depository institution subsidiaries in 2000 qualified for a deposit
insurance assessment rate of zero. The FDIC is authorized to increase deposit
insurance premium assessments in certain circumstances. Any such increase would
have an adverse effect on Key's earnings.

                                        6
<PAGE>   9

Beginning in 1997, all BIF-member institutions were required to join with
SAIF-member institutions in servicing the approximately $793 million of annual
interest on 30-year non-callable bonds issued by the Financing Corporation
("FICO") in the late 1980s to fund losses incurred by the former Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation. FICO bond assessments are separate from and in
addition to deposit insurance premium assessments and, unlike deposit insurance
premium assessments, do not vary with the depository institution's
capitalization and Federal supervisory evaluation. Federal law required the FICO
assessment rate on BIF assessable deposits to be one-fifth of that imposed on
SAIF assessable deposits through 1999. For 1999, Key paid approximately $6
million in FICO assessments. Starting in 2000, BIF and SAIF FICO assessment
rates equalized. Key's FICO assessment expense for 2000 increased to
approximately $9 million.

INTERSTATE BANKING AND BRANCHING

On September 29, 1994, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching
Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Act") was enacted into Federal law. The
Interstate Act generally authorizes bank holding companies to acquire banks
located in any state, and also generally permits FDIC-insured banks located in
different states to merge, allowing the resulting institution to operate
interstate branches. In addition, the Interstate Act allows an FDIC-insured bank
to establish (or acquire) and operate a branch in a state in which such bank
does not maintain a branch if that state expressly permits such transactions.
Using the authority conferred by the Interstate Act, the number of FDIC-insured
depository institutions operated by KeyCorp has been reduced to two -- KeyBank
and KeyBank USA.

FINANCIAL MODERNIZATION LEGISLATION

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the "GLBA"), enacted in November of 1999 authorizes
new activities for qualifying financial institutions. The GLBA repeals
significant provisions of the Glass Steagall Act to permit commercial banks,
among other things, to have affiliates that underwrite and deal in securities
and make merchant banking investments provided certain conditions are met. The
GLBA modifies the BHCA to permit bank holding companies that meet certain
specified standards (known as "financial holding companies") to engage in a
broader range of financial activities than previously permitted under the BHCA,
and allows subsidiaries of commercial banks that meet certain specified
standards (known as "financial subsidiaries") to engage in a wide range of
financial activities that are prohibited to such banks themselves under certain
circumstances. In February of 2000 KeyCorp filed with the Federal Reserve Board
its declaration of election to become a financial holding company. This election
became effective in March of 2000. Under the authority conferred by the GLBA,
Key has been able to expand the nature and scope of its equity investments in
nonfinancial companies, operate its McDonald Investments Inc. subsidiary with
fewer operating restrictions, and acquire financial subsidiaries to engage in
insurance agency activities without geographic restriction.

GLBA also established new requirements for financial institutions to provide new
privacy protections to consumers. In June of 2000 the Federal banking agencies
jointly adopted a final regulation providing for the implementation of these
protections. It requires a financial institution to provide notice to customers
about its privacy policies and practices, describes under what conditions a
financial institution may disclose nonpublic personal information about
consumers to non-affiliated third parties, and provides an "opt-out" method for
consumers to prevent the financial institution from disclosing that information
to non-affiliated third parties. Financial institutions must be in compliance
with the final regulation by July 1, 2001.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The headquarters of KeyCorp, KeyBank and KeyBank USA are located in Key Tower at
127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306. At December 31, 2000, Key leased
approximately 695,000 square feet of the complex, encompassing the first
twenty-three floors, the 28th floor and the 54th through 56th floors of the 57-
story Key Tower. As of the same date, the banking subsidiaries of KeyCorp owned
507 of their branch banking offices and leased 415 offices. The lease terms for
applicable branch banking offices are not individually material, with terms
ranging from month-to-month to 99-years from inception. Additional information
pertaining to Key's properties is presented in Note 1 ("Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies"), beginning on page 65 of the

                                        7
<PAGE>   10

Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information presented in the Legal Proceedings section of Note 17
("Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Other Disclosures"), beginning on page
82, of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders of KeyCorp.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

The dividend restrictions discussion on page 3 of this report and the following
disclosures included in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual
Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              PAGE
                                                              ----
<S>                                                           <C>
Discussion of common shares and shareholder information
  presented in the capital and dividends section............   57
Presentation of quarterly market price and cash dividends
  per common share..........................................   59
Discussion of dividend restrictions presented in Note 17
  ("Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Other
  Disclosures").............................................   83
</TABLE>

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The Selected Financial Data presented on page 34 of the Financial Review section
of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

The information included under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" presented on pages 32 through 59
of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information included under the caption "Market risk management" presented on
pages 39 through 44 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Selected Quarterly Financial Data and the financial statements and the notes
thereto, presented on page 59 and on pages 61 through 88, respectively, of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.

                                        8
<PAGE>   11

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 17, 2001, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp
expects to file its final proxy statement on or before March 26, 2001. The
information set forth in the sections captioned, "AUDIT AND RISK REVIEW
COMMITTEE INDEPENDENCE" and "AUDIT AND RISK REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT" and Exhibit
A captioned "KEYCORP AUDIT AND RISK REVIEW COMMITTEE CHARTER" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 17, 2001, are not incorporated by reference in this Report on
Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES," "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS" and "EMPLOYMENT AND CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 17, 2001, and is incorporated herein by reference. The
information set forth in the sections captioned "COMPENSATION AND ORGANIZATION
COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and "KEYCORP STOCK PRICE
PERFORMANCE" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 17, 2001, is not incorporated by
reference in this Report on Form 10-K. KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy
statement on or before March 26, 2001.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"SHARE OWNERSHIP AND PHANTOM STOCK UNITS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 17,
2001, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final
proxy statement on or before March 26, 2001.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 17, 2001,
and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy
statement on or before March 26, 2001.

                                        9
<PAGE>   12

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following financial statements of KeyCorp and its subsidiaries, and the
auditor's report thereon, are incorporated herein by reference to the pages
indicated in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 2000 Annual Report to
Shareholders:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              PAGE
                                                              ----
<S>                                                           <C>
Consolidated Financial Statements:
  Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.........    60
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999...    61
Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended
  December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998..........................    62
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
  for the Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998......    63
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the Years Ended
  December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998..........................    64
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................    65
</TABLE>

(a)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

All financial statement schedules for KeyCorp and its subsidiaries have been
included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or
they are either inapplicable or not required.

(a)(3) EXHIBITS*

<TABLE>
<C>                <S>
      3.1          Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of KeyCorp
                   filed, as Exhibit 3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                   September 30, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

      3.2          Amended and Restated Regulations of KeyCorp, effective May
                   15, 1997, filed on June 19, 1997, as Exhibit 2 to Form
                   8-A/A, and incorporated herein by reference.

      4.1          Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of May 15, 1997, between
                   KeyCorp and KeyBank National Association, as Rights Agent,
                   filed on June 19, 1997, as Exhibit 1 to Form 8-A, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.1          Form of Change of Control Agreement between KeyCorp and
                   Certain Executive Officers of KeyCorp, effective November
                   20, 1997, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.2          First Amendment to Form of Change of Control Agreement
                   between KeyCorp and Certain Executive Officers of KeyCorp,
                   filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                   September 30, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.3          Form of Premium Priced Option Grant between KeyCorp and
                   Robert W. Gillespie dated January 13, 1999, filed as Exhibit
                   10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.4          Form of Premium Priced Option Grant between KeyCorp and
                   Henry L. Meyer III dated January 13, 1999, filed as Exhibit
                   10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.5          Form of Option Grant between KeyCorp and Robert W.
                   Gillespie, dated November 15, 2000.

     10.6          Form of Option Grant between KeyCorp and Henry L. Meyer III,
                   dated November 15, 2000.

     10.7          Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between KeyCorp
                   and Robert W. Gillespie, effective November 21, 1996, filed
                   as Exhibit 10.33 to Form 10-K for the year ended December
                   31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
</TABLE>

                                        10
<PAGE>   13
<TABLE>
<C>                <S>
     10.8          First Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement
                   between KeyCorp and Robert W. Gillespie, dated December 7,
                   1998, filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                   December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.9          Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment
                   Agreement between KeyCorp and Robert W. Gillespie, dated
                   November 23, 1999, filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1999, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.10         Amended Employment Agreement between KeyCorp and Henry L.
                   Meyer III, dated February 1, 2001.

     10.11         Letter Agreement between KeyCorp and Thomas C. Stevens,
                   dated May 10, 1996, as amended April 7, 1997, filed as
                   Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.12         Employment Agreement among KeyCorp, William B. Summers, Jr.,
                   and McDonald Investments Inc., dated October 4, 2000.

     10.13         Employment Agreement among KeyCorp, Robert T. Clutterbuck
                   and McDonald Investments Inc., dated October 4, 2000.

     10.14         KeyCorp Long Term Incentive Plan (January 1, 1998) filed as
                   Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.15         KeyCorp Annual Incentive Plan (December 21, 1999
                   Restatement), filed as Exhibit 10.17 to Form 10-K for the
                   year ended December 31, 1999, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.16         KeyCorp Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Compensation Plan
                   (Amended as of January 17, 2001).

     10.17         Society Corporation 1988 Stock Option Plan, amended as of
                   September 19, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.18         KeyCorp 1988 Stock Option Plan as Amended and Restated as of
                   September 19, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.20 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.19         McDonald & Company Investments, Inc. Stock Option Plan,
                   filed as Exhibit 10.39 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                   December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.20         McDonald & Company Investments, Inc. 1995 Key Employees
                   Stock Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.40 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.21         KeyCorp Directors' Stock Option Plan (November 17, 1994
                   Restatement) filed as Exhibit 10.37 to Form 10-K for the
                   year ended December 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.22         KeyCorp 1997 Stock Option Plan for Directors as amended and
                   restated on April 21, 1999, filed as Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q
                   for the quarter ended June 30, 1999, and incorporated herein
                   by reference.

     10.23         KeyCorp Umbrella Trust for Directors, between KeyCorp and
                   National Bank of Detroit, dated July 1, 1990, filed as
                   Exhibit 10.28 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.24         Amended and Restated Director Deferred Compensation Plan
                   (May 18, 2000 Amendment and Restatement) filed as Exhibit 10
                   to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.25         KeyCorp Directors' Survivor Benefit Plan, effective
                   September 1, 1990, filed as Exhibit 10.25 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.
</TABLE>

                                        11
<PAGE>   14
<TABLE>
<C>                <S>
     10.26         KeyCorp Excess 401(k) Savings Plan (Amended and Restated as
                   of January 1, 1998), filed as Exhibit 10.31 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.27         KeyCorp Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan (Amended and
                   Restated as of January 1, 1998), filed as Exhibit 10.34 to
                   Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.28         First Amendment to KeyCorp Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan,
                   effective July 1, 1999, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q
                   for the quarter ended September 30, 1999, and incorporated
                   herein by reference.

     10.29         KeyCorp Deferred Compensation Plan (Amended and Restated as
                   of January 1, 1998), filed as Exhibit 10.38 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.30         KeyCorp Automatic Deferral Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
                   Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.31         First Amendment to KeyCorp Automatic Deferral Plan.

     10.32         Trust Agreement for certain amounts that may become payable
                   to certain executives and directors of KeyCorp, dated April
                   1, 1997, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
                   ended June 30, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.33         Trust Agreement (Executive Benefits Rabbi Trust), dated
                   November 3, 1988, filed as Exhibit 10.20 to Form 10-K for
                   the year ended December 31, 1995, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

     10.34         KeyCorp Umbrella Trust for Executives, between KeyCorp and
                   National Bank of Detroit, dated July 1, 1990, filed as
                   Exhibit 10.27 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.35         KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Plan, amended, restated and
                   effective August 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.32 to Form
                   10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated
                   herein by reference.

     10.36         First Amendment to KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Plan,
                   effective July 1, 1999, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q
                   for the quarter ended September 30, 1999, and incorporated
                   herein by reference.

     10.37         Second Amendment to KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Plan.

     10.38         KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan, effective
                   January 1, 1981, restated August 16, 1990, amended January
                   1, 1995, and August 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.26 to Form
                   10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated
                   herein by reference.

     10.39         Third Amendment to KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Benefit
                   Plan, effective July 1, 1999, filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Form
                   10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.40         KeyCorp Executive Supplemental Pension Plan, amended,
                   restated and effective August 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit
                   10.29 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.41         First Amendment to KeyCorp Executive Supplemental Pension
                   Plan, effective January 1, 1997, filed as Exhibit 10.27 to
                   Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.42         Third Amendment to KeyCorp Executive Supplemental Pension
                   Plan.
</TABLE>

                                        12
<PAGE>   15
<TABLE>
<C>                <S>
     10.43         KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan for Key
                   Executives, effective July 1, 1990, restated August 16,
                   1990, amended as of January 1, 1995, and August 1, 1996,
                   filed as Exhibit 10.26 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                   December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.44         Third Amendment to KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Benefit
                   Plan for Key Executives, effective July 1, 1999, filed as
                   Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                   30, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.45         KeyCorp Survivor Benefit Plan, effective September 1, 1990,
                   filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                   December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.46         KeyCorp Universal Life Insurance Plan filed as Exhibit 10.15
                   to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.

     10.47         KeyCorp Supplemental Long Term Disability Plan filed as
                   Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.48         Old KeyCorp Supplemental Disability Plan (Specimen Document)
                   filed as Exhibit 10.17 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                   December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

     12            Statement re: Computation of Ratios.

     13            KeyCorp 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders.

     21            Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23            Consent of Independent Auditors.

     24            Powers of Attorney.
</TABLE>

KeyCorp hereby agrees to furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
request, copies of instruments outstanding, including indentures, which define
the rights of long-term debt security holders.

All documents listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.48 constitute management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

* Copies of these Exhibits have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
  Commission. Shareholders may obtain a copy of any exhibit, upon payment of
  reproduction costs, by writing KeyCorp Investor Relations, at 127 Public
  Square (Mail Code OH-01-27-1113), Cleveland, OH 44114-1306.

(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

October 13, 2000 -- The Registrant's disclosure of its intention to issue a
press release on October 17, 2000, that announces its earnings for the
three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2000.

October 18, 2000 -- The Registrant's October 17, 2000, press release announcing
its earnings results for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September
30, 2000.

No other reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 2000.

                                        13
<PAGE>   16

                                   SIGNATURES

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE DATE INDICATED.
                                            KEYCORP

                                            /s/  THOMAS C. STEVENS
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            THOMAS C. STEVENS
                                            Vice Chairman,
                                            Chief Administrative Officer and
                                            Secretary
                                            March 15, 2001

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
         SIGNATURE                       TITLE
         ---------                       -----
<S>                           <C>
*Robert W. Gillespie          Chairman and Director

*Henry L. Meyer III           President (Principal
                              Executive Officer), Chief
                              Executive Officer and
                              Director

*K. Brent Somers              Senior Executive Vice
                              President and Chief
                              Financial Officer (Principal
                              Financial Officer)

*Lee G. Irving                Executive Vice President and
                              Chief Accounting Officer
                              (Principal Accounting
                              Officer)

*William G. Bares             Director

*Albert C. Bersticker         Director
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
         SIGNATURE                       TITLE
         ---------                       -----
<S>                           <C>

  *Edward P. Campbell         Director

  *Thomas A. Commes           Director

  *Kenneth M. Curtis          Director

  *Alexander M. Cutler        Director

  *Henry S. Hemingway         Director

  *Charles R. Hogan           Director

  *Douglas J. McGregor        Director

  *Steven A. Minter           Director

  *Bill R. Sanford            Director

  *Ronald B. Stafford         Director

  *Dennis W. Sullivan         Director

  *Peter G. Ten Eyck, II      Director
</TABLE>

                                            /s/ Thomas C. Stevens
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            * By Thomas C. Stevens,
                                              attorney-in-fact
                                              March 15, 2001

                                        14
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
