<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>body.txt
<DESCRIPTION>BODY, FORM 10-K, DECEMBER 31, 2002
<TEXT>
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K


                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002        Commission file number 1-9700



                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


               Delaware                                 94-3025021
     (State or other jurisdiction        (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 of incorporation or organization)

                   120 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 94108
              (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

   Title of each class                 Name of each exchange on which registered
   -------------------                 -----------------------------------------
Common Stock - $.01 par value           New York Stock Exchange
                                        Pacific Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   No
                                       ---     ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
          ---

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes  X   No
                                       ---     ---
As of June 28,  2002,  the  aggregate  market  value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates  of the  registrant  was  $12,227,271,269.  For  purposes  of this
information,  the  outstanding  shares of Common  Stock owned by  directors  and
executive officers of the registrant,  and certain investment  companies managed
by Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,  Inc. were deemed to be shares of the
voting stock held by affiliates.

The  number  of  shares of Common  Stock  outstanding  as of March 10,  2003 was
1,352,529,053.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Parts I, II and III of this Form 10-K incorporate certain information  contained
in the registrant's  2002 Annual Report to Stockholders by reference to portions
of that document.  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates  certain  information
contained in the registrant's  definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting
of  stockholders  to be  held  May 9,  2003 by  reference  to  portions  of that
document.



<PAGE>


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION


                           Annual Report On Form 10-K

                     For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2002
                     ---------------------------------------


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

Part I

Item 1.  Business ------------------------------------------------------------ 1
Item 2.  Properties --------------------------------------------------------- 14
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings -------------------------------------------------- 14
Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders ---------------- 14
Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant ------------------------------- 14

Part II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters ----------------------------------------------------------- 15
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data -------------------------------------------- 15
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations --------------------------------------------- 15
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk --------- 16
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ------------------------ 16
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure ---------------------------------------------- 16

Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ------------------16
Item 11. Executive Compensation --------------------------------------------- 19
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
         and Related Stockholder Matters ------------------------------------ 19
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions --------------------- 19
Item 14. Controls and Procedures -------------------------------------------- 20

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K ---- 20
          Exhibit Index ----------------------------------------------------- 21
          Signatures -------------------------------------------------------- 26
          Certifications ------------------------------------------------- 27-29
          Index to Financial Statement Schedules --------------------------- F-1


FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS  - This Annual  Report on Form 10-K,  including  the
information  incorporated by reference,  contains  "forward-looking  statements"
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities  Act, and Section 21E of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking  statements are identified by
words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "may"
and other  similar  expressions.  In  addition,  any  statements  that  refer to
expectations,  projections  or  other  characterizations  of  future  events  or
circumstances are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements,
which reflect management's  beliefs,  objectives and expectations as of the date
hereof,  are  necessarily  estimates  based on the best  judgment  of our senior
management.  These statements  relate to, among other things,  the impact of the
sales of its European  operations on the Company's  results of  operations,  the
impact of its expense reduction measures on the Company's results of operations,
the Company's  ability to pursue its strategy of attracting and retaining client
assets as well as achieve its strategic priorities,  and the availability of the
Company's information systems.  Achievement of the expressed beliefs, objectives
and expectations is subject to certain risks and uncertainties  that could cause
actual  results  to  differ  materially  from  those  beliefs,   objectives  and
expectations.  Readers  are  cautioned  not to  place  undue  reliance  on these
forward-looking  statements,  which  speak  only as of the  date of this  Annual
Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of documents  incorporated by reference,  as
of the date of those documents.



<PAGE>


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION


                                     PART I


Item 1. Business

(a) General Development of Business

     The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC, and with its subsidiaries collectively
referred to as the Company) was  incorporated  in 1986 and engages,  through its
subsidiaries,  in securities  brokerage and related financial services.  Charles
Schwab  & Co.,  Inc.  (Schwab)  was  incorporated  in 1971  and is a  securities
broker-dealer  that entered the discount  brokerage business in 1974. U.S. Trust
Corporation  (USTC, and with its subsidiaries  collectively  referred to as U.S.
Trust),  which  merged with CSC in May 2000,  is a wealth  management  firm that
through its subsidiaries  also provides  fiduciary  services and private banking
services.
     Other  subsidiaries  of CSC include Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,
Inc. (CSIM), Schwab Capital Markets L.P. (SCM), CyberTrader, Inc. (CyberTrader),
and The Charles Schwab Trust Company (CSTC). CSIM acts as the investment advisor
for Schwab's  proprietary  mutual funds. The Company refers to certain funds for
which  CSIM is the  investment  advisor as the  SchwabFunds(R).  SCM is a market
maker  in  Nasdaq  and  other  securities  providing  trade  execution  services
primarily to broker-dealers and institutional clients. CyberTrader, a subsidiary
acquired in March 2000, is an electronic  trading  technology and brokerage firm
providing services to highly active,  online traders. CSTC serves as trustee for
employee benefit plans, primarily 401(k) plans.

                              Available Information

     On the Company's Internet Web site,  www.schwab.com,  the Company posts the
following   filings   as  soon  as   reasonably   practicable   after  they  are
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC): the Company's annual report on Form 10-K, the Company's quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, the Company's  current  reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to
those  reports  filed or  furnished  pursuant  to Section  13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on the Company's Web site are
available free of charge.

                                Subsequent Events

     On January 31, 2003,  the Company  sold  Charles  Schwab  Europe  (CSE),  a
subsidiary  located in the United  Kingdom,  to  Barclays  PLC  (Barclays)  in a
transaction  approved by the Board of Directors (Board) on January 30, 2003. The
impact of this sale on the Company's results of operations is not expected to be
material.  See  note  "27 -  Subsequent  Event"  in the  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which
is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     On  March  13,  2003,  the  Company  announced  that  due  to  geopolitical
uncertainties and a further decline in its clients' trading  activity,  it plans
to  implement  a series of  expense  reduction  measures  until such time as the
business   environment   improves   sufficiently.   These  measures   include  a
postponement of some of the Company's planned marketing investments,  reductions
in discretionary  expenses,  further  restrictions on hiring, and adjustments to
certain  employee  benefits.  These  measures are  targeted to reduce  quarterly
expenses by about $40 million, largely beginning in the second quarter of 2003.
     On  March  14,  2003,  the  Board  authorized  the  repurchase  of up to an
additional $250 million of CSC's common stock.  Including $100 million remaining
under an  authorization  granted by the Board on September 20, 2001, CSC now has
authority to repurchase a total of $350 million of its common stock.  The shares
may be  repurchased  through  open market or privately  negotiated  transactions
based on prevailing market conditions.
     On March 19,  2003,  the Company  announced  an  agreement  to sell its 50%
ownership  interest  in  Glasgow,  Scotland-based  Aitken  Campbell to its joint
venture partner,  TD Waterhouse Group, Inc. The sale is expected to close in the
next few months,  subject to regulatory  and other  approvals.  While  financial
terms are undisclosed, the Company expects to recognize a tax benefit associated
with this transaction; the effect of this benefit will be to increase net income
by approximately $10 million in the first quarter of 2003. Except for the effect
of the tax  benefit,  the  impact  of  this  sale on the  Company's  results  of
operations is not expected to be material.


                                      - 1-


(b) Financial Information About Segments

     The  Company  provides  financial  services to  individuals,  institutional
clients,  and  broker-dealers  through  four  segments  -  Individual  Investor,
Institutional Investor, Capital Markets, and U.S. Trust. The Individual Investor
segment includes the Company's domestic and international retail operations. The
Institutional Investor segment provides custodial,  trading and support services
to independent  investment  advisors (IAs),  serves company 401(k) plan sponsors
and third-party  administrators,  and supports  company stock option plans.  The
Capital   Markets  segment   provides  trade   execution   services  in  Nasdaq,
exchange-listed,  and other securities  primarily to  broker-dealers,  including
Schwab, and institutional  clients.  The U.S. Trust segment provides investment,
wealth  management,   custody,   fiduciary,  and  private  banking  services  to
individual and institutional  clients. For financial  information by segment and
geographic  area,  and for  revenues  by major  client for the three years ended
December  31,  2002,  see  note  "25 -  Segment  Information"  in the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.

(c) Narrative Description of Business

                                Business Strategy

     The  Company's  primary  strategy  is to  serve  the  needs  of  individual
investors  either  directly  or  indirectly  through  intermediaries,   IAs,  or
corporate  retirement  plan  sponsors.  Meeting these  investment  needs entails
offering a variety of financial services including retail brokerage,  investment
and wealth management, custody and fiduciary services, support services for IAs,
investment  services to companies and their employees  (including 401(k) defined
contribution  plans),  equity  securities  market-making,  and banking and other
financial services.  Additionally,  the Company provides  institutional  clients
with equity trade execution services, mutual fund clearing services,  investment
management,  and  fiduciary  services.  The Company,  through its  subsidiaries,
serves 8.0 million  active client  accounts(a).  Client assets in these accounts
totaled $764.8 billion at December 31, 2002.
     To pursue its strategy and its  objective of long-term  profitable  growth,
the Company plans to leverage its  competitive  advantages,  which include:
-    a broad range of products, services, and advice offerings,
-    multi-channel delivery systems,
-    an ongoing investment in technology, and
-    nationally recognized brands.
     Management  continues to believe that the key to  sustaining  the Company's
competitive  advantages  will be its ability to combine people and technology in
ways that provide investors with the access,  information,  guidance, advice and
control they expect - as well as high-quality service - all at a lower cost than
traditional providers of financial services.
     The  Company's  infrastructure  and  resources  are focused on pursuing six
strategic priorities:
-    providing   the   spectrum   of   affluent   investors   with  the  advice,
     relationships, and choices that support their desired investment outcomes;
-    delivering  the  information,  technology,  service,  and pricing needed to
     remain a leader in serving active traders;
-    continuing to provide  high-quality  service to emerging affluent clients -
     those with less than $250,000 in assets;
-    providing  individual  investing  services  through  employers,   including
     retirement and option plans as well as personal brokerage accounts;
-    offering selected banking services and developing  investment products that
     give clients greater control and understanding of their finances; and
-    retaining a strong capital markets business to address investors' financial
     product and trade execution needs.

     For  further   discussion  on  the   Company's   business   strategy,   see
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Results of  Operations  and Financial
Condition - Description  of Business - Business  Strategy" in the Company's 2002
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     The table below shows the  Company's  sources of revenues on a  comparative
basis for the three years ended December 31, 2002.

--------
(a) Accounts with balances or activity within the preceding eight months.


                                     - 2 -

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Sources of Revenues
(In millions)

Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     2002                  2001                  2000
                                                             ----------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                Amount   Percent      Amount   Percent      Amount   Percent
                                                             ----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>      <C>          <C>
Revenues
Asset management and administration fees
   Mutual fund service fees:
       Proprietary funds (SchwabFunds(R)
         and Excelsior(R))                                     $   874       21%     $   818       19%     $   673       12%
       Mutual Fund OneSource(R)                                    264        7%         282        6%         331        6%
       Other                                                        42        1%          41        1%          35
   Asset management and related services                           581       14%         534       12%         544        9%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Asset management and administration fees                         1,761       43%       1,675       38%       1,583       27%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commissions
   Exchange-listed securities                                      552       13%         540       12%         832       14%
   Nasdaq and other equity securities                              444       11%         606       14%       1,126       19%
   Mutual funds                                                    111        3%          95        2%         132        2%
   Options                                                          99        2%         114        3%         204        4%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commissions                                                      1,206       29%       1,355       31%       2,294       39%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net interest revenue
   Margin loans to clients                                         459       11%         832       19%       1,772       30%
   Investments, client-related                                     337        8%         555       13%         338        6%
   Private banking loans                                           236        6%         240        5%         219        4%
   Securities available for sale                                    76        2%          79        2%          69        1%
   Other                                                            78        2%         151        3%         191        4%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Interest revenue                                              1,186       29%       1,857       42%       2,589       45%
   Interest expense                                               (345)      (9%)       (928)     (21%)     (1,352)     (24%)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net interest revenue                                               841       20%         929       21%       1,237       21%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Principal transactions
   Fixed income securities                                          92        3%          65        2%          53        1%
   Nasdaq and other equity securities                               80        2%         173        4%         470        8%
   Other                                                            12                    17                    47        1%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Principal transactions                                             184        5%         255        6%         570       10%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other                                                              143        3%         139        4%         104        3%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total revenues                                                 $ 4,135      100%     $ 4,353      100%     $ 5,788      100%
====================================================================================================================================

This table should be read in connection with the Company's  consolidated financial statements and notes in the Company's 2002 Annual
Report to Stockholders,  which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report. Certain prior years' revenues
and expenses have been reclassified to conform to the 2002 presentation.

</TABLE>


                    Products, Services, and Advice Offerings

     The  Company  offers  a broad  range  of  products,  services,  and  advice
offerings to address its clients' varying  investment and financial needs.  Such
offerings  are made through the Company's  four segments - Individual  Investor,
Institutional Investor, Capital Markets, and U.S. Trust.

Individual Investors

     Investors at Schwab,  through the Individual Investor segment or indirectly
through  the  Institutional  Investor  segment,  have  access  to the  accounts,
features, tools, services, and products described below.

     Accounts and Features.  Through various types of brokerage accounts, Schwab
offers the purchase and sale of securities which include Nasdaq, exchange-listed
and other equity  securities,  options,  mutual funds,  unit investment  trusts,
variable  annuities and fixed income  investments,  including  U.S.  Treasuries,
zero-coupon  bonds,   exchange-listed  and  over-the-counter   corporate  bonds,
municipal  bonds,   Government  National  Mortgage  Association  securities  and
certificates  of deposit.  Schwab also offers certain of its clients

                                     - 3 -

initial and secondary public stock offerings, debt underwritings,  and access to
futures and commodities trading. Additionally, Schwab provides clients access to
a variety of life insurance and annuity products through  third-party  insurance
companies.
     Clients approved for margin  transactions may borrow a portion of the price
of certain  securities  purchased  through Schwab, or may sell securities short.
Clients must have specific  approval to trade options;  as of December 31, 2002,
401,000 accounts had such approval. To write uncovered options,  clients must go
through an additional approval process and must maintain a significantly  higher
level of equity in their brokerage accounts.
     Schwab Signature  Client(TM) is designed to serve self-directed  individual
investors who want to manage their own  portfolios.  For these  clients,  Schwab
offers the Schwab  One(R)  account,  which is an asset  management  account that
allows  clients to combine  investments  and cash in one  account.  A client may
access  available  funds in his or her Schwab One account either with a personal
check, a VISA(R) debit card with ATM access, or Schwab  BillPay(R),  in addition
to the Schwab MoneyLink(R)  service offered with all brokerage accounts.  When a
Schwab One client is approved for margin trading, the checks and debit card also
provide access to margin cash available.  For cash balances awaiting investment,
Schwab pays interest to Schwab One clients. Alternatively, qualifying Schwab One
clients may choose to invest in several SchwabFunds(R) sweep money market funds,
including state-specific municipal tax-exempt funds.
     For  affluent  clients who meet  certain  trading or asset  levels,  Schwab
offers additional benefits such as premium research,  priority handling of their
service calls,  access to IAs, and other services.  Additionally,  Schwab offers
the Schwab Access(R) account to clients with combined assets of $100,000 or more
at Schwab.  The Schwab  Access  account is a payment  account  designed  to work
alongside the Schwab One account,  allowing clients to manage their  investments
and  conduct  many  of  their  cash   management   activities   all  within  one
relationship.  The Schwab Access account  features  include online bill payment,
unlimited check writing, a VISA Gold debit card with ATM access,  returned check
copies, and unlimited money transfers within Schwab accounts. Cash balances in a
Schwab Access account are swept daily into the Schwab  Government  Cash Reserves
Fund, a sweep money fund.
     Schwab Private Client is a fee-based service designed for investors with at
least  $500,000 in assets at Schwab who desire  investment  guidance and advice,
yet want to be actively  involved  with  day-to-day  investment  decisions.  The
Schwab Private Client account is structured with an asset-based  pricing fee and
includes portfolio  construction guidance,  ongoing monitoring,  and a number of
commission-free  equity trades.  Through Schwab Private  Client,  investors have
access to a team of consultants who can provide financial  guidance as discussed
below under "Help and  Advice,  Investment  Education,  Research,  and  Analysis
Tools."
     Schwab  Signature  Platinum(R),  the  successor  to  the  Schwab  Signature
Services(R)  program,  is designed to meet the specific  needs of  self-directed
affluent investors with at least $500,000 in assets at Schwab.  Schwab Signature
Platinum offers a tailored set of  complimentary  benefits,  including  priority
service, an expanded suite of investing resources, and preferred pricing.
     For active  traders,  Schwab offers accounts that include access to special
features and  services  such as advanced  trading  tools,  priority  access to a
dedicated  team of trading  specialists,  and reduced  pricing on equity trades.
Additionally, depending on trading levels, active traders may qualify for Schwab
Strategic  Trading  Resources(TM)  benefits,  which includes access to a team of
trading  experts,  free premium  research  (including  foreign stock  research),
discounted commissions, and other exclusive benefits.  CyberTrader also offers a
brokerage  account to its clients.  Features of this account  include  access to
CyberTrader's proprietary software designed to benefit highly active traders and
the choice of manual or automated order routing for placing trades.
     Schwab acts as  custodian,  as well as broker,  for  Individual  Retirement
Accounts  (IRAs) and Keogh  accounts.  In Schwab IRAs,  cash  balances are swept
daily into one of three  SchwabFunds  money market funds.  Schwab's  IRA-related
services include the Personal  Rollover  Specialist,  a service designed to help
clients  process  transfers of retirement  assets from former  employers  and/or
consolidate  their  retirement  investments.  Active IRAs and Keogh  accounts at
December 31, 2002 totaled 3,500,000,  up 5% from December 31, 2001, while client
assets in all IRAs and Keogh accounts decreased 9% to $184.5 billion.

     Help and Advice,  Investment Education,  Research,  and Analysis Tools. The
Company  seeks to provide  clients with  customized  advice which is  objective,
uncomplicated,  and not driven by sales  commissions.  The Company's approach to
advice is based on  long-term  investment  strategies  and guidance on portfolio
diversification  and asset  allocation.  This approach is designed to be offered
consistently  across all of Schwab's delivery channels and provides clients with
a wide  selection  of choices for their  investment  needs.  Schwab's  products,
services,  and advice  offerings  cross the  spectrum of its clients - those who
manage their own investments and make independent  investment  decisions,  those
who  want  ongoing  access  to  guidance  while  retaining  control  over  their
investment  decisions,  and those who desire to have  experienced  professionals
manage their assets.
     For affluent  investors  who make  independent  investment  decisions,  the
Company  offers  research,  analytic  tools,  and access to fee-based  portfolio
consultations and financial planning services. Clients looking for more guidance
have access to advanced research, trading and planning resources,

                                      - 4-

combined with professional advice from Schwab's investment  specialists designed
to assist in developing an investment  strategy and carrying out  investment and
portfolio management decisions.
     The Company's  full-service advice and relationship  service offer includes
the Schwab Advisor Network(TM) (the Network),  Schwab Private Client, and Schwab
Equity Ratings(TM).
     The Network, the successor to the Schwab AdvisorSource(R) referral program,
is designed for investors who want the assistance of an independent professional
in managing their financial  affairs.  The IAs in the Network provide  investors
with personalized portfolio management, financial planning and wealth management
solutions.  The Network has over 340 participating IAs who have an average of 17
years of experience and $500 million of assets under  management at December 31,
2002. The Network strengthens the  Schwab/advisor/client  relationship through a
pricing  model that  allows for  sharing  fee income on  referred  accounts  and
features IAs more prominently in advertising  that targets  affluent  investors.
Through a separate  program,  Schwab  clients and  potential  clients who desire
personalized  investment  management,  wealth  management,  trust,  and  private
banking services can receive referrals to U.S. Trust.
     Schwab Private Client features a face-to-face  advice  relationship  with a
designated Schwab consultant who offers individualized service, provides ongoing
investment  strategy and execution,  and acts as a liaison between clients and a
team of Schwab  professionals.  Additionally,  Schwab  Private  Client  provides
access to dedicated support resources,  expanded asset management  capabilities,
and enhanced portfolio tracking and performance reporting. Schwab Private Client
includes  over 160  designated  Schwab  consultants  and their  support teams at
December 31, 2002.
     Schwab Equity Ratings provide clients with an objective stock rating system
on more than 3,000 stocks,  assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or
F. On average,  A-rated  stocks are expected to strongly  outperform the overall
market over the next 12 months,  while  F-rated  stocks are expected to strongly
underperform  the  market.  Rated  stocks  are  ranked  and the  number  of 'buy
consideration'  ratings - As and Bs - equals the number of 'sell  consideration'
ratings - Ds and Fs.  Schwab Equity  Ratings  leverages  Schwab's  November 2000
acquisition  of Chicago  Investment  Analytics,  Inc.  (CIA) by  applying  CIA's
research  and  technology  strengths to a systematic  ratings  methodology  that
complements  the  variety of  perspectives  already  available  to clients  from
Goldman Sachs, Standard & Poor's, Argus, and First Call.
     Schwab's   MarketPlace   is  an  internal  Web  site  which   includes  the
AdviceSuite, a software platform that enables service representatives to apply a
consistent set of principles and practices when providing market  viewpoints and
investment  advice.  Schwab  enhanced  MarketPlace  to  include  an  'Investment
Products'  home  page  with  lists of  investment  perspectives  across  various
products,  sectors,  and  styles.  MarketPlace  also  provides  tools to support
discussions  with clients about events such as retirement  and college  planning
and charitable  giving.  Schwab's Mutual Fund internal Web site provides service
representatives  with news,  research,  and analytic  tools  designed to support
their fund-related  advice  interactions with clients.  In addition,  to support
service  representatives'  fund-related advice  interactions,  Schwab's internal
Mutual Fund Web site provides  representatives with Morningstar analysis on over
1,400  funds.  Schwab  redesigned  its  Mutual  Fund  Select  List(R) to include
qualitative  analyses  for each asset class as well as an  integrated  view that
includes asset class summaries, category descriptions,  and average expenses for
each fund, presented together on a single page.
     Schwab strives to demystify investing by educating and assisting clients in
the development of investment plans.  Educational tools include:  WebShop(R),  a
series of workshops  designed to help  investors  increase their skills in using
Schwab's online services;  the Schwab Learning  Center(R),  interactive  courses
designed to help clients learn more about  investing  principles  and use of the
online  channel;   and  the  Smart  Investor(TM),   a  centralized  location  on
schwab.com(TM)  for educational  information  about  investing.  The Live Online
program is a series of  workshops  that  utilize the  Internet  to bring  Schwab
representatives and clients together to discuss investing strategies, retirement
planning and wealth management in a highly interactive  format.  Representatives
from the Schwab Center for Investment  Research(R),  Schwab Equity Research(TM),
and Schwab  Investment Center routinely host Webcasts designed to help investors
navigate  the  current  markets.  Along with  advice on  investment  objectives,
diversification,  and risk management,  representatives share their perspectives
on current market conditions and possible investment opportunities.
     Schwab provides  various  Internet-based  research and analysis tools which
are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes,  including: the
Positions  Monitor,  which  tracks  clients'  mutual  fund and equity  holdings'
historical  performance;  the Schwab Portfolio  Checkup(R),  an asset allocation
tool that also allows clients to include non-Schwab  holdings in their analyses;
and  SchwabAlerts(R),  which  delivers  investment  and market  activity news to
clients via both wireless and e-mail. Additionally, Schwab provides a variety of
stock selection  tools. For investors  seeking ideas,  Schwab provides the Stock
Screener,  which allows  clients to search over 9,000  equities  using their own
criteria,  and Schwab Stock Lists(TM),  which are compiled using an unbiased and
systematic  approach.  For  investors  desiring  to  analyze a  specific  equity
security,  Schwab provides the Charles Schwab Stock Analyzer(R),  which provides
data for the specific  equity  security and helps clients  interpret  such data.
Schwab's  research  and analysis  tools  include  OptionStreet(R),  which offers
improved online trading screens,  tools, and educational  content to clients who
use options in managing their  portfolios.  On the schwab.com 'My Home' section,
clients can view and manage all of their account balances, watch

                                     - 5 -

lists,  quotes,  research,  and market  information  on one  customizable  page.
Additionally, quotes on money market yields and Schwab BillPay(R) enrollment are
available  online.  Schwab  also  has a  feature  on its Web  site  that  guides
prospective  clients to selected  service  offerings,  based on their individual
investing behavior and needs.

     Trading  Technology and Tools. The Company strives to deliver  information,
technology,  service and pricing  which meets the needs of active  traders.  For
highly active traders,  CyberTrader  offers  integrated  software-based  trading
platforms - CyberX2(TM) and CyberTrader Pro(TM), which utilize direct access and
intelligent order routing technology.  CyberX2 is a user-friendly trading system
with point and click order  entry,  advanced  charting  capabilities,  streaming
news, stock watch lists,  multiple Electronic  Communication  Network (ECN) Book
quotes,  and advanced risk management  tools.  CyberTrader Pro is a multifaceted
trading  platform  that offers all of the  features of CyberX2  plus  additional
features  including  analytical tools,  stock filtering tools, and live charting
capabilities. Additionally, CyberTrader offers CyberTrader.com(TM),  a streaming
Web trading  platform  which  includes  real-time  market  data,  direct  access
technology,  intelligent  order  routing,  options  trading,  and premium  stock
research. When clients are away from their trading platforms,  CyberTrader keeps
them connected with  CyberTrader  Wireless(TM),  a service giving clients access
via handheld  communication  devices to  order-routing  capabilities,  real-time
quotes, customizable stock lists, and account information. Through CyberTrader's
Web site,  clients have access to CyberTrader  U(TM),  which offers a variety of
introductory and intermediate online classes committed to assisting  individuals
become more educated traders.  The Company offers competitive pricing across all
of  CyberTrader's  platforms  with  prices  as low as $9.95  for  equity  trades
depending on trading levels.
     For active  traders,  Schwab also  offers  Velocity(R),  a desktop  trading
software,   and  StreetSmart  Pro(R),  which  leverages   CyberTrader's  trading
technology  and  combines  Nasdaq  Level II quotes,  real-time  streaming  news,
unlimited watch lists, and real-time  streaming  interactive charts with account
management features, risk management tools,  multi-channel access, and dedicated
personal support. StreetSmart Pro allows clients to execute their trades through
SmartEx(R) - Schwab's proprietary  order-routing  technology - without having to
access another trading program. Through education initiatives such as the Branch
Active  Trader  program,  Schwab  clients can receive  training  from  specially
qualified representatives on all of these advanced trading platforms. To support
representatives'  conversations  with active traders,  the Company offers Active
Trader Street, an internal Web site that provides Schwab  representatives with a
comprehensive  suite  of  investing   perspectives,   trading  strategies,   and
educational  tools.   Clients  can  experience  these  active  trader  offerings
firsthand  by meeting  with a  specially-trained  field  consultant  in a branch
office.

     Client Financing and Clearing Services.  Clients'  securities  transactions
are  conducted  on either a cash or margin  basis.  Generally,  a client  buying
securities  in a cash-only  brokerage  account is  required  to make  payment by
settlement  date,  usually  three  business  days  after the trade is  executed.
However,  for purchases of certain types of  securities,  such as certain mutual
fund  shares,  a client must have a cash or money  market fund balance in his or
her account  sufficient  to pay for the trade prior to  execution.  When selling
securities,  a client is required to deliver the securities,  and is entitled to
receive the proceeds,  on settlement  date. In an account  authorized for margin
trading,  Schwab  may lend a client a portion  of the  market  value of  certain
securities up to the limit  established by the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System  (Federal  Reserve  Board),  which for most equity  securities is
initially 50%. These loans are  collateralized by the securities in the client's
account.  Short sales of securities  represent sales of borrowed  securities and
create an obligation  for the client to purchase the securities at a later date.
Clients may sell securities  short in a margin account subject to minimum equity
and applicable margin requirements and the availability of such securities to be
borrowed  and  delivered.  Interest  on  margin  loans to  clients  provides  an
important source of revenue to Schwab.  During 2002, Schwab's outstanding margin
loans to clients  averaged  $8.0  billion and were $6.6  billion at December 31,
2002.
     In permitting a client to engage in transactions,  Schwab faces credit risk
if the  client  fails to meet his or her  obligations  in the  event of  adverse
changes in the market value of the  securities  positions in his or her account.
Under applicable rules and regulations for margin  transactions,  Schwab, in the
event of such an adverse  change,  requires  the  client to  deposit  additional
securities or cash, so that the amount of the client's obligation is not greater
than  specified  percentages  of the cash and market values of the securities in
the account.  As a matter of policy,  Schwab  generally  requires its clients to
maintain higher  percentages of collateral  values than the minimum  percentages
required under these regulations.
     Schwab may use cash balances in client  accounts to extend margin credit to
other clients.  Pursuant to the requirements of Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Rule  15c3-3),  the portion of such cash balances not used
to extend margin credit (increased or decreased by certain other  client-related
balances) must be held in segregated investment accounts.  The balances in these
segregated investment accounts must be invested in cash or qualified securities,
as defined by Rule 15c3-3.  To the extent  Schwab's  clients  elect to have cash
balances in their  brokerage  accounts swept into certain  SchwabFunds(R)  money
market  funds,  the cash  balances  available to Schwab for  investments  or for
financing  margin loans are reduced.

                                     - 6 -

However,  Schwab  receives asset  management and  administration  fees from such
funds  based  upon  average  daily  invested  balances.  See also  "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition - Risk
Management"  in the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  13.1 of this  report,  and
"Regulation" in this report.
     Schwab performs  clearing  services for all securities  transactions in its
client accounts.  Schwab clears the vast majority of client transactions through
the  facilities of The  Depository  Trust & Clearing  Corporation or the Options
Clearing   Corporation.   Certain  other  transactions,   such  as  mutual  fund
transactions and transactions in securities not eligible for settlement  through
a clearing  corporation,  are settled  directly  with the mutual  funds or other
financial institutions. Schwab is obligated to settle transactions with clearing
corporations,  mutual funds and other  financial  institutions  even if Schwab's
client  fails  to meet  his or her  obligations  to  Schwab.  In  addition,  for
transactions that do not settle through a clearing  corporation,  Schwab assumes
the risk of the other  party's  failure  to  settle  the  trade.  See note "23 -
Financial  Instruments Subject to Off-Balance-Sheet  Risk, Credit Risk or Market
Risk" in the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in the Company's 2002
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

     Mutual Funds. The Company provides mutual fund services  primarily  through
the  Individual  Investor,  Institutional  Investor,  and U.S.  Trust  segments.
Schwab's Mutual Fund Marketplace(R)  provides clients with the ability to invest
in over 3,100  mutual funds from a wide  variety of fund  companies.  Within the
Mutual Fund  Marketplace,  Schwab's  Mutual  Fund  OneSource(R)  service  offers
clients  access to over  1,700  no-load  mutual  funds  from a  variety  of fund
families without  incurring  transaction  fees. The Mutual Fund Marketplace also
includes  Schwab's  mutual fund clearing  service,  which  provides  mutual fund
trading and clearing services to banks and broker-dealers.
     Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource  service allows investors to access multiple
mutual fund companies,  avoid brokerage transaction fees, and achieve investment
diversification among fund families. In addition,  investors'  recordkeeping and
investment  monitoring are simplified through one consolidated  statement.  Fees
received  by  Schwab  for  providing  services,   including   recordkeeping  and
shareholder services,  from the Mutual Fund OneSource program are based upon the
daily  balances of client  assets  invested in the  participating  funds through
Schwab and are paid by the funds and/or fund sponsors. Client assets invested in
third-party  funds that have been  purchased  through the Mutual Fund  OneSource
service were $73.6 billion at December 31, 2002.
     Schwab  charges a  transaction  fee on trades  placed  in  non-Mutual  Fund
OneSource funds included in the Mutual Fund Marketplace. These fees are recorded
as commission  revenues.  In addition to the third-party funds available through
the  Mutual  Fund  Marketplace,  Schwab  offers a family of  proprietary  funds,
referred to as the SchwabFunds(R), and U.S. Trust offers the Excelsior(R) family
of funds.  Fees received by the Company from the  SchwabFunds  and the Excelsior
funds, for providing shareholder services, administration, investment management
and other services, are based upon the net asset value of the funds.
     SchwabFunds  include  money market funds,  equity index funds,  bond funds,
asset allocation  funds,  funds that primarily  invest in stock,  bond and money
market funds, and actively-managed equity funds. Schwab's proprietary funds also
include the Schwab  MarketMasters  Funds(TM),  Schwab Core Equity Fund(TM),  and
Schwab Hedged Equity  Fund(TM).  Schwab  MarketMasters  Funds is a suite of four
funds  designed to spread  investment  risk and reduce  volatility  by employing
third-party investment managers with different styles and strategies. The Schwab
Core Equity Fund and the Schwab Hedged Equity Fund combine the equity  selection
capabilities  of  Schwab  Equity  Ratings(TM)  with  the   diversification   and
convenience of a mutual fund.  Client assets  invested in the  SchwabFunds  were
$144.8 billion at December 31, 2002.
     Excelsior   funds   include   actively-managed   domestic   equity   funds,
international equity funds, taxable fixed income funds,  tax-exempt fixed income
funds and money market funds. Client assets invested in the Excelsior funds were
$12.6 billion at December 31, 2002.

     International.  The Company's  international  business  serves both foreign
investors  and  non-English-speaking  U.S.  clients.  At December 31, 2002,  the
Company had a presence in the United Kingdom,  Hong Kong and the Cayman Islands.
In  the  U.S.,  the  Company  serves   Chinese-,   Korean-,   Vietnamese-,   and
Spanish-speaking  clients through a combination of designated branch offices and
Web-based and telephonic services. As of December 31, 2002, client assets in the
Company's   international  business  totaled  $19.4  billion.  See  note  "27  -
Subsequent  Event"  in the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the
Company's 2002 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by
reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

Institutional Investors

     Services for IAs. Schwab provides custodial,  trading, technology, Web, and
other  support  services to IAs,  whose  services are integral to the  Company's
advice  offerings,  through the Institutional  Investor segment.  To attract the
business of these advisors,  Schwab has a dedicated business unit which includes
experienced registered representatives assigned to individual advisors.

                                      - 7 -

     IAs participating in this program who custody client accounts at Schwab may
use the SchwabLink(R) for Windows(R) product,  the Schwab  Institutional(R)  Web
site, and the Managed Account  Connection(R)  service, and their clients can use
the Schwab Signature Services  Alliance(TM)  program.  SchwabLink for Windows, a
proprietary  software,  provides IAs with up-to-date client account information,
as well as mutual  fund  trading and  management  fee  capabilities.  The Schwab
Institutional  Web site is the core platform for IAs to conduct  daily  business
activities  online with Schwab,  including  trading,  submitting  client account
information,  and retrieving  news and market  information.  The Managed Account
Connection service enables IAs to provide their clients with personalized equity
portfolio  management by a variety of institutional  asset managers.  The Schwab
Signature Services Alliance provides enhanced  personalized  services to clients
of IAs, including access to a dedicated team of  representatives  and the Schwab
Alliance Web site.
     Schwab's  services to help IAs manage and build their practices include the
Electronic Account Submission service,  which allows IAs to establish new client
account numbers  immediately  upon request,  and the Managed  Account  Select(R)
service,  which enables IAs to provide clients with access to pre-screened money
managers and fixed income  managers  under a  simplified  single-fee  structure.
Schwab's  Centerpiece(R),  a  portfolio  management  system  for  IAs,  combines
portfolio  accounting,   performance  measurement,  fixed  income  analysis  and
tracking,  and  report  customization   capabilities  into  a  single  networked
application. To further assist IAs in growing their businesses,  Schwab conducts
advisor education workshops on operational,  trading, and technology  solutions.
At  December  31,  2002,  Schwab  client  assets  held in  accounts  managed  by
approximately 5,900 active IAs totaled $222.4 billion.

     Corporate  Services.  The Company  also serves  individuals  through  their
workplace in a variety of ways. The Company  provides 401(k)  recordkeeping  and
other retirement plan services directly through a dedicated sales force, as well
as indirectly through alliances with third-party administrators.  SchwabPlan(R),
the Company's 401(k) retirement plan product,  offers plan sponsors a wide array
of investment options,  participant  education and servicing,  trustee services,
and participant-level  recordkeeping.  SchwabPlan features include an electronic
desktop  delivery  service  that allows plan  participants  to receive  detailed
account information via encrypted e-mail, and a Web site that allows individuals
who  are  using   Schwab's   retirement   plan  services   through   third-party
administrators to utilize the education, planning, and investment tools that are
available to SchwabPlan  participants.  SchwabPlan Select(TM) is a comprehensive
bundled 401(k) plan designed  specifically  to meet the needs of 401(k) programs
with between $2 million and $20 million in participant assets.  Under SchwabPlan
Select,  plan  sponsors can build  investment  menus from  hundreds of different
mutual funds and  participants  have full access to Schwab's online planning and
education  tools,  regional client telephone  service centers,  and Web support.
Retirement plan sponsors have access to a monthly online report that allows them
to monitor activity and investment performance in their plans against customized
criteria and  benchmarks.  The report also provides plan asset  allocations  and
trend data,  market  commentary,  industry data,  fund  summaries,  and the most
recent mutual fund Schwab Focus  List(TM),  which is  specifically  designed for
retirement   plan   sponsors.   At  December   31,   2002,   client   assets  in
employer-sponsored  retirement plans totaled $88.4 billion, which included $29.3
billion serviced by Schwab's retirement plan services business.
     The Company  offers  stock  option plan and  restricted  stock  services to
companies, as well as trade execution and education services to their employees.
These services include online tools such as Schwab OptionCenter(R), which allows
access to stock option accounts where employees can research, model and exercise
their options and  StockPlanManager(TM),  which allows companies to search, view
and run reports on stock  option  data.  The Company  offers a live  interactive
seminar  called 'Stock  Option  Strategies  and Issues' for clients  looking for
information  on what to consider  when  developing a  personalized  stock option
strategy.

Capital Markets

     The Company  provides  its clients with quick and  efficient  access to the
securities   markets  by   offering   trade   execution   services   in  Nasdaq,
exchange-listed  and other  securities  through its market maker and  specialist
operations.  Clients  also have the  ability  to access  extended-hours  trading
through the  Company's  participation  in  Archipelago,  an ECN, and analyze and
trade a  variety  of fixed  income  securities  through  Schwab's  multi-channel
delivery systems.
     Schwab has  specialist  operations  on the Boston  Stock  Exchange  to make
markets in exchange-listed  securities. The majority of trades originated by the
clients of Schwab in exchange-listed  securities for which Schwab makes a market
are  directed  to this  operation.  At  December  31,  2002,  Schwab  had  three
specialists  on the Boston Stock  Exchange that made markets in 156  securities.
Additionally,  SCM makes markets in Nasdaq  stocks,  which totaled over 5,000 at
December 31, 2002.
     The Company  continues  to enhance  its trade  execution  capabilities  and
financial product offerings.  Through selective hirings, SCM expanded its equity
trading  capabilities to focus on improving execution services for institutional
clients. Additionally, most Nasdaq marketable orders up to 2,000 shares received
by Schwab for  execution  are routed using  SmartEx(R),  its  proprietary  order
routing  technology  that combines  intelligent  order routing with market maker
liquidity  enhancements.  SmartEx  is  available  for  Schwab

                                     - 8 -

client  orders in securities  in which SCM makes a market.  Further,  through an
agreement  with Goldman  Sachs,  clients have access to OptEx (a service mark of
Goldman, Sachs & Co.), which uses advanced technology to scan the entire options
marketplace  and route orders  automatically  based on the best price  available
nationwide and other execution quality factors.
     Clients  also have the  ability  to  analyze  and trade a variety  of fixed
income  securities  through Schwab's  multi-channel  delivery  systems.  Through
Schwab's alliance with Valubond, individual and IA clients can analyze and trade
fixed  income  securities  through the Schwab Web site.  Schwab's  fixed  income
offering includes Schwab BondSource(R) - a fully automated,  online bond trading
system that provides  clients with access to a wide variety of bond  investments
to meet their needs and risk tolerance.  Schwab recently expanded its BondSource
platform to provide additional  information,  new analytical tools, and enhanced
fixed income  securities  price quotes to support more efficient client service.
Schwab's fixed income offering also includes Schwab CDSource(R),  a service that
enables clients to research and purchase certificates of deposits from a variety
of FDIC-insured depository institutions,  including U.S. Trust, entirely online.
Additionally,  Schwab has dedicated Schwab Bond Specialists(R) to assist clients
in their decisions.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition - Risk  Management"  in the Company's 2002 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" in this report.

U.S. Trust

     U.S. Trust provides an array of financial services for affluent clients and
their families. These services include investment and wealth management,  trust,
custody, financial and estate planning, and private banking. U.S. Trust provides
both  individually  managed  balanced  portfolios  (i.e.,  portfolios  that  are
invested in several  different asset classes with the overall goal of preserving
and enhancing those assets) and specialized  investment  management  services to
clients  with $2 million  to $50  million in assets at U.S.  Trust.  U.S.  Trust
offers Wealth Advisory  Accounts,  an investment  advisory service that utilizes
the  Excelsior(R)  family of mutual funds, to clients that have over $250,000 in
assets at U.S. Trust. In addition to investment management services,  U.S. Trust
provides specialized fiduciary, financial planning, enhanced master custody, and
philanthropic  consulting  services  to  clients  that have over $50  million in
assets at U.S. Trust.  U.S. Trust also offers private banking services to assist
in meeting the credit and liquidity  requirements of its clients. These services
include mortgage and personal  lending  vehicles and an array of  deposit-taking
products.  Additionally,  affluent investors may receive referrals to U.S. Trust
from  Schwab.  U.S.  Trust's Web site  provides  clients  with secure  access to
consolidated account information as well as updated equity pricing,  proprietary
research,  and financial information from third-party  providers.  Additionally,
clients can download their account  information into selected financial software
programs,  view their  portfolio asset  allocations in real-time,  and make bill
payments directly from the Web site.
     For institutional clients, including corporations, endowments, foundations,
and pension plans, U.S. Trust provides  investment  management,  brokerage,  and
special fiduciary services.  Through these investment management services,  U.S.
Trust  offers  a wide  range  of  investment  options,  including  balanced  and
specialized   domestic  and   international   equity   investments,   structured
investments,  alternative investments,  fixed income securities,  and short-term
cash management. Institutional clients can also utilize the Excelsior funds.
     Additionally,  U.S. Trust offers to its institutional  clients  investment,
consulting and fiduciary  services for employee stock ownership  plans.  Special
fiduciary   services  also  include  trustee   services  for   non-qualified  or
supplemental employee benefit plans, also known as rabbi trusts.


                         Multi-Channel Delivery Systems

     The Company's  multi-channel  delivery  systems allow clients to choose how
they prefer to do business  with the Company.  In addition to its branch  office
network, Schwab maintains four regional client telephone service centers as well
as automated telephonic and online channels,  primarily serving retail investors
through the Individual Investor and Institutional Investor segments.  U.S. Trust
maintains offices serving clients through the U.S. Trust segment.

Office Network

     To  enable   clients  to  obtain   services   in  person   with  a  Company
representative,  the Company  maintains a network of  offices.  At December  31,
2002,  Schwab  operated 388 domestic  branch offices in 48 states,  as well as a
branch in the  Commonwealth  of Puerto Rico.  At December 31, 2002,  U.S.  Trust
operated 34 offices in 12 states.  In  addition,  the Company had offices in the
Cayman Islands,  Hong Kong and the United Kingdom.  The Company's office network
plays a key role in building its business.  With the client  service  support of
regional client  telephone  service centers and automated  telephonic and online
channels, office personnel focus a significant portion of their time on business
development  and help and advice  interactions  with  clients.  Clients  can use
Schwab's  branch  offices  to open  accounts,  deliver  and  receive  checks and
securities,  obtain market information,  place orders, and obtain related client
services in person,  yet most of these  activities  are  conducted by telephone,
mail, and online channels. Schwab's branch offices

                                      - 9-

also provide  investors  with access to the Internet and to Schwab's  registered
representatives   who  can  assist  investors  in  developing  asset  allocation
strategies and evaluating  their  investment  choices.  U.S. Trust's clients can
meet with wealth  management  professionals at regional offices to obtain access
to U.S. Trust's wide array of financial services and products.

Regional Client Telephone Service Centers

     Schwab's four regional client telephone service centers, located in Denver,
Indianapolis, Orlando, and Phoenix, handle client trading and service calls. The
Company closed its telephone service center in Austin,  Texas in 2002 as part of
its restructuring initiatives.
     Schwab's  client  service  approach  is to  use  teams  led  by  registered
representatives  in the service  centers,  who work closely with office  network
personnel.  Additionally,  certain  teams at these centers  provide  specialized
services to affluent  clients.  Each  registered  representative  has  immediate
access to the client account and market-related information necessary to respond
to client  inquiries.  For most client orders,  registered  representatives  can
enter the order and confirm  the  transaction  immediately.  As a result of this
approach, the departure of a registered representative generally does not result
in a loss of clients for Schwab.

Online and Automated Telephonic Channels

     Clients are able to obtain  financial  information and execute trades on an
automated basis through Schwab's automated telephonic and online channels. These
channels  are  designed to provide  added  convenience  for clients and minimize
Schwab's costs of responding to and processing routine client transactions.
     Schwab's  automated  telephonic  channels include  TeleBroker(R) - Schwab's
touch-tone  telephone  quote and  trading  service,  and Schwab by  Phone(TM)  -
Schwab's  voice  recognition  quote  and  trading  service.  Schwab's  automated
telephonic  channels  handled over 70% of client calls received in 2002.  Schwab
handled approximately 59 million automated and live calls received in 2002.
     Online  channels  include the Charles Schwab Web Site, an  information  and
trading service on the Internet at schwab.com(TM);  the Schwab  Institutional(R)
Web site, a platform for IAs to conduct daily activities;  the SchwabPlan(R) Web
site, a service on the Internet at  schwabplan.com  where plan  participants and
sponsors can manage their 401(k) accounts;  and Schwab Wireless(TM),  a wireless
information  and trading  service.  Additionally,  online  mediums  designed for
highly active traders include StreetSmart Pro(R) and Velocity(R), online trading
systems  which provide  enhanced  trade  information  and order  execution,  and
CyberTrader's  integrated  software-based  trading platforms.  While most client
transactions are completed through the online channel,  the Company continues to
stress the  importance  of Clicks and Mortar  access - blending the power of the
Internet with personal service to create a full-service  client experience.  The
Company's online channels handled 83% of total trades in 2002.


                                   Technology

     The  Company's  ongoing  investment  in  technology  is a  key  element  in
expanding its product and service  offerings,  enhancing  its delivery  systems,
providing fast and consistent  client service,  reducing  processing  costs, and
facilitating  the Company's  ability to handle  significant  increases in client
activity  without a  corresponding  rise in staffing  levels.  The Company  uses
technology  to empower its clients to manage  their  financial  affairs and is a
leader in driving technological advancements in the financial services industry.
     The Company's  operations  rely heavily on its  information  processing and
communications  systems.  The  Company's  system  for  processing  a  securities
transaction is highly automated. Registered representatives equipped with online
computer  terminals can access client  account  information,  obtain  securities
prices and related information, and enter orders online.
     To  support  its  multi-channel   delivery   systems,   as  well  as  other
applications such as clearing functions, account administration,  recordkeeping,
and direct  client  access to investment  information,  the Company  maintains a
sophisticated computer network connecting all of the offices and regional client
telephone service centers.  The Company's computers are also linked to the major
registered  U.S.   securities  markets  and  The  Depository  Trust  &  Clearing
Corporation.
     Failure of the Company's information  processing or communications  systems
for a significant  period of time could limit the  Company's  ability to process
its large volume of  transactions  accurately and rapidly.  This could cause the
Company to be unable to satisfy its obligations to clients and other  securities
firms, and could result in regulatory  violations.  External events,  such as an
earthquake,  terrorist  attack, or power failure,  loss of external  information
feeds such as security price information,  as well as internal malfunctions such
as those that could occur  during the  implementation  of system  modifications,
could render part or all of such systems inoperative.
     To enhance the reliability of the system and integrity of data, the Company
maintains backup and recovery  functions.  These include logging of all critical
files intraday,  duplication and storage of all critical data every  twenty-four
hours,  and maintenance of facilities for backup and  communications.  They also
include the  maintenance and periodic  testing of a disaster  recovery plan that
management  believes would permit the Company to recommence  essential  computer
operations if its central computer site were to become inaccessible. To minimize
business  interruptions,  the

                                     - 10 -

Company has data centers  intended,  in part, to further improve the recovery of
business processing in the event of an emergency.


                          Nationally Recognized Brands

     The Company's  advertising and marketing  programs  support its strategy by
continually   reinforcing   the  strengths   and  key   attributes  of  Schwab's
full-service   offering,   U.S.   Trust's  wealth   management   services,   and
CyberTrader's  trading  technology.  In 2002,  Schwab launched a new advertising
campaign  designed to  differentiate  Schwab's service model from those of other
full-service firms.  Additionally,  the Company launched a new print advertising
campaign to increase  awareness  of the U.S.  Trust brand and educate  investors
about wealth management. To build its CyberTrader(R) brand, the Company launched
an advertising  campaign  complemented with promotional offers. By maintaining a
consistent  level  of  visibility  in the  marketplace,  the  Company  seeks  to
establish  Schwab,  U.S. Trust,  and CyberTrader as leading  financial  services
brands in a focused and  cost-effective  manner.  The Company  primarily  uses a
combination of network,  cable and local television,  print media,  direct mail,
athletic event sponsorship, and online channels in its advertising.


                                    Employees

     As of December 31, 2002, the Company had full-time, part-time and temporary
employees,  and  persons  employed  on a  contract  basis that  represented  the
equivalent of 16,700 full-time employees.


                                 Risk Management

     The  Company's  business and  activities  expose it to  different  types of
risks.  Proper  identification,  assessment,  and  management of these risks are
essential  to  the  success  and  financial  soundness  of  the  Company.  For a
discussion  on the  Company's  principal  risks  and  some of the  policies  and
procedures for risk identification, assessment and mitigation, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition - Risk
Management"  in the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  13.1 of this  report,  and
"Technology" and "Regulation" in this report.


                              Business Environment

     The Company's business, like that of other securities brokerage and related
financial services firms, is directly affected by the fluctuations in securities
trading volumes and price levels that occur in fundamentally  cyclical financial
markets,  by changes in government  monetary  policies that impact the growth of
bank loans and investments and the level of interest  charged for loans and paid
on  deposits  and other  funding  sources,  and by changes  in the  geopolitical
environment.  The Company may experience significant variations in revenues from
period to period  depending on changes in these factors and the overall business
environment.  Given the  nature of the  Company's  revenues,  expenses  and risk
profile,  the Company's  earnings and CSC's common stock price may be subject to
significant  volatility from period to period.  For a discussion of the business
environment faced by the Company in 2001 and 2002, see "Management's  Discussion
and  Analysis  of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition - Results of
Operations  -  Financial  Overview"  in the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


                                   Competition

     The Company faces significant competition from companies seeking to attract
client financial assets,  including  traditional,  discount and online brokerage
firms, mutual fund companies,  banks, and asset management and wealth management
companies.  For a discussion of competition,  see  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations  and Financial  Condition - Risk  Management -
Competition"  in the  Company's  2002 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


                                   Regulation

     CSC is a financial holding company, which is a type of bank holding company
subject to  supervision  and  regulation by the Federal  Reserve Board under the
Bank  Holding  Company Act of 1956,  as amended.  CSC's  depository  institution
subsidiaries   are  subject  to  regulation  and   supervision  and  to  various
requirements and  restrictions  under federal and state law. For a discussion of
bank holding company  requirements,  see note "21 - Regulatory  Requirements" in
the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in the  Company's  2002 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No.
13.1 of this report.
     The  securities  industry  in the United  States is  subject  to  extensive
regulation  under both  federal  and state laws.  The

                                     - 11 -

SEC is the federal agency charged with  administration of the federal securities
laws.  Schwab,  SCM, and CyberTrader are registered as  broker-dealers  with the
SEC.  Schwab  and CSIM  are  registered  as  investment  advisors  with the SEC.
Additionally,  Schwab is regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC)  with  respect  to  its  introduced   futures  and  commodities   trading
activities.
     Much  of  the   regulation  of   broker-dealers   has  been   delegated  to
self-regulatory  organizations,  principally the national  securities  exchanges
such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), which has been designated by the SEC
as Schwab's primary regulator with respect to its securities activities, and the
NASD,  which has been designated as Schwab's  primary  regulator with respect to
its options trading activities. The NASD has been designated by the SEC as SCM's
and CyberTrader's  primary regulator with respect to its securities  activities.
The  National  Futures  Association  (NFA)  has been  designated  by the CFTC as
Schwab's primary  regulator with respect to its futures and commodities  trading
activities. These self-regulatory organizations adopt rules (subject to approval
by the SEC or CFTC) governing the industry and conduct periodic  examinations of
broker-dealers.  Securities  firms  are  also  subject  to  regulation  by state
securities  authorities in the states in which they do business.  In addition to
its  membership  in the NYSE,  Schwab is also a member of all other  major  U.S.
securities exchanges and is consequently subject to their rules and regulations.
Schwab and SCM were registered as broker-dealers  in fifty states,  the District
of Columbia and Puerto Rico as of December 31, 2002.
     The principal  purpose of regulating and  disciplining  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors is the  protection of clients and the  securities  markets,
rather than  protection  of creditors and  stockholders  of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors.  The  regulations to which  broker-dealers  and investment
advisors are subject  cover all aspects of the  securities  business,  including
sales methods,  trading practices among broker-dealers,  uses and safekeeping of
clients'  funds  and  securities,   capital   structure  of  securities   firms,
recordkeeping and reporting,  fee arrangements,  disclosure to clients,  and the
conduct of directors, officers and employees. As registered investment advisors,
Schwab and CSIM are subject to the  requirements of the Investment  Advisers Act
of 1940 and the  regulations  thereunder,  which  impose,  among  other  things,
various  recordkeeping,   reporting,  and  disclosure  requirements  and  impose
limitations  on fees and  principal  transactions  between  an  advisor  and its
clients.
     Additional  legislation,  changes in rules  promulgated  by the SEC,  other
federal and state regulatory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations,  or
changes in the  interpretation  or  enforcement  of existing  laws and rules may
directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers  and
investment advisors. The profitability of broker-dealers and investment advisors
could also be affected by rules and  regulations  which  impact the business and
financial  communities  in  general,  including  changes  to the laws  governing
taxation,   antitrust  regulation,  and  electronic  commerce.  The  SEC,  CFTC,
self-regulatory  organizations,  and state  securities  authorities  may conduct
civil or administrative proceedings which can result in censure, fine, cease and
desist orders,  or suspension or expulsion of a  broker-dealer  or an investment
advisor,  its officers,  or  employees.  Schwab and SCM have been the subject of
such administrative proceedings.
     As registered  broker-dealers and NASD member  organizations,  Schwab, SCM,
and CyberTrader are required by federal law to belong to the Securities Investor
Protection  Corporation (SIPC), which provides,  in the event of the liquidation
of a  broker-dealer,  protection for securities  held in client accounts held by
the firm of up to $500,000 per client,  subject to a limitation  of $100,000 for
claims  of cash  balances.  SIPC is funded  through  assessments  on  registered
broker-dealers.  In addition,  Schwab  purchased  from a private  surety company
account  protection for clients above the SIPC limit,  as defined,  of up to the
net equity value for client securities and cash in each account.  Stocks, bonds,
mutual  funds,  options,  unit  investment  trusts,  and money  market funds are
considered  securities  for the purposes of SIPC  protection  and the additional
protection (i.e.,  protected securities may either be replaced or converted into
an equivalent market value as of the date a SIPC trustee is appointed).  Neither
SIPC  protection nor the additional  protection  applies to  fluctuations in the
market value of securities.
     Schwab  is  authorized  by the  Municipal  Securities  Rulemaking  Board to
conduct  transactions  in municipal  securities on behalf of its clients and has
obtained  certain  additional  registrations  with the SEC and state  regulatory
agencies necessary to permit it to engage in certain other activities incidental
to its brokerage business.
     Margin  lending by Schwab  and SCM is  subject  to the margin  rules of the
Federal Reserve Board and the NYSE. Under such rules, broker-dealers are limited
in the amount they may lend in connection with certain purchases and short sales
of securities and are also required to impose certain  maintenance  requirements
on the amount of securities and cash held in margin accounts. In addition, those
rules and rules of the  Chicago  Board  Options  Exchange  govern  the amount of
margin clients must provide and maintain in writing uncovered options.
     As a California  state-chartered trust company, CSTC is primarily regulated
by the  State of  California  Department  of  Financial  Institutions.  Since it
provides  employee benefit plan trust services,  CSTC is also required to comply
with  the  Employee   Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of  1974  (ERISA)  and,
consequently,  is subject to oversight by both the Internal  Revenue Service and
Department  of Labor.  CSTC is required  under ERISA to maintain a fidelity bond
for the protection of employee benefit trusts for which it serves as trustee.

                                     - 12 -

     The Company's  business is also subject to  regulation by various  non-U.S.
governments,  securities exchanges, and regulatory bodies, particularly in those
countries  where it has  acquired  subsidiaries.  Such  regulation  may directly
affect  the method of  operation  and  profitability  of the  Company's  foreign
operations.
     As registered broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of CSC, including Schwab
and SCM,  are subject to the Uniform Net Capital  Rule (Rule  15c3-1)  under the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 (the Net  Capital  Rule),  which has also been
adopted  through  incorporation  by reference in NYSE Rule 325. The CFTC and NFA
also impose net capital requirements. The Net Capital Rule specifies minimum net
capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness
and  liquidity of  broker-dealers.  Failure to maintain the required net capital
may subject a firm to suspension or expulsion by the NYSE and the NASD,  certain
punitive  actions by the SEC and other  regulatory  bodies,  and  ultimately may
require  a  firm's   liquidation.   Because  CSC  itself  is  not  a  registered
broker-dealer,  it is not subject to the Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab or
SCM failed to maintain  specified  levels of net  capital,  such  failure  would
constitute a default by CSC under certain debt covenants.
     "Net   capital"  is   essentially   defined  as  net  worth  (assets  minus
liabilities),  plus qualifying subordinated borrowings,  less certain deductions
that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and
from  conservatively  valuing  certain other assets.  These  deductions  include
charges  that  discount  the value of firm  security  positions  to reflect  the
possibility of adverse changes in market value prior to disposition.
     The Net Capital Rule requires  notice of equity  capital  withdrawals to be
provided to the SEC prior to and  subsequent to  withdrawals  exceeding  certain
sizes. Such rule prohibits  withdrawals that would reduce a broker-dealer's  net
capital to an amount less than 25% of its deductions required by the Net Capital
Rule as to its  security  positions.  The Net Capital  Rule also allows the SEC,
under limited circumstances, to restrict a broker-dealer from withdrawing equity
capital for up to twenty business days.
     Schwab and SCM have elected the  alternative  method of  calculation  under
paragraph  (a)(1)(ii) of the Net Capital Rule, which requires a broker-dealer to
maintain  minimum net capital equal to the greater of 2% of its "aggregate debit
items,"  computed in accordance  with the Formula for  Determination  of Reserve
Requirements  for Brokers and Dealers  under Rule  15c3-3,  or a minimum  dollar
amount,  which is based on the type of business  conducted by the broker-dealer.
The minimum  dollar  amount for both  Schwab and SCM is $1  million.  "Aggregate
debit items" are assets that have as their  source  transactions  with  clients,
primarily margin loans.  Under the alternative method of the Net Capital Rule, a
broker-dealer  may not (a) pay,  or permit  the  payment or  withdrawal  of, any
subordinated borrowings or (b) pay cash dividends or permit equity capital to be
removed if, after giving effect to such payment, withdrawal, or removal, its net
capital would be less than 5% of its aggregate debit items.
     Under NYSE Rule 326,  Schwab is required to reduce its  business if its net
capital  is less  than  4% of  aggregate  debit  items  for  more  than  fifteen
consecutive  business  days;  NYSE  Rule 326 also  prohibits  the  expansion  of
business if net capital is less than 5% of  aggregate  debit items for more than
fifteen  consecutive  business days. The provisions of NYSE Rule 326 also become
operative if capital withdrawals (including scheduled maturities of subordinated
borrowings  during the  following  six months)  would result in a reduction of a
firm's net capital to the levels indicated.
     If compliance  with  applicable net capital rules were to limit Schwab's or
SCM's  operations and their ability to repay  subordinated  debt to CSC, this in
turn could limit CSC's  ability to repay debt,  pay cash  dividends and purchase
shares of its outstanding stock. See also "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition  -  Liquidity  and  Capital
Resources - Liquidity" and note "21 - Regulatory  Requirements"  in the Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.

                                     - 13 -


Item 2. Properties

     The Company's  corporate  headquarters and its principal  executive offices
are located in leased office space,  totaling 433,000 square feet, at 120 Kearny
Street in San Francisco,  California.  These leases have  expiration  dates that
range from 2009 to 2011, and include two five-year extension options at the then
current market rates.  Schwab also leases a 28-story  building at 101 Montgomery
Street in San Francisco,  California.  The building contains 296,000 square feet
and is leased by Schwab under a term expiring in the year 2010. Schwab has three
successive  five-year  options to renew this  lease at the then  current  market
rates.  Schwab also has a lease for 412,000  square feet of office space located
at 211 Main  Street in San  Francisco  that serves as the  corporate  technology
support  center.  A portion of this lease  expires in 2010 and has one five-year
extension option at the then current market rates,  while the remaining  portion
of this lease expires in 2018 and has two  seven-year  extension  options at the
then current market rates. In addition to these  locations,  Schwab leases space
in other buildings for its San Francisco and Pleasanton  operations  aggregating
831,000 additional square feet. U.S. Trust's  headquarters are located in leased
office space,  totaling  487,000 square feet, in New York City,  New York.  This
lease  expires in 2014 and includes two ten-year  extension  options at the then
current  market rates.  SCM's  headquarters  are located in leased office space,
aggregating  122,000 square feet in Jersey City, New Jersey;  this lease expires
in 2012. In addition,  Schwab and SCM lease an additional 335,000 square feet in
Jersey City which is presently on the market to be subleased.
     A subsidiary of Schwab leases a building,  totaling  approximately  372,000
square feet,  located at 215 Fremont Street in San Francisco,  California.  Upon
the  expiration of this lease in June 2005,  the Company may renew the lease for
an additional five years subject to certain approvals and conditions, or arrange
a sale of the office  building to a third party.  The Company also has an option
to  purchase  the office  building  for $245  million at any time after June 18,
2003.  For  additional  information,  see note "22 - Commitments  and Contingent
Liabilities" in the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements in the Company's
2002 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     Substantially  all of the  Company's  branch  offices are located in leased
premises,  generally  with  lease  expiration  dates of less than ten years from
inception.  In addition,  the Company has four regional client telephone service
centers.   The  Company  owns  the  service   centers  located  in  Phoenix  and
Indianapolis,  with 330,000 and 164,000 square feet,  respectively.  The Company
also leases an  additional  128,000  square feet as part of its Phoenix  service
center.  The Company leases its service  centers  located in Denver and Orlando,
with 352,000 and 329,000 square feet, respectively.  In 2002, the Company closed
its fifth service center located in Austin and is currently  seeking to sublease
this space,  which totals  456,000 square feet. The Company owns its data center
and  administration  support center located in Phoenix and  aggregating  624,000
square feet.
     The square  footage of the above  locations are presented net of space that
has been subleased to third parties.
     While  the  corporate  headquarters  and data  centers  support  all of the
Company's  segments,  the  offices  and service  centers  primarily  support the
Individual  Investor,  Institutional  Investor,  and U.S. Trust  segments.  U.S.
Trust's  headquarters  support the U.S.  Trust  segment  and SCM's  headquarters
support the Capital Markets segment.
     In 2002 and 2001,  the Company  initiated  restructuring  initiatives  that
included a reduction in facilities.  For a discussion of such  initiatives,  see
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Results of  Operations  and Financial
Condition  -  Results  of  Operations"  and note "3 -  Restructuring  and  Other
Charges" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's 2002
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit 13.1 of this report.


Item 3. Legal Proceedings

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in  note  "22  -  Commitments  and  Contingent  Liabilities"  in  the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 2002.


Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Information   relating  to  the  executive   officers  of  the  Company  is
incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this report.

                                     - 14 -


                                     PART II


Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

     The Company's  common stock is listed on the NYSE and the Pacific  Exchange
under the ticker symbol SCH. The number of common  stockholders  of record as of
March 10, 2003 was 12,929.  The closing  market price per share on that date was
$6.85.
     The other  information  required to be  furnished  pursuant to this item is
included in "Quarterly Financial Information  (Unaudited)" in the Company's 2002
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 6. Selected Financial Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Selected  Financial and Operating  Data" in the Company's 2002 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition"  in the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     Average  balances  and interest  rates for the fourth  quarters of 2002 and
2001 are summarized as follows (dollars in millions):

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         Three Months Ended
                                                            December 31,
                                                           2002       2001
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest-Earning Assets (client-related and other):
Investments (client-related):
  Average balance outstanding                          $20,225    $16,667
  Average interest rate                                  1.61%      2.55%
Margin loans to clients:
  Average balance outstanding                          $ 6,576    $ 9,145
  Average interest rate                                  5.46%      5.85%
Private banking loans:
  Average balance outstanding                          $ 4,204    $ 3,886
  Average interest rate                                  5.50%      6.39%
Securities available for sale:
  Average balance outstanding                          $ 1,508    $ 1,245
  Average interest rate                                  4.27%      5.42%
Average yield on interest-earning assets                 3.01%      4.12%
Funding Sources (client-related and other):
Interest-bearing brokerage client cash balances:
  Average balance outstanding                          $22,926    $22,550
  Average interest rate                                   .54%      1.57%
Interest-bearing banking deposits:
  Average balance outstanding                          $ 4,046    $ 3,561
  Average interest rate                                  2.58%      2.72%
Other interest-bearing sources:
  Average balance outstanding                          $ 1,271    $   903
  Average interest rate                                  1.53%      2.55%
Average noninterest-bearing portion                    $ 4.270    $ 3,929
Average interest rate on funding sources                  .76%      1.53%
Summary:
  Average yield on interest-earning assets               3.01%      4.12%
  Average interest rate on funding sources                .76%      1.53%
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Average net interest spread                              2.25%      2.59%
================================================================================

     The decrease in interest revenue, net of interest expense,  from the fourth
quarter of 2001 to the fourth  quarter of 2002 was primarily due to lower levels
of, and lower rates received on, margin loans to clients, as well as lower rates
received on client-related investments,  partially offset by lower rates paid on
brokerage  client cash balances and higher  average  balances of  client-related
investments.


                                     - 15 -

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition - Risk  Management - Market Risk" in the Company's  2002 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in the Consolidated  Financial Statements and "Quarterly  Financial  Information
(Unaudited)"  in the  Company's  2002 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
          Financial Disclosure

     None.


                                    PART III


Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  information  relating  to  directors  of the  Company  required  to be
furnished  pursuant to this item is  incorporated  by reference from portions of
the Company's  definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders
to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A by April 30, 2003 (the Proxy
Statement) under "The Board of Directors" and "Other Information - Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  following  table  provides  certain  information  about  each  of  the
Company's current executive  officers.  Other information  relating to executive
officers  required  to be  furnished  pursuant to this item is  incorporated  by
reference from portions of the Proxy  Statement  under "Appendix A - Description
of Charles R. Schwab's  Employment  and License  Agreements,"  and "Appendix H -
Description of Lon Gorman's Employment Agreement."


                                     - 16 -

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION




================================================================================
                      Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Name             Age                  Title
     ----             ---                  -----

Charles R. Schwab     65   Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer, and Director

David S. Pottruck     54   President, Co-Chief Executive Officer, and Director

William L. Atwell     52   Executive Vice President - Institutional,
                           International, and Banking

Jody L. Bilney        41   Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer

John Philip Coghlan   51   Vice Chairman, President - Schwab Individual Investor

Christopher V. Dodds  43   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Lon Gorman            54   Vice Chairman, President - Schwab Capital Markets/
                           Asset Management Products and Services

Daniel O. Leemon      49   Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer

Dawn G. Lepore        48   Vice Chairman - Technology, Operations, and
                           Administration

Mary S. McLeod        47   Executive Vice President - Human Resources

Geoffrey J. Penney    57   Executive Vice President and Chief Information
                           Officer

Alan J. Weber         54   Executive Vice President of The Charles Schwab
                           Corporation, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                           of U.S. Trust Corporation
================================================================================

     Mr. Schwab has been Co-Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company since 1998,
and  Chairman  and a director of the Company  since its  incorporation  in 1986.
Effective  May 9, 2003,  Mr.  Schwab will become  Chairman and director and will
cease serving as Co-Chief  Executive  Officer.  Mr.  Schwab was Chief  Executive
Officer of the Company from 1986 to 1997.  Mr. Schwab was a founder of Schwab in
1971 and has been its Chairman since 1978. Mr. Schwab is currently a director of
USTC and its principal  subsidiary,  U.S. Trust NY; Gap, Inc.;  Siebel  Systems,
Inc., a company that provides  support for software  systems;  and Xign, Inc., a
developer of electronic  payment systems using digitally signed electronic check
technology.  Mr. Schwab is also a trustee of The Charles Schwab Family of Funds,
Schwab  Investments,  Schwab  Capital Trust and Schwab Annuity  Portfolios,  all
registered investment companies.

     Mr. Pottruck has been Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Company since 1998,
a director of the Company  since 1994,  and President of the Company since 1992.
Mr.  Pottruck's  appointment  as the sole Chief  Executive  Officer  will become
effective  on May 9,  2003.  Mr.  Pottruck  was Chief  Operating  Officer of the
Company from 1994 to 1998. Mr.  Pottruck  joined Schwab in 1984. Mr. Pottruck is
currently a director of USTC;  U.S.  Trust NY; the Nasdaq  Stock  Market;  Intel
Corporation,  a maker of  microcomputer  components  and related  products;  and
DoveBid, Inc., a provider of online business-to-business  capital asset auctions
and valuation services.


                                     - 17 -

     Mr. Atwell has been Executive Vice President - Institutional, International
and  Banking of the  Company  and  Schwab  since  June 2002 and  Executive  Vice
President - International  and Banking of Schwab from February 2002 to May 2002.
Mr. Atwell was Executive Vice President -  International  of Schwab from 2000 to
January 2002.  Prior to joining  Schwab,  Mr. Atwell was Senior Vice President -
National Sales and Delivery Network for CIGNA Healthcare from 1996 to 2000.

     Ms. Bilney has been Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of
the Company and Schwab since July 2002. Prior to joining Schwab,  Ms. Bilney was
Senior Vice President - Brand Management and Marketing  Communications from 2001
to 2002,  President - Consumer Markets Group from 2000 to 2001, Vice President -
Consumer  Markets  Group from 1999 to 2000,  Vice  President - General  Manager,
Consumer  Sales from 1997 to 1999,  and Vice  President - Marketing from 1996 to
1997 for Verizon Communications, a provider of telecommunication services.

     Mr.  Coghlan has been Vice  Chairman of the Company and Schwab  since 1999,
President -  Individual  Investor of Schwab since July 2002 and  Executive  Vice
President of the Company  since 1992.  Mr.  Coghlan was  Enterprise  President -
Schwab  Institutional  of Schwab from March 2001 to July 2002.  Mr.  Coghlan was
Enterprise  President - Services for Investment  Managers of Schwab from 1998 to
March 2001 and  Enterprise  President - Retirement  Plan Services of Schwab from
1997 to March 2001.  Mr.  Coghlan was  Executive  Vice  President  of Schwab and
General  Manager of Schwab  Institutional  from 1992 to 1997. Mr. Coghlan joined
Schwab in 1986.

     Mr. Dodds has been Chief Financial  Officer of the Company and Schwab since
1999 and  Executive  Vice  President of the Company and Schwab  since 1998.  Mr.
Dodds  was  Corporate  Controller  of  Schwab  from  1997 to 1999 and  Corporate
Treasurer of Schwab from 1993 to 1997. Mr. Dodds joined Schwab in 1986.

     Mr.  Gorman has been Vice  Chairman of the  Company and Schwab  since 1999,
President  -  Asset  Management  Products  and  Services  since  February  2002,
Enterprise  President  - Schwab  Capital  Markets of Schwab and  Executive  Vice
President of the Company since 1997.  Mr. Gorman was Executive  Vice President -
Schwab  Capital  Markets of the Company and Schwab from 1996 to 1997. Mr. Gorman
joined Schwab in 1996.

     Mr. Leemon has been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy  Officer of
the Company and Schwab since 1995.  Mr. Leemon joined Schwab in 1995. Mr. Leemon
is  currently a director of  LiveCapital,  a provider of online  small  business
financing.

     Ms.  Lepore  has  been  Vice  Chairman  -   Technology,   Operations,   and
Administration  of the  Company and Schwab  since July 2002 and Vice  Chairman -
Technology  and  Administration  of the Company and Schwab from  October 2001 to
July 2002.  Ms.  Lepore was Vice Chairman and Chief  Information  Officer of the
Company and Schwab from 1999 to October 2001 and  Executive  Vice  President and
Chief  Information  Officer of the  Company  and Schwab  from 1993 to 1999.  Ms.
Lepore  joined  Schwab in 1983.  Ms.  Lepore is currently a director of Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. and eBay Inc.

     Ms.  McLeod has been  Executive  Vice  President - Human  Resources  of the
Company  and Schwab  since  2001.  Ms.  McLeod was  appointed  to the  Company's
Executive  Committee  effective  January 1, 2003.  Prior to joining Schwab,  Ms.
McLeod was Vice President of Human  Resources for the Global Sales  Organization
of Cisco Systems from 2000 to 2001 and Senior Vice President of Human  Resources
for Hallmark Cards from 1997 to 2000.

     Mr. Penney has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information  Officer
of the Company and Schwab since 2001.  Mr. Penney was appointed to the Company's
Executive  Committee  effective  January 1, 2003.  Mr. Penney was Executive Vice
President - Schwab  Technology  of Schwab from 1998 to 2001.  Mr.  Penney joined
Schwab in 1997 as Senior Vice President of Financial  Products and International
Technology of Schwab. Mr. Penney is currently a director of Keynote Systems,  an
internet performance management company.

     Mr. Weber has been Executive Vice President of the Company, Chief Executive
Officer of USTC and U.S.  Trust NY, and a director of USTC since  October  2002.
Mr.  Weber was  appointed  Chairman  of USTC as of January  31,  2003.  Prior to
joining USTC, Mr. Weber was Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer for Aetna,
Inc. from 1998 to 2001 and Chairman of Citibank International from 1994 to 1998.


                                     - 18 -


Item 11. Executive Compensation

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated   by  reference  from  portions  of  the  Proxy   Statement   under
"Compensation  Committee  Interlocks  and  Insider   Participation,"   "Director
Compensation,"   "Summary   Compensation   Table,"  "Option  Grants,"   "Options
Exercised,"  "Pension  Plan  Table,"  "Compensation  Committee  Report,"  "Other
Information - Certain  Transactions,"  "Appendix A -  Description  of Charles R.
Schwab's  Employment  and License  Agreements,"  "Appendix B - Description of H.
Marshall  Schwarz's  Separation  and Employment  Agreements,"  and "Appendix C -
Description of Jeffrey S. Maurer's  Separation and Employment  Agreements,"  and
"Appendix H - Description of Lon Gorman's Employment Agreement."


Item 12.  Security  Ownership of Certain  Beneficial  Owners and  Management and
          Related Stockholder Matters

     The information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management required to be furnished pursuant to this item is incorporated by
reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under "Principal Stockholders."

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

     The following  table  summarizes  information  as of December 31, 2002 with
respect to equity  compensation  plans approved and not approved by stockholders
(shares in millions):

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     (C)
                             (A)                (B)            Shares Available
                    Shares to be Issued   Weighted-Average   for Future Issuance
                      Upon Exercise of    Exercise Price of  (Excluding Shares
Plan Category       Outstanding Options  Outstanding Options     in Column A)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity compensation
   plans approved by
   stockholders           109 (1)             $14.37                 38
Equity compensation
   plans not approved
   by stockholders         47 (2)             $17.76                  3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                     156                 $15.38                 41 (3)
================================================================================
(1)  Represents  shares of common stock  issuable upon  exercise of  outstanding
     options under CSC's 1987 Stock Option Plan,  1987  Executive  Officer Stock
     Option  Plan,  and the 1992 and  2001  Stock  Incentive  Plans,  which  are
     generally  used for grants to officers and  directors.  Although  stock and
     stock-based  awards are still  outstanding under the 1987 Stock Option Plan
     and 1987  Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan, no new shares are available
     under these plans for future grants.
(2)  Represents  shares of common stock  issuable upon  exercise of  outstanding
     options under CSC's Employee Stock Incentive  Plan.  Grants under this plan
     are used for employees  other than officers and directors and  accordingly,
     did not require stockholders'  approval. The material features of this plan
     are described in note "17 - Employee  Incentive  and Deferred  Compensation
     Plans" in the Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements in the Company's
     2002  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein  by
     reference  to  Exhibit  No.  13.1  of this  report.  This  narrative  is an
     abbreviated  description of the plan. For a complete  description,  see the
     plan  document  that is Exhibit  10.226 which was filed with the  Company's
     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001 and incorporated  herein
     by reference.
(3)  In addition to options, restricted shares may be granted under the 1992 and
     2001 Stock  Incentive  Plans and the Employee  Stock  Incentive  Plan,  and
     performance-based  shares  may be  granted  under  the 1992 and 2001  Stock
     Incentive Plans.


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by reference  from a portion of the Proxy  Statement  under "Other
Information - Certain Transactions."


                                     - 19 -


Item 14. Controls and Procedures

     An  evaluation   was  performed   under  the   supervision   and  with  the
participation  of the Company's  management,  including  the Co-Chief  Executive
Officers and Chief Financial  Officer,  of the  effectiveness  of the design and
operation of the Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures  within 90 days
before the filing  date of this annual  report.  Based on that  evaluation,  the
Company's  management,  including  the  Co-Chief  Executive  Officers  and Chief
Financial  Officer,   concluded  that  the  Company's  disclosure  controls  and
procedures  were  effective.  There  have  been no  significant  changes  in the
Company's internal controls or in other factors that could significantly  affect
internal controls subsequent to their evaluation.


                                     PART IV


Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a) Documents filed as part of this Report

     1. Financial Statements

     The financial  statements and independent  auditors' report are included in
the Company's 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein
by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report and are listed below:

         Consolidated Statement of Income
         Consolidated Balance Sheet
         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
         Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         Independent Auditors' Report

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

     The financial statement schedules required to be furnished pursuant to this
item are listed in the accompanying index appearing on page F-1.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

     On November 12, 2002,  the  Registrant  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K
which included certifications executed by the Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief
Executive Officer,  President and Co-Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in accordance with 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350
(as adopted by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002).


                                     - 20 -


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



     (c) Exhibits

     The exhibits  listed below are filed as part of this annual  report on Form
10-K.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Exhibit
Number                       Exhibit
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.3       The  Charles  Schwab   Corporation   Medium-Term  Notes   Distribution
          Agreement filed as Exhibit 1.3 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended June 30, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.

2.1       Agreement  and Plan of Merger  dated as of January  12,  2000,  by and
          among The Charles Schwab  Corporation,  Patriot Merger Corporation and
          U.S. Trust Corporation,  filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Form
          8-K dated January 12, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.

3.9       Second  Restated  Bylaws,  as amended on September  22,  1998,  of the
          Registrant  (supersedes  Exhibit  3.8)  filed  as  Exhibit  3.9 to the
          Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September 30, 1998 and
          incorporated herein by reference.

3.10      Fourth Restated Certificate of Incorporation, effective July 30, 1999,
          of the  Registrant,  which  includes  amendments  through May 20, 1999
          (supersedes  Exhibit 3.7),  filed as Exhibit 3.10 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September  30, 1999 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.

3.11      Fifth Restated Certificate of Incorporation, effective May 7, 2001, of
          the Registrant (supersedes Exhibit 3.10), filed as Exhibit 3.11 to the
          Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September 30, 2001 and
          incorporated herein by reference.

4.2       Neither  the  Registrant  nor  its  subsidiaries  are  parties  to any
          instrument  with  respect  to  long-term  debt  for  which  securities
          authorized thereunder exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant
          and its  subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis.  Copies of instruments
          with respect to long-term  debt of lesser  amounts will be provided to
          the SEC upon request.

10.4      Form of  Release  Agreement  dated as of March  31,  1987  among  BAC,
          Registrant,  Schwab  Holdings,  Inc.,  Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc. and
          former shareholders of Schwab Holdings, Inc.                         *

10.57     Registration Rights and Stock Restriction Agreement, dated as of March
          31, 1987,  between the Registrant and the holders of the Common Stock,
          filed as  Exhibit  4.23 to  Registrant's  Registration  Statement  No.
          33-16192 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.72     Restatement  of Assignment and License,  as amended  January 25, 1988,
          among  Charles  Schwab  &  Co.,  Inc.,   Charles  R.  Schwab  and  the
          Registrant,  filed as Exhibit 10.72 to the Registrant's  Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.87     Trust  Agreement  under the Charles Schwab Profit Sharing and Employee
          Stock Ownership Plan,  effective  November 1, 1990,  dated October 25,
          1990,  filed as Exhibit  10.87 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended September 30, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.
                                                                               +

                                     - 21 -


10.101    First Amendment to the Trust Agreement under the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  effective January 1, 1992,
          dated December 20, 1991,  filed as Exhibit 10.101 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

10.116    Second  Amendment to the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan  effective  July 1, 1992,
          dated June 30, 1992, filed as Exhibit 10.116 to the Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 2002 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

10.138    Form  of  Nonstatutory   Stock  Option   Agreement  for   Non-Employee
          Directors,  filed  as  Exhibit  4.4 to the  Registrant's  Registration
          Statement  No.  33-47842  on  Form  S-8  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

10.140    Form of  Restricted  Shares  Agreement,  filed as  Exhibit  4.6 to the
          Registrant's  Registration  Statement  No.  33-54701  on Form  S-8 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.149    Employment Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 between the Registrant
          and Charles R.  Schwab,  filed as Exhibit  10.149 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

10.169    Third  Amendment to the Trust  Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock  Ownership Plan effective  January 1, 1996,
          dated May 8, 1996 filed as  Exhibit  10.169 to the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 2002 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

10.191    Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.171).   +

10.192    Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.172).   +

10.200    Form of Indemnification  Agreement entered into between Registrant and
          members of the Board of Directors of  Registrant  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.34),  filed as Exhibit 10.200 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.202    Fourth  Amendment to the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock  Ownership Plan effective  January 1, 1998,
          filed as  Exhibit  10.202 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

10.212    The Charles Schwab Corporation Corporate Executive Bonus Plan, amended
          and restated as of January 1, 2000 (supersedes Exhibit 10.182),  filed
          as Exhibit 10.212 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          March 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.                 +

10.215    The Charles Schwab Corporation  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan,
          restated to include  amendments  through December 13, 2000 (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.209), filed as Exhibit 10.215 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  2000 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +


                                     - 22 -


10.217    Executive  Employment  Agreement  and  Covenants Not to Compete for H.
          Marshall  Schwarz,  filed as Exhibit 10.217 to the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

10.218    Executive Employment Agreement and Covenant Not To Compete for Jeffrey
          S. Maurer,  filed as Exhibit 10.218 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for
          the quarter ended March 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.
                                                                               +

10.220    The Charles Schwab Corporation Annual Executive Individual Performance
          Plan,  as amended  and  restated,  approved  at the Annual  Meeting of
          Stockholders  on May 7, 2001  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.211),  filed as
          Exhibit  10.220 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          June 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.                  +

10.221    The SchwabPlan  Retirement  Savings and Investment Plan,  restated and
          amended  as of April 1, 2001  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.216),  filed as
          Exhibit  10.221 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          June 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.                  +

10.222    The Charles Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan,  restated and
          amended as of September  20, 2001,  with form of  Non-Qualified  Stock
          Option  Agreement  attached  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.186),  filed  as
          Exhibit  10.222 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.             +

10.223    The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan
          (1987),  restated and amended as of September  20, 2001,  with form of
          Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement  attached  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.188), filed as Exhibit 10.223 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.
                                                                               +

10.224    The Charles Schwab Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, restated and
          amended as of September 20, 2001 (supersedes Exhibit 10.214), filed as
          Exhibit  10.224 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.             +

10.225    The Charles Schwab Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, restated and
          amended as of September 20, 2001 (supersedes Exhibit 10.219), filed as
          Exhibit  10.225 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.             +

10.226    The Charles Schwab Corporation Employee Stock Incentive Plan, restated
          and amended as of  September  20, 2001  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.190),
          filed as Exhibit 10.226 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.       +

10.227    Benefit Equalization Plan of U.S. Trust Corporation,  filed as Exhibit
          10.227 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
          30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.                       +


                                     - 23 -


10.228    1990 Change in Control and  Severance  Policy for Top Tier Officers of
          United  States  Trust  Company of New York and  Affiliated  Companies,
          filed as Exhibit 10.228 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.       +

10.231    1989  Stock  Compensation  Plan and  Predecessor  Plans of U.S.  Trust
          Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.231 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for
          the  quarter  ended  September  30,  2001 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

10.234    Executive  Deferred  Compensation Plan of U.S. Trust  Corporation,  as
          amended  and  restated  effective  as of January  1, 2001  (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.229), filed as Exhibit 10.234 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  2001 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

10.235    Executive  Incentive  Plan of U.S. Trust  Corporation,  as amended and
          restated effective as of January 1, 2001 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.230),
          filed as  Exhibit  10.235 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

10.236    U.S. Trust Corporation  401(k) Plan, as amended and restated effective
          as of January 1, 2001 (supersedes  Exhibit  10.233),  filed as Exhibit
          10.236 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          2001 and incorporated herein by reference.                           +

10.237    U.S.  Trust  Corporation  Employees'  Retirement  Plan, as amended and
          restated effective as of January 1, 2001 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.232),
          filed as  Exhibit  10.237 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

10.238    Credit  Agreement  (364-Day  Commitment)  dated  as of June  22,  2001
          between the Registrant and the financial  institutions  listed therein
          (supersedes Exhibit 10.198 and 10.206), filed as Exhibit 10.238 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  2001 and
          incorporated herein by reference.

10.239    The Charles Schwab Corporation Annual Executive Individual Performance
          Plan, restated to include amendments approved at the Annual Meeting of
          Stockholders on May 13, 2002  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.220),  filed as
          Exhibit  10.239 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          June 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.                  +

10.240    The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation   Corporate  Executive  Bonus  Plan,
          restated  to include  amendments  approved  at the  Annual  Meeting of
          Stockholders on May 13, 2002  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.212),  filed as
          Exhibit  10.240 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          June 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.                  +

10.241    Credit  Agreement  (364-Day  Commitment)  dated  as of June  21,  2002
          between the Registrant and the financial  institutions  listed therein
          (supersedes   Exhibit   10.238),   filed  as  Exhibit  10.241  to  the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  2002 and
          incorporated herein by reference.


                                     - 24 -


10.242    The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan,  amended and
          restated as of September 25, 2002,  with form of  Non-Qualified  Stock
          Option  Agreement  attached  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.222),  filed  as
          Exhibit  10.242 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          September 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.             +

10.243    The Charles Schwab  Corporation  1987  Executive  Officer Stock Option
          Plan,  amended and  restated as of September  25,  2002,  with form of
          Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement  attached  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.223), filed as Exhibit 10.243 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended September 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.
                                                                               +

10.244    The Charles Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, amended and
          restated as of September 25, 2002 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.224),  filed
          as Exhibit 10.244 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          September 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.             +

10.245    The Charles Schwab  Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, amended and
          restated as of September 25, 2002 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.225),  filed
          as Exhibit 10.245 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          September 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.             +

10.246    Executive  Employment  Agreement  by  and  among  The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation,   Schwab  Capital  Markets  L.P.,  and  Lon  Gorman,  and
          Supplemental  Agreement  thereto,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.246  to  the
          Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September 30, 2002 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.247    The Charles Schwab Severence Pay Plan,  restated as of August 1, 2002,
          filed as Exhibit 10.247 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.       +

10.248    The Charles Schwab Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan,  restated to
          include  amendments  through  October  23, 2002  (supersedes  Exhibits
          10.225 and 10.245).                                                  +

10.249    Separation  Agreement  by and  between  H.  Marshall  Schwarz  and The
          Charles Schwab Corporation.                                          +

10.250    Separation  Agreement by and between Jeffrey S. Maurer and The Charles
          Schwab Corporation.                                                  +

12.1      Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.1      Portions  of The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  2002  Annual  Report to
          Stockholders, which have been incorporated herein by reference. Except
          for such  portions,  such  annual  report is not  deemed to be "filed"
          herewith.

21.1      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1      Independent Auditors' Consent.

*         Incorporated  by  reference  to the  identically-numbered  exhibit  to
          Registrant's  Registration  Statement  No.  33-16192  on Form S-1,  as
          amended and declared effective on September 22, 1987.

+         Management contract or compensatory plan.

                                     - 25 -

<PAGE>

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION


                                   SIGNATURES
          Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 21, 2003.

                                     THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                                                 (Registrant)

                                     BY:    /s/ Charles R. Schwab
                                            -------------------------
                                            Charles R. Schwab
                                            Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer
                                              and Director

          Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated, on March 21, 2003.

   Signature / Title                               Signature / Title
   -----------------                               -----------------

/s/ Charles R. Schwab                            /s/ David S. Pottruck
------------------------                         -------------------------
Charles R. Schwab,                               David S. Pottruck,
Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer             President, Co-Chief Executive
  and Director                                     Officer and Director
  (principal executive officer)                    (principal executive officer)


/s/ Christopher V. Dodds
-------------------------
Christopher V. Dodds,
Executive Vice President
  and Chief Financial Officer
  (principal financial and accounting officer)


/s/ Nancy H. Bechtle                             /s/ C. Preston Butcher
-------------------------                        -------------------------
Nancy H. Bechtle, Director                       C. Preston Butcher, Director



-------------------------                        -------------------------
Donald G. Fisher, Director                       Anthony M. Frank, Director


/s/ Frank C. Herringer                           /s/ Stephen T. McLin
-------------------------                        -------------------------
Frank C. Herringer, Director                     Stephen T. McLin, Director


/s/ Arun Sarin                                   /s/ George P. Shultz
-------------------------                        -------------------------
Arun Sarin, Director                             George P. Shultz, Director


/s/ Paula A. Sneed                               /s/ Roger O. Walther
-------------------------                        -------------------------
Paula A. Sneed, Director                         Roger O. Walther, Director


                                     - 26 -
<PAGE>

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                                  CERTIFICATION


I, Charles R. Schwab, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this  annual  report on Form 10-K of The  Charles  Schwab
     Corporation;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

     a)   designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to ensure  that
          material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
          consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
          entities,  particularly  during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b)   evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the Evaluation Date); and

     c)   presented   in  this   annual   report  our   conclusions   about  the
          effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of  registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the
     equivalent function):

     a)   all  significant  deficiencies  in the design or operation of internal
          controls  which could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record,  process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
          identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual  report  whether or not there were  significant  changes in internal
     controls  or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal
     controls  subsequent to the date of our most recent  evaluation,  including
     any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
     weaknesses.




Date: March 21, 2003       /s/ Charles R. Schwab
     ----------------      ----------------------------------

                           Charles R. Schwab
                           Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer


                                     - 27 -

<PAGE>

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                                  CERTIFICATION


I, David S. Pottruck, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this  annual  report on Form 10-K of The  Charles  Schwab
     Corporation;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

     a)   designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to ensure  that
          material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
          consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
          entities,  particularly  during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b)   evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the Evaluation Date); and

     c)   presented   in  this   annual   report  our   conclusions   about  the
          effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of  registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the
     equivalent function):

     a)   all  significant  deficiencies  in the design or operation of internal
          controls  which could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record,  process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
          identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual  report  whether or not there were  significant  changes in internal
     controls  or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal
     controls  subsequent to the date of our most recent  evaluation,  including
     any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
     weaknesses.




Date: March 21, 2003       /s/ David S. Pottruck
     ----------------      ----------------------------------
                           David S. Pottruck
                           President and Co-Chief Executive Officer


                                     - 28 -

<PAGE>

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                                  CERTIFICATION


I, Christopher V. Dodds, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this  annual  report on Form 10-K of The  Charles  Schwab
     Corporation;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

     a)   designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to ensure  that
          material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
          consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
          entities,  particularly  during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b)   evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the Evaluation Date); and

     c)   presented   in  this   annual   report  our   conclusions   about  the
          effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of  registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the
     equivalent function):

     a)   all  significant  deficiencies  in the design or operation of internal
          controls  which could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record,  process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
          identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual  report  whether or not there were  significant  changes in internal
     controls  or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal
     controls  subsequent to the date of our most recent  evaluation,  including
     any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
     weaknesses.




Date: March 21, 2003       /s/ Christopher V. Dodds
     ----------------      ----------------------------------

                           Christopher V. Dodds
                           Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


                                     - 29 -



<PAGE>



                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                     Index to Financial Statement Schedules


                                                                        Page
                                                                        ----


Independent Auditors' Report                                            F-2

Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant:
                Condensed Balance Sheet                                 F-3
                Condensed Statement of Income                           F-4
                Condensed Statement of Cash Flows                       F-5
                Notes to Condensed Financial Information             F-6 - F-8

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                         F-9

U.S. Trust Corporation Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)      F-10 - F-16



Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the conditions  under
which they are required or because the  information is included in the Company's
consolidated  financial statements and notes in the Company's 2002 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


                                      F-1

<PAGE>


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION


INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS'  REPORT




To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
   The Charles Schwab Corporation:



We have audited the  consolidated  financial  statements  of The Charles  Schwab
Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and
for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31,  2002,  and have
issued our report  thereon dated  February 24, 2003 (which  report  expresses an
unqualified  opinion  and  includes  an  explanatory  paragraph  relating  to an
accounting  change);  such  consolidated  financial  statements  and  report are
included in your 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders and are incorporated  herein
by  reference.  Our audits  also  included  the  financial  statement  schedules
(Schedules  I and II) of the Company on pages F-3 through F-9.  These  financial
statement  schedules are the  responsibility  of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion  based on our audits.  In our  opinion,
such financial  statement  schedules,  when  considered in relation to the basic
consolidated  financial  statements  taken as a  whole,  present  fairly  in all
material respects the information set forth therein.



/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
-------------------------
San Francisco, California
February 24, 2003


                                      F-2

<PAGE>
                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                             Condensed Balance Sheet
                                  (In millions)

December 31,                                               2002           2001
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents                               $ 1,079        $ 1,197
Securities owned - at market value                                          11
Advances to subsidiaries                                    339            324
Investments in subsidiaries, at equity                    3,316          3,550
Other assets                                                105             48
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                   $ 4,839        $ 5,130
================================================================================

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Drafts payable                                                         $   100
Accrued expenses and other liabilities                  $   212            188
Intercompany borrowings                                      24
Long-term debt                                              592            679
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total liabilities                                           828            967

Stockholders' equity                                      4,011          4,163
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                   $ 4,839        $ 5,130
================================================================================

See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.

                                      F-3

                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                          Condensed Statement of Income
                                  (In millions)

Year Ended December 31,                                  2002    2001     2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interest revenue                                         $ 41    $ 73     $120
Interest expense                                          (41)    (53)     (51)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net interest revenue                                               20       69

Other revenues (losses)                                    (2)     12       (5)
Restructuring expense                                     (29)    (30)
Other gains (expenses)                                      5       7      (28)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Income (loss) before income tax benefit (expense)
   and equity in earnings of subsidiaries                 (26)      9       36

Income tax benefit (expense)                               11      (1)     (20)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Income (loss) before equity in earnings of subsidiaries   (15)      8       16

Equity in earnings of subsidiaries:
   Equity in undistributed earnings / (distributions
      in excess of earnings) of subsidiaries             (325)   (529)     516
   Dividends paid by subsidiaries                         437     599      186
   Equity in extraordinary item of subsidiary              12     121
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                                  124     191      702

Net income                                               $109    $199     $718
================================================================================

See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.

                                      F-4


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                        Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
                                  (In millions)

Year Ended December 31,                                2002     2001      2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net income                                           $  109   $  199    $  718
 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
  provided by operating activities:
  Distributions in excess of earnings/(equity in
   undistributed earnings) of subsidiaries              325      529      (516)
  Equity gain in extraordinary item of subsidiary       (12)    (121)
  Net gain on sale of an investment                              (26)
  Other                                                   2       10
Net change in:
 Other assets                                           (32)      (6)       (3)
 Drafts payable                                        (100)    (100)
 Accrued expenses and other liabilities                   6        9        26
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities               298      494       225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Purchases of securities available for sale                        (6)      (10)
Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale     11
Decrease in net advances to subsidiaries                 37      384       545
Increase in investments in subsidiaries                 (51)    (111)     (436)
Cash payments for business combinations and
 investments, net of cash received                        1      (13)      (29)
Proceeds from sale of an investment                               49
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities     (2)     303        70
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Proceeds from intercompany borrowings                    24
Proceeds from long-term debt                                               311
Repayment of long-term debt                            (113)     (39)      (48)
Dividends paid                                          (60)     (61)      (62)
Purchase of treasury stock                             (299)    (368)
Proceeds from stock options exercised and other          34       30        85
Proceeds from issuance of stock to ESOP                                     25
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities   (414)    (438)      311
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents       (118)     359       606
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year        1,197      838       232
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year             $1,079   $1,197    $  838
================================================================================

See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.


                                      F-5

                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         The Charles Schwab Corporation
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                    Notes to Condensed Financial Information



1.   Introduction and Basis of Presentation

     The condensed financial information of The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC)
     should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of
     The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation  and  its   majority-owned   subsidiaries
     (collectively referred to as the Company) and notes thereto included in the
     Company's 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which is incorporated herein
     by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

     On May 31, 2000,  CSC  completed  its merger (the  Merger) with U.S.  Trust
     Corporation  (USTC). The condensed financial  statements,  included in this
     Annual Report on Form 10-K, give  retroactive  effect to the Merger,  which
     was accounted for as a pooling of interests in the  consolidated  financial
     statements.  The pooling of  interests  method of  accounting  requires the
     restatement of all periods  presented as if CSC and USTC had been operating
     as a combined entity during such periods.

2.   Supplemental Cash Flow Information

     During 2000, CSC recorded a non-cash capital contribution of $19 million to
     its  subsidiary,   Charles  Schwab  &  Co.,  Inc.  (Schwab),   through  the
     contribution  of net assets.  Also  during  2000,  CSC  recorded a non-cash
     return of  capital  of $82  million  from  Schwab  and a  non-cash  capital
     contribution of $82 million to USTC in connection with Schwab's purchase of
     rights to software from USTC.

     Certain of CSC's  subsidiaries  have  remitted the tax benefits  from stock
     options exercised and other stock-based compensation of $4 million in 2002,
     $37 million in 2001 and $178 million in 2000 to CSC.

     Certain information affecting the cash flows of CSC follows (in millions):

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Year Ended December 31,                       2002       2001        2000
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income taxes paid (refunded)                  $(21)      $ 12        $ 10
     ===========================================================================
     Interest paid:
         Long-term debt                            $ 49       $ 52        $ 41
         Other                                        1          2           1
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total interest paid                           $ 50       $ 54        $ 42
     ===========================================================================

     Non-cash investing and financing activities:
         Common stock and options issued for
         purchases of businesses                   $  4       $ 71        $529
     ===========================================================================

3.   Long-term Debt

     Long-term debt consists of Senior Medium-Term Notes,  Series A (Medium-Term
     Notes).  At December 31, 2002,  CSC had $566  million  aggregate  principal
     amount of Medium-Term Notes  outstanding with maturities  ranging from 2003
     to 2010 and fixed interest  rates ranging from 6.04% to 8.05%.  At December
     31, 2002, the Medium-Term Notes carried a weighted-average interest rate of
     7.29%.  During 2002, CSC entered into interest rate swap agreements (Swaps)
     with  an  aggregate   notional   principal  amount  of  $293  million  that
     effectively  convert the interest rate  characteristics of a like amount of
     its  Medium-Term  Notes from fixed to variable.  These Swaps are structured
     for CSC to receive a fixed  rate of  interest  and pay a  variable  rate of
     interest based on the three-month LIBOR rate. At December 31, 2002, the net
     effect of the Swaps converted the hedged portion of the  Medium-Term  Notes
     from a weighted-average  fixed interest rate of 7.57% to a weighted-average
     variable  interest rate of 3.87%.  These Swaps have been designated as fair
     value hedges under Statement of Financial

                                      F-6

     Accounting  Standards No. 133 - Accounting for Derivative  Instruments  and
     Hedging  Activities,  and are  recorded  on the  condensed  balance  sheet.
     Changes in fair value of the Swaps are completely offset by changes in fair
     value of the hedged Medium-Term Notes. At December 31, 2002, CSC recorded a
     derivative asset of $26 million for these Swaps. Concurrently, the carrying
     value of the Medium-Term Notes was increased by $26 million.

     At December 31, 2001, CSC had $679 million  aggregate  principal  amount of
     Medium-Term Notes outstanding with maturities ranging from 2002 to 2010 and
     fixed interest rates ranging from 6.04% to 8.05%. At December 31, 2001, the
     Medium-Term Notes carried a weighted-average interest rate of 7.27%.

     Annual maturities on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2002 are as
     follows (in millions):

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     2003                                                               $  100
     2004                                                                   81
     2005                                                                   56
     2006                                                                   68
     2007                                                                   38
     Thereafter                                                            223
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total maturities                                                      566
     Fair value adjustment                                                  26
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                                                              $  592
     ===========================================================================

4.   Related Party Transactions

     At December 31, 2002,  receivables  from  affiliates,  which is included in
     advances to subsidiaries, was $8 million. At December 31, 2002, payables to
     affiliates,  which is included in accrued  expenses and other  liabilities,
     was $44  million  and is payable on demand and bears  interest  at variable
     rates (1.4% at December 31, 2002).

     CSC provides  subordinated  revolving  credit  facilities and other lending
     arrangements to certain of its subsidiaries, including Schwab, USTC, Schwab
     Capital  Markets L.P.  (SCM) and Charles  Schwab Europe  (CSE).  The amount
     outstanding under these facilities and arrangements totaled $331 million at
     December 31, 2002.

     Schwab has a $1.4 billion  subordinated  revolving credit facility which is
     scheduled to expire in September  2003. The amount  outstanding  under this
     facility was $220 million at both  December 31, 2002 and 2001.  At year end
     2002,  Schwab also had outstanding  $25 million in fixed-rate  subordinated
     term loans from CSC maturing in 2004. The outstanding balance of these term
     loans was $25 million at year end 2001.

     USTC has a $300 million  short-term  credit  facility  maturing in December
     2003.  The amount  outstanding  under this facility was $35 million and $30
     million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     SCM has a $150 million  subordinated  lending arrangement with CSC which is
     scheduled to expire in August 2003. This subordinated  lending  arrangement
     was $70 million at the end of 2001.  In  addition,  CSC provides SCM with a
     $50 million short-term credit facility.  The total amount outstanding under
     these facilities at December 31, 2002 was $50 million.  No funds were drawn
     under either of these facilities at December 31, 2001.

                                      F-7

     CSE  has  a  (pound  sterling)50   million,   equivalent  to  $81  million,
     subordinated  lending  arrangement  maturing in 2006, which was not used at
     December 31,  2002.  At December  31,  2001,  CSE had a (pound  sterling)50
     million, equivalent to $73 million, subordinated lending arrangement, which
     was not used as of that date.

     CSC  also   provides   other  lending   arrangements   to  certain  of  its
     subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2002, the total amount  provided under these
     lending  arrangements was $28 million,  of which $1 million was outstanding
     and matures in 2003.  These lending  arrangements  totaled $48 million,  of
     which $22 million was outstanding at December 31, 2001.

     Interest earned by CSC from these subordinated  revolving credit facilities
     and other lending  arrangements totaled $20 million in 2002, $42 million in
     2001 and $90 million in 2000.

     In 2002, two of CSC's subsidiaries  established revolving credit facilities
     for CSC which are scheduled to expire in 2005.  The total amount  available
     to CSC under these  borrowing  arrangements  was $28 million,  of which $24
     million was outstanding at December 31, 2002.

5.   Commitments and Guarantees

     During 2001, a subsidiary of CSC began  occupying and making lease payments
     on a newly  renovated  office  building in San Francisco,  California.  The
     lease for the  building  was  arranged by working  with a bank to create an
     unconsolidated  special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust, through an agent,
     raised the $245  million  needed to acquire and  renovate  the  building by
     issuing  long-term  debt ($235  million)  and raising  equity  capital ($10
     million).   The  subsidiary's   lease  payments  to  the  Trust  vary  with
     fluctuations  in interest rates and are structured to cover the interest on
     the debt  obligations and a specified  return on the equity (defined in the
     Trust  Agreement as 1.75% above the one-month  LIBOR rate).  This financing
     arrangement is known as a synthetic lease. Upon the expiration of the lease
     in June 2005,  the  subsidiary  may renew the lease for an additional  five
     years subject to certain approvals and conditions, or arrange a sale of the
     office  building to a third  party.  The  subsidiary  also has an option to
     purchase  the office  building  for $245 million at any time after June 18,
     2003.  CSC has provided the Trust with a residual  value  guarantee,  which
     means that if the building is sold to a third party, CSC is responsible for
     making up any shortfall between the actual sales price and the $245 million
     funded by the Trust, up to a maximum of $202 million.  Faced with continued
     declines in the San Francisco,  California  commercial  real estate market,
     CSC obtained  appraisals in the first and fourth  quarters of 2002 in order
     to estimate its  obligations  under the residual  value  guarantee.  On the
     basis of these  appraisals,  CSC  determined  that it was probable that the
     fair value of the  property at the end of the lease term would be less than
     the residual value guaranteed by approximately $98 million.  This shortfall
     is being amortized as additional rent expense on a straight-line basis over
     the  initial  lease term which  ends in June 2005.  Effective  in the first
     quarter of 2003,  the  subsidiary  plans to cease  amortizing the shortfall
     upon adoption of Financial  Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN)
     No. 46 - Consolidation  of Variable  Interest  Entities.  See FIN No. 46 in
     note "2 -  Significant  Accounting  Policies" in the Notes to  Consolidated
     Financial  Statements in the Company's 2002 Annual Report to  Stockholders,
     which is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  No.  13.1 of this
     report.

     CSC has  provided  certain  indemnification  agreements  (i.e.,  protection
     against  damage  or  loss)  to   counterparties   in  connection  with  the
     disposition  of  certain of the  Company's  assets.  Such  indemnifications
     relate to employee terminations,  ownership of intellectual property rights
     (e.g., patents), accuracy of financial statements, compliance with laws and
     regulations,  and  misrepresentations.   At  December  31,  2002,  CSC  had
     indemnification  agreements  with  various  expiration  dates and a maximum
     potential liability of approximately $70 million. CSC does not believe that
     any material loss related to such  indemnifications is likely and therefore
     no liability has been recognized.

                                      F-8


                                                                     SCHEDULE II


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                  (In millions)


                                             Additions
                           Balance at  ---------------------          Balance at
                           Beginning    Charged               Written    End
Description                 of Year    to Expense   Other(1)    off    of Year
-----------                ----------  ----------   --------  ------- ----------
For the year ended
 December 31, 2002:

  Allowance for doubtful
   accounts of
   brokerage clients (2)     $  5       $  3         $  1       $ (5)   $  4
                           =====================================================

For the year ended
 December 31, 2001:

  Allowance for doubtful
   accounts of
   brokerage clients (2)     $ 11       $  3                    $ (9)   $  5
                           =====================================================

For the year ended
 December 31, 2000:

  Allowance for doubtful
   accounts of
   brokerage clients (2)     $ 11       $ 16         $  2       $(18)   $ 11
                           =====================================================

(1)  Represents collections of previously written-off accounts.

(2)  Excludes banking-related valuation and qualifying accounts. See "U.S. Trust
     Corporation  Supplemental  Financial  Data  (Unaudited)  - Loans to Banking
     Clients and Related  Allowance  for Credit  Losses" in this report for such
     banking-related information.

                                      F-9


                         The Charles Schwab Corporation
         U.S. Trust Corporation Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)


     The following  supplemental  financial data is presented in accordance with
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  Industry Guide 3 - Statistical  Disclosure
by Bank Holding Companies. The accompanying unaudited financial information only
includes U.S. Trust Corporation, a subsidiary of The Charles Schwab Corporation,
which is a wealth  management  firm that also  provides  fiduciary  and  private
banking services.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Analysis of Change in Net Interest Revenue
An analysis of the year-to-year  changes in the categories of interest revenue and interest expense resulting from changes in volume
and rate, on a taxable equivalent basis, is as follows (in millions):

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              2002 Compared to 2001               2001 Compared to 2000
                                                           Increase (Decrease) Due to          Increase (Decrease) Due to
                                                                   Change in:                         Change in:
                                                        --------------------------------    --------------------------------
                                                         Average      Average      Total     Average      Average      Total
                                                         Balance       Rate                  Balance       Rate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Interest-earning assets:
Cash equivalents                                          $ (5)       $ (4)       $ (9)       $  6        $ (9)       $ (3)
Loans to banking clients  (1)                               51         (54)         (3)         46         (26)         20
Securities available for sale (2):
  U.S. Treasury securities                                   6          (5)          1          (1)         (1)         (2)
  U.S. Government agencies and
     collateralized mortgage obligations  (3)                4          (9)         (5)         11                      11
  State and municipal obligations                            1          (1)                      2                       2
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total securities available for sale                         11         (15)         (4)         12          (1)         11
Other interest-earning assets                                1          (1)                      1                       1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total interest-earning assets                               58         (74)        (16)         65         (36)         29
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest-bearing sources of funds:
Interest-bearing deposits from banking clients              25         (58)        (33)         15         (42)        (27)
Short-term borrowings                                        8         (13)         (5)         22         (16)          6
Long-term debt                                               4          (2)          2          (1)                     (1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total sources on which interest is paid                     37         (73)        (36)         36         (58)        (22)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Change in net interest revenue-taxable equivalent basis   $ 21        $ (1)       $ 20        $ 29        $ 22        $ 51
==================================================================================     ===============================     =========
Tax equivalent adjustment                                                            1                                  (1)
Provision for credit loss                                                           (3)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Change in net interest revenue                                                    $ 18                                $ 50
====================================================================================================================================

Changes that are not due solely to volume or rate have been allocated ratably to their respective categories.
(1)  Includes average principal balances of non-accrual and reduced rate loans.
(2)  The average balance and average rate for securities available for sale have been calculated using their amortized cost.
(3)  Includes collateralized mortgage obligations securities issued by agencies including GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC.

</TABLE>
                                                                F-10


<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


2. Three-year Net Interest Revenue (Tax Equivalent Basis) and Average Balances

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Year Ended December 31,                        2002                           2001                           2000
                                           ---------------------------    ---------------------------    ---------------------------
                                           Average             Average    Average             Average    Average             Average
(Dollars in Millions)                      Balance   Interest   Rate      Balance   Interest    Rate     Balance   Interest    Rate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>         <C>        <C>     <C>         <C>        <C>     <C>         <C>       <C>
Assets:
Cash equivalents                           $   193     $    3     1.55%   $   338     $   12     3.48%   $   241     $   15    6.12%
Securities available for sale (1)(2)         1,508         80     5.31%     1,317         83     6.33%     1,133         72    6.37%
Loans to banking clients (3)                 4,204        236     5.62%     3,469        240     6.91%     2,868        219    7.65%
Other interest-earning assets                   45          2     4.49%        38          3     7.14%        28          2    7.02%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total interest-earning assets                5,950        321     5.40%     5,162        338     6.54%     4,270        308    7.22%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Non-interest-earning assets                    771                            776                            687
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Assets                               $ 6,721                        $ 5,938                        $ 4,957
====================================================================================================================================
Liabilities and Stockholder's Equity:
Interest-bearing deposits from banking
 clients                                     4,045         95     2.36%     3,365        128     3.80%     3,071        155    5.05%
Short-term borrowings                          813         19     2.30%       619         24     3.90%       288         18    6.44%
Long-term debt                                  97          6     6.28%        52          4     8.42%        59          5    8.19%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total sources on which interest is paid      4,955        120     2.43%     4,036        156     3.87%     3,418        178    5.22%
====================================================================================================================================
Non-interest-bearing deposits                  632                            797                            779
Non-interest-bearing liabilities               446                            469                            349
Stockholder's equity                           688                            636                            411
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Liabilities and Stockholder's Equity $ 6,721                        $ 5,938                        $ 4,957
====================================================================================================================================
Net interest revenue - taxable equivalent
 basis                                                    201                            182                            130
Net free funds                             $   994                        $ 1,126                        $   852
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tax equivalent adjustment (2)                              (4)                            (5)                            (4)
Provision for credit loss                                  (3)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       $  194                         $  177                         $  126
====================================================================================================================================
Net yield on interest earning assets
    (tax equivalent basis)                                        3.38%                          3.51%                        3.04%

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  The average balance and average rate for securities available for sale have been calculated using their amortized cost.
(2)  Yields on state and municipal obligations are stated on a taxable equivalent basis,  employing the federal statutory income tax
     rate adjusted for the effect of state and local taxes,  resulting in a marginal tax rate of approximately 45% for 2002, 42% for
     2001, and 40% for 2000.
(3)  Includes average principal balances of non-accrual and reduced rate loans.

</TABLE>

                                                                F-11
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

3. Securities Available for Sale


The amortized cost,  estimated fair value and gross unrealized gains and losses on securities  available for sale are as follows (in
millions):

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                                                                          2002            2001            2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                <C>             <C>             <C>
U.S. treasury securities:
   Amortized cost                                                                  $   290         $   159         $   157
   Aggregate fair value                                                            $   296         $   160         $   157
   Gross unrealized gains                                                          $     6         $     1
   Gross unrealized losses
U.S. government sponsored agencies and corporations:
   Amortized cost                                                                      701             748             774
   Aggregate fair value                                                                727             754             776
   Gross unrealized gains                                                               26               7               6
   Gross unrealized losses                                                                               1               4
State and municipal obligations:
   Amortized cost                                                                      169             154             134
   Aggregate fair value                                                                178             158             135
   Gross unrealized gains                                                                9               4               1
   Gross unrealized losses
Collateralized mortgage obligations (1):
   Amortized cost                                                                       88              84             129
   Aggregate fair value                                                                 87              84             129
   Gross unrealized gains
   Gross unrealized losses                                                               1
Other securities:
   Amortized cost                                                                       33              32              23
   Aggregate fair value                                                                 34              33              23
   Gross unrealized gains                                                                1               1
   Gross unrealized losses
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total securities available for sale:
   Amortized cost                                                                  $ 1,281         $ 1,177         $ 1,217
   Aggregate fair value                                                            $ 1,322         $ 1,189         $ 1,220
   Gross unrealized gains                                                          $    42         $    13         $     7
   Gross unrealized losses                                                         $     1         $     1         $     4
====================================================================================================================================

(1) Collateralized by either GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC obligations.

</TABLE>

                                                                F-12

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

4. Loans to Banking Clients and Related Allowance for Credit Losses


An analysis of the composition of the loan portfolio is as follows (in millions):


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                                           2002            2001             2000           1999           1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>              <C>            <C>            <C>
Private banking:
  Residential real estate mortgages                 $ 3,594         $ 3,085          $ 2,249        $ 1,985        $ 1,630
  Other                                                 976             943              849            664            526
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total private banking loans                        4,570           4,028            3,098          2,649          2,156
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Loans to financial institutions
  for purchasing and carrying securities                                 32               61             57             32
All other                                                 9               7                8              3              3
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                             $ 4,579         $ 4,067          $ 3,167        $ 2,709        $ 2,191
====================================================================================================================================

An analysis of nonperforming assets is as follows (in millions):

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                                           2002            2001             2000           1999           1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Non-accrual loans                                   $     1         $     5          $     1        $     2        $     6
Other real estate owned, net                                                                                             1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                             $     1         $     5          $     1        $     2        $     7
====================================================================================================================================
Average non-accrual loans                           $     3         $     4          $     1        $     1        $     8
====================================================================================================================================

An analysis of the allowance for credit losses on the loan portfolio is as follows (in millions):

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       2002            2001             2000           1999           1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at beginning of year                        $    21         $    20          $    20        $    19        $    18
Net recoveries:
  Private banking                                                         1                               1              1
  Other
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net total recoveries                                                   1                               1              1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision charged to income                               3
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at end of year                              $    24         $    21          $    20        $    20        $    19
====================================================================================================================================

</TABLE>
                                                                F-13


<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
The maturities of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2002 is as follows (in millions):

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     Within           1-5              Over
                                                                     1 Year          Years            5 Years          Total
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                 <C>             <C>              <C>             <C>
Private banking:
   Residential real estate mortgages (1)                            $   852         $  829           $ 1,913         $ 3,594
   Other                                                                917             40                19             976
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total private banking loans                                           1,769            869             1,932           4,570
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Loans to financial institutions for purchasing
   and carrying securities
All other                                                                 4              1                 4               9
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                                           $ 1,773         $  870           $ 1,936         $ 4,579
====================================================================================================================================
Interest sensitivity of loans at December 31, 2002:
   Loans with predetermined interest rates                                          $  223           $   771         $   994
   Loans with floating or adjustable interest rates                                    647             1,165           1,812
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total                                                                      $  870           $ 1,936         $ 2,806
====================================================================================================================================
(1) Maturities are based upon the contractual terms of the loans.

</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

5. Summary of Credit Loss on Banking Loans Experience

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Dollars in Millions)                                         2002          2001          2000          1999          1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                        <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Average loans                                              $ 4,204       $ 3,469       $ 2,867       $ 2,404       $ 1,969
Allowance to year end loans                                   .52%          .53%          .64%          .74%          .89%
Allowance to nonperforming loans                               n/m           n/m           n/m           n/m           n/m
Net recoveries to average loans                                             .01%                        .02%          .03%
Nonperforming assets to average
  loans and real estate owned                                 .03%          .14%          .05%          .07%          .34%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

n/m - Not meaningful, greater than two hundred percent.

At December 31, 2002, the loan portfolio included loans to individuals  involved in the financial services industry of approximately
$1.1 billion.  Recoveries exceeded charge-offs from loans to individuals involved in the financial services industry in 1998 through
2001. Recoveries approximated charge-offs from loans to individuals involved in the financial services industry in 2002.

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

6. Deposits from Banking Clients

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           2002                         2001                       2000
                                                   --------------------         --------------------       --------------------
(Dollars in Millions)                              Amount          Rate         Amount          Rate       Amount         Rate
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>             <C>          <C>             <C>        <C>            <C>
Analysis of average daily deposits:
    Noninterest-bearing deposits                  $   632                      $   797                    $   779
    Certificates of deposits of $100 or more           63         2.30%             80         4.21%           54        5.61%
    Money market and other savings deposits         3,983         2.98%          3,285         3.79%        3,017        5.15%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total deposits                           $ 4,678                      $ 4,162                    $ 3,850
====================================================================================================================================

</TABLE>

                                                                F-14
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                         Certificates              Other
(In Millions)                                                                             of Deposit              Deposits
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                          <C>                  <C>
Maturity distribution of interest bearing deposits in Amounts of $100 or more
  at December 31, 2002:
      Three months or less                                                                   $   32               $ 2,773
      Three through six months                                                                   33
      Six through twelve months                                                                   4
      Over twelve months                                                                          4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total                                                                               $   73               $ 2,773
====================================================================================================================================

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


7. Short-term Borrowings

An analysis of outstanding short-term borrowings is as follows (dollars in millions):


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                                                                        2002              2001              2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                               <C>               <C>               <C>
Federal funds purchased:
  Year-end balance                                                                $   16            $   26            $   12
  Daily average balance                                                           $  133            $   66            $  115
  Maximum month-end balance                                                       $  449            $   63            $  311
  Weighted-average interest rate during the year                                   1.74%             3.89%             6.50%
  Weighted-average interest rate at year end                                       1.13%             1.71%             5.81%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase:
  Year-end balance                                                                $  326            $  183            $  100
  Daily average balance                                                           $  296            $  136            $   72
  Maximum month-end balance                                                       $  388            $  225            $  102
  Weighted-average interest rate during the year                                   2.20%             3.66%             5.98%
  Weighted-average interest rate at year end                                       2.00%             2.26%             6.39%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other borrowed funds:
  Year-end balance                                                                $  166            $  354            $  227
  Daily average balance                                                           $  350            $  415            $  101
  Maximum month-end balance                                                       $  408            $  867            $  227
  Weighted-average interest rate during the year                                   2.60%             3.99%             6.73%
  Weighted-average interest rate at year end                                       1.43%             3.80%             6.76%
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>
                                                                F-15

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

8. Ratios

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year ended December 31,                                      2002           2001          2000          1999          1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                        <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Return on average stockholder's equity (1)                  4.53%         22.50%        10.54%        29.22%        26.20%
Return on average total assets (1)                           .46%          2.41%          .87%         1.85%         1.68%
Average stockholder's equity as a percentage of
   Average total assets                                    10.24%         10.70%         8.29%         6.35%         6.42%

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  Includes after-tax  extraordinary gain related to the sale of corporate trust business of $12 million, merger retention program
     costs of $13 million,  and  restructuring  and other charges of $24 million in 2002.  Excluding these costs,  return on average
     stockholder's  equity  would have been 8.17% and return on average  total  assets  would have been .84%.  In 2001,  includes an
     after-tax  extraordinary  gain on the sale of corporate trust business of $121 million,  merger retention  program costs of $31
     million,  and restructuring and other charges of $28 million.  Excluding these costs,  return on average  stockholder's  equity
     would have been 12.67% and return on average total assets would have been 1.36%.

</TABLE>
                                                                F-16

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
