<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>f10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K, YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002
<TEXT>
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                  FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT
        TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      (Mark One)
      [ X ]ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

                                      OR

      [   ]TRANSITION   REPORT   PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13  OR  15(d)  OF  THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE                 ACT OF 1934
           For the transition period from __________ to ___________

                        Commission file number 0-16211

                         DENTSPLY International Inc.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                      Delaware                            39-1434669
                (State or other jurisdiction of           (IRS Employer
                   incorporation or organization)          Identification No.)

            570 West College Avenue, York, Pennsylvania 17405-0872
             (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (717) 845-7511

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

           Title of each class   Name of each exchange on which registered

                None                      Not applicable

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                    Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                               (Title of class)

      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act
of 1934 during the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the
registrant  was  required to file such  reports),  and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]    No [ ]





D1
<PAGE>




      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of  delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item  405  of  Regulation  S-K  is  not  contained  herein,  and  will  not be
contained,  to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy or
information  statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

      Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is an  accelerated  filer
(as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
Yes [X]    No [ ]

      The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 28, 2002 was $2,827,512,659.



      The number of shares of the registrant's  Common Stock outstanding as of
the close of business on March 3, 2003 was 78,458,951.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      Certain portions of the  registrant's  annual report to shareholders for
fiscal year 2002 (the "2002 Annual Report to  Shareholders")  are incorporated
by  reference  into Parts I and II of this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K to the
extent provided  herein.  Certain  portions of the definitive  Proxy Statement
of DENTSPLY  International  Inc. to be used in connection with the 2003 Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders   (the  "Proxy   Statement")  are   incorporated  by
reference  into Part III of this  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K to the  extent
provided  herein.  Except as specifically  incorporated  by reference  herein,
neither the 2002 Annual  Report to  Shareholders  nor the Proxy  Statement are
to be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



D1
<PAGE>


                                    PART I

Item 1.  Business

   Certain  statements  made by the  Company,  including  without  limitation,
statements   containing   the  words   "plans",   "anticipates",   "believes",
"expects",  or words of  similar  import  may be deemed to be  forward-looking
statements  and  are  made  pursuant  to the  safe  harbor  provisions  of the
Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform Act of 1995.  Investors  are cautioned
that  forward-looking  statements  involve risks and  uncertainties  which are
described  in this  Item 1 and  which  may  materially  affect  the  Company's
business and prospects.

History and Overview

   DENTSPLY  International  Inc.  ("DENTSPLY"  or the  "Company"),  a Delaware
corporation,  was created by a merger of  Dentsply  International  Inc.  ("Old
Dentsply")  and GENDEX  Corporation  in 1993.  Old Dentsply,  founded in 1899,
was a manufacturer  and  distributor of artificial  teeth,  dental  equipment,
and dental consumable  products.  GENDEX,  founded in 1983, was a manufacturer
of dental  x-ray  equipment  and  handpieces.  Today,  DENTSPLY is the world's
largest  designer,  developer,  manufacturer  and marketer of a broad range of
products for the dental  market.  The  Company's  worldwide  headquarters  and
executive offices are located in York, Pennsylvania.

   The  Company  operates  in  a  single  reporting  segment  as  a  designer,
manufacturer  and distributor of dental products in two principal  categories:
1). Dental  consumables and small equipment,  and 2). Large  equipment.  Sales
of  the  Company's  dental  products   accounted  for   approximately  98%  of
DENTSPLY's  consolidated  sales for the year  ended  December  31,  2002.  The
remaining 2% of consolidated  sales is primarily  related to materials sold to
the investment casting industry.


   The  Company   conducts  its  business  in  over  120  foreign   countries,
principally    through   its   foreign    subsidiaries.    DENTSPLY    has   a
long-established  presence in Canada and in the European market,  particularly
in Germany,  Switzerland,  France,  Italy and the United Kingdom.  Through its
recent  acquisitions,  the Company has also established a stronger presence in
other European  markets in the Netherlands  and Austria.  The Company also has
a significant  market presence in Central and South America  including Brazil,
Mexico,  Argentina,  Colombia,  and Chile; in South Africa; and in the Pacific
Rim including Australia,  New Zealand,  China (including Hong Kong), Thailand,
India,  Philippines,  Taiwan,  Korea,  Vietnam,  Indonesia and Japan. DENTSPLY
has also  established  marketing  activities  in  Moscow,  Russia to serve the
countries of the former Soviet Union.

   For 2002,  2001 and 2000,  the  Company's  sales to  customers  outside the
United States,  including export sales,  accounted for approximately  55%, 49%
and 42%,  respectively,  of consolidated net sales. The information  about the
Company's  United  States and foreign  sales and assets set forth in Note 4 of
the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in the Company's 2002 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

   As  a  result  of  the  Company's  significant   international  operations,
DENTSPLY  is subject to  fluctuations  in  exchange  rates of various  foreign
currencies  and other  risks  associated  with  foreign  trade.  The impact of
currency  fluctuations  in any given period can be  favorable or  unfavorable.
The  impact  of  foreign  currency  fluctuations  of  European  currencies  on
operating  income  is  partially  offset  by sales  in the  United  States  of
products  sourced  from plants and third  party  suppliers  located  overseas,
principally  in Germany  and  Switzerland.  The Company  enters  into  forward
foreign  exchange  contracts to  selectively  hedge  assets,  liabilities  and
purchases  denominated  in  foreign  currencies.   The  information  regarding
foreign  exchange risk  management  activities set forth in  Quantitative  and
Qualitative  Disclosure  About  Market  Risk  under Item 7A and Note 15 of the
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  2002  Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.



D1
<PAGE>



   DENTSPLY believes that the dental products industry is experiencing
substantial consolidation with respect to both product manufacturing and
distribution, although it continues to be fragmented creating numerous
acquisition opportunities. As a result, during the past three years, the
Company has made numerous acquisitions including three significant
acquisitions made during 2001. In January 2001, the Company acquired the
outstanding shares of Friadent GmbH ("Friadent"), a global dental implant
manufacturer and marketer previously headquartered in Mannheim, Germany. In
March 2001, the Company acquired the dental injectible anaesthetic assets of
AstraZeneca ("AZ Assets"). In October 2001, the Company acquired the Degussa
Dental Group ("Degussa Dental"), a manufacturer and seller of dental
products, including precious metal alloys, ceramics, dental laboratory
equipment and chairside products previously headquartered in Hanau, Germany.
Information about these acquisitions and the other acquisition and
divestiture activities is set forth in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders and
is incorporated herein by reference.  These acquisitions are intended to
supplement DENTSPLY's core growth and assure ongoing expansion of its
business. In addition, acquisitions continue to provide DENTSPLY with new
technologies and additional product breadth.

   Certain provisions of DENTSPLY's Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws
and of Delaware law could have the effect of making it difficult for a third
party to acquire control of DENTSPLY. Such provisions include the division
of the Board of Directors of DENTSPLY into three classes, with the
three-year term of a class expiring each year, a provision allowing the
Board of Directors to issue preferred stock having rights senior to those of
the common stock and certain procedural requirements which make it difficult
for stockholders to amend DENTSPLY's By-laws and which preclude stockholders
from calling special meetings of stockholders. In addition, members of
DENTSPLY's management and participants in its Employee Stock Ownership Plan
collectively own approximately 10% of the outstanding common stock of
DENTSPLY, which may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire
control of DENTSPLY in a transaction that is opposed by DENTSPLY's
management and employees.

Principal Products

   The worldwide  professional  dental  industry  encompasses  the  diagnosis,
treatment  and  prevention  of  disease  and  ailments  of the  teeth,  gums and
supporting  bone.  DENTSPLY's two principal dental product lines are consumables
and small  equipment  and large  equipment.  These  products are produced by the
Company in the United States and internationally and are distributed  throughout
the world under some of the most well-established  brand names and trademarks in
the  industry,   including   ACUCAM(R),   ANKYLOS(R),   AQUASIL(TM),   CAULK(R),
CAVITRON(R),   CERAMCO(R),  CERCON(R),  DELTON(R),  DENOPTIX(TM),   DENTSPLY(R),
DETREY(R), ELEPHANT(R), ESTHET.X(R), FRIALIT(R), GAC ORTHOWORKS(TM),  GENDEX(R),
IN-OVATION(TM), MAILLEFER(R), MIDWEST(R), NUPRO(R), PEPGEN P-15(TM), PROFILE(R),
RINN(R), R&R(R), SANI-TIP(R), THERMAFIL(R) and TRUBYTE(R).

   Consumables  and Small  Equipment.  Consumable  products  consist of dental
sundries  used in dental  offices in the  treatment  of patients and in dental
laboratories  in the  preparation of dental  appliances.  DENTSPLY's  products
in this category  include  dental  prosthetics,  including  artificial  teeth,
endodontic  (root  canal)   instruments  and  materials,   dental   injectable
anesthetics,   prophylaxis  paste,  dental  sealants,   implants,   impression
materials,   restorative  materials,  precious  metal  dental  alloys,  dental
ceramics,  crown and bridge  materials,  tooth  whiteners,  topical  fluoride,
cutting   instruments,   dental  needles,   and  orthodontic   appliances  and
accessories.  The Company  manufactures  thousands of different consumable and
laboratory  products  marketed  under more than a hundred  brand names.  Small
equipment  products  consist of various  durable goods used in dental  offices
for  treatment  of  patients  as well as in  dental  laboratories.  DENTSPLY's
small  equipment  products  include  high and low speed  handpieces,  computer
aided  machining  (CAM)  ceramics   systems,   intraoral   lighting   systems,
ultrasonic   scalers  and  polishers,   air  abrasion  systems  and  porcelain
furnaces.   Sales  of   consumable   and   small   equipment   accounted   for
approximately  92% of the  Company's  consolidated  sales  for the year  ended
December 31, 2002.

   Large  Equipment.  Large  equipment  products  consist of  various  durable
goods  used in dental  offices  primarily  for the  diagnosis  of  patients  .
DENTSPLY's  large  equipment  product lines include  conventional  and digital
dental  x-ray  systems  and  related   support   equipment  and   accessories,
intraoral  cameras,  computer imaging systems and related  software.  Sales of
large equipment  accounted for approximately 6% of the Company's  consolidated
sales for the year ended December 31, 2002.




D1
<PAGE>


Markets, Sales and Distribution

   DENTSPLY  distributes  approximately  60% of its  dental  products  through
domestic and foreign  distributors,  dealers and importers.  However,  certain
highly  technical  products  such as  precious  metal  dental  alloys,  dental
ceramics,  crown and bridge  porcelain  products,  endodontic  instruments and
materials,  orthodontic appliances,  implants and bone substitute and grafting
materials  are sold  directly  to the  dental  laboratory  or  dentist in some
markets.  No  customers  accounted  for more than ten percent of  consolidated
net sales in 2002.

   The  information  about the Company's  foreign and domestic  operations and
export  sales  set  forth  in Note 4 of the  Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  in  the  Company's   2002  Annual   Report  to   Shareholders   is
incorporated herein by reference.

   Although  much  of  its  sales  are  made  to  distributors,  dealers,  and
importers,  DENTSPLY  focuses its marketing  efforts on the  dentists,  dental
hygienists,  dental  assistants,  dental  laboratories  and dental schools who
are the end users of its  products.  As part of this end-user  "pull  through"
marketing  approach,  DENTSPLY  employs  approximately  1,700 highly  trained,
product-specific   sales  and   technical   staff  to  provide   comprehensive
marketing and service tailored to the particular  sales and technical  support
requirements  of  the  dealers  and  the  end  users.   The  Company  conducts
extensive  distributor and end-user  marketing  programs and trains laboratory
technicians and dentists in the proper use of its products,  introducing  them
to the latest  technological  developments at its Educational  Centers located
in key dental  markets.  The  Company  also  maintains  ongoing  relationships
with various dental  associations and recognized  worldwide opinion leaders in
the dental field.

   DENTSPLY  believes  that  demand in a given  geographic  market  for dental
procedures  and products  varies  according  to the stage of social,  economic
and technical  development  that the market has attained.  Geographic  markets
for DENTSPLY's  dental  products can be categorized  into the following  three
stages of development:

   The United States, Canada,  Western Europe, the United Kingdom,  Japan, and
Australia are highly  developed  markets that demand the most advanced  dental
procedures and products and have the highest level of  expenditures  on dental
care.  In  these  markets,  the  focus of  dental  care is  increasingly  upon
preventive care and  specialized  dentistry.  In addition to basic  procedures
such as the  excavation  and  filling of  cavities  and tooth  extraction  and
denture  replacement,  dental  professionals  perform an increasing  volume of
preventive  and  cosmetic   procedures.   These  markets  require  varied  and
complex  dental  products,   utilize  sophisticated   diagnostic  and  imaging
equipment,   and  demand  high  levels  of  attention  to  protection  against
infection and patient cross-contamination.

   In certain  countries  in Central  America,  South  America and the Pacific
Rim,  dental care is often limited to the  excavation  and filling of cavities
and  other   restorative   techniques,   reflecting  more  modest  per  capita
expenditures  for dental care.  These markets demand diverse  products such as
high and low speed handpieces,  restorative  compounds,  finishing devices and
custom restorative devices.

   In the People's  Republic of China,  India,  Eastern Europe,  the countries
of the former Soviet Union,  and other developing  countries,  dental ailments
are treated  primarily  through  tooth  extraction  and  denture  replacement.
These  procedures  require basic surgical  instruments,  artificial  teeth for
dentures and bridgework, and anchoring devices such as posts.

   The Company  offers  products and  equipment  for use in markets at each of
these  stages  of  development.  The  Company  believes  that as each of these
markets  develop,   demand  for  more  technically   advanced   products  will
increase.  The Company also believes  that its  recognized  brand names,  high
quality  and  innovative  products,  technical  support  services  and  strong
international  distribution  capabilities  position it well to take  advantage
of any opportunities for growth in all of the markets that it serves.



D1
<PAGE>



   The Company  believes  that the  following  trends  support  the  Company's
confidence in its industry growth outlook:

o     Increasing   worldwide   population   -  Population   growth   continues
   throughout the world.

o     Growth of the  population  65 or older - The  percentage  of the  United
   States,  European  and  Japanese  population  over  age 65 is  expected  to
   nearly  double by the year 2030.  In addition to having  significant  needs
   for dental care,  the elderly are well  positioned  to pay for the required
   procedures since they control sizable amounts of discretionary income.

o     Natural  teeth are being  retained  longer -  Individuals  with  natural
   teeth are much more  likely to visit a dentist  in a given  year than those
   without any natural teeth remaining.

o     The Changing  Dental  Practice in the U.S. - Dentistry in North  America
   has  been  transformed  from a  profession  primarily  dealing  with  pain,
   infections  and tooth decay to one with  increased  emphasis on  preventive
   care and cosmetic dentistry.

o     Per capita and discretionary  incomes are increasing in emerging nations
   - As  personal  incomes  continue  to rise in the  emerging  nations of the
   Pacific Rim and Latin America,  healthcare,  including dental services, are
   a growing priority.

o     The  Company's  business is less  susceptible  than other  industries to
   general  downturns  in the  economies  in  which it  operates.  Many of the
   products  the  Company  offers  relate  to  dental   procedures   that  are
   considered necessary by patients regardless of the economic environment.

Product Development

   Technological  innovation and successful  product  development are critical
to  strengthening  the  Company's   prominent  position  in  worldwide  dental
markets,  maintaining its leadership  positions in product categories where it
has a high market share,  and  increasing  market share in product  categories
where  gains are  possible.  While many of  DENTSPLY's  innovations  represent
sequential  improvements of existing  products,  the Company also continues to
successfully  launch products that represent  fundamental change. Its research
centers  throughout the world employ  approximately  350 scientists,  Ph.D.'s,
engineers  and  technicians  dedicated  to research  and product  development.
Approximately $41.6 million,  $28.3 million, and $20.4 million,  respectively,
was internally  invested by the Company in connection  with the development of
new products and in the  improvement  of existing  products in the years ended
2002,  2001 and 2000,  respectively.  There can be no assurance  that DENTSPLY
will be able to continue to develop  innovative  products and that  regulatory
approval of any new products will be obtained,  or that if such  approvals are
obtained, such products will be accepted in the marketplace.


Operating and Technical Expertise

   DENTSPLY  believes  that its  manufacturing  capabilities  are important to
its  success.  The  Company  continues  to automate  its global  manufacturing
operations in order to remain a low cost producer.

   The manufacture of the Company's  products requires  substantial and varied
technical   expertise.   Complex   materials   technology  and  processes  are
necessary to manufacture the Company's products.

    DENTSPLY  has  completed  or has in  progress a number of key  initiatives
around  the  world  that are  focused  on  helping  the  Company  improve  its
operating margins.


o     The Company is constructing a plant site outside Chicago,  where it will
   establish a major dental  anesthetic  filling plant.  The Company  believes
   that the plant will become  operational  during  2004,  which  includes the
   FDA  validation  of  the  manufacturing  practices  and  the  provision  of
   products  to  certain  international   markets.  This  initiative  is  very
   important  to  the  Company  since   AstraZeneca,   the  Company's  current
   supplier,  will  cease to supply  product to  certain  markets by  year-end
   2004.  As a result,  this plant must be  operational  prior to that time to
   avoid any disruption in supply.


o     A Corporate  Purchasing  office has been  established  to  leverage  the
   buying  power of  Dentsply  around the world and reduce our  product  costs
   through lower prices and reduced related overhead.

o     The Company has centralized  its  warehousing and  distribution in North
   America and Europe.  While the initial  gains from this  strategy have been
   realized,   ongoing   efforts   are  in   place  to   maximize   additional
   opportunities   that  can  be  gained  through   improving  our  functional
   expertise in supply chain management.

o     A Corporate  Quality  group is focused on  improving  manufacturing  and
   distribution  processes  throughout  the Company  with a goal to  eliminate
   non-value  added  activities,   improving  product  quality  and  expanding
   product margins.

o     DENTSPLY  has  seen  significant  gains  from the  formation  of a North
   American Shared  Services  group.  The Company has established a task force
   to assess possible efficiency  opportunities  related to the accounting and
   finance processes within Europe.

o     Information   technology   initiatives   are  underway  to   standardize
   worldwide   telecommunications,   implement   improved   manufacturing  and
   financial  accounting  systems  and an  ongoing  training  of IT  users  to
   maximize the capabilities of global systems.

o     DENTSPLY  continues  to pursue  opportunities  to leverage its assets by
   consolidating   business  units  where  appropriate  and  to  optimize  its
   diversity of worldwide manufacturing capabilities.

Financing

   DENTSPLY's  long-term  debt at December 31, 2002 was $769.8 million and the
ratio of  long-term  debt to total  capitalization  was  47.9%.  DENTSPLY  may
incur  additional  debt in the future,  including  the  funding of  additional
acquisitions  and capital  expenditures.  DENTSPLY's  ability to make payments
on  its  indebtedness,  and to  fund  its  operations  depends  on its  future
performance and financial  results,  which,  to a certain extent,  are subject
to general  economic,  financial,  competitive,  regulatory  and other factors
that are  beyond  its  control.  Although  the  Management  believes  that the
Company has and will continue to have  sufficient  liquidity,  there can be no
assurance that  DENTSPLY's  business will generate  sufficient  cash flow from
operations in the future to service its debt and operate its business.

   DENTSPLY's   existing   borrowing   documentation   contains  a  number  of
covenants  and  financial  ratios which it is required to satisfy.  Any breach
of any such  covenants or  restrictions  would  result in a default  under the
existing  borrowing  documentation  that would  permit the  lenders to declare
all borrowings  under such  documentation  to be  immediately  due and payable
and,  through  cross  default  provisions,   would  entitle  DENTSPLY's  other
lenders  to  accelerate  their  loans.  DENTSPLY  may not be able to meet  its
obligations  under its  outstanding  indebtedness  in the event that any cross
default provision is triggered.

   Additional  information  about DENTSPLY's  working  capital,  liquidity and
capital  resources is  incorporated  herein by reference to the material under
the caption  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" in the Company's 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.




D1
<PAGE>


Competition

   The Company  conducts its  operations,  both  domestic  and foreign,  under
highly  competitive  market  conditions.  Competition  in the dental  products
industry is based  primarily  upon product  performance,  quality,  safety and
ease of use, as well as price,  customer  service,  innovation  and acceptance
by  professionals  and  technicians.  DENTSPLY  believes  that  its  principal
strengths  include  its  well-established  brand  names,  its  reputation  for
high-quality and innovative  products,  its leadership in product  development
and  manufacturing,  and its  commitment  to customer  service  and  technical
support.

   The size and number of the Company's  competitors  vary by product line and
from region to region.  There are many  companies  that produce some,  but not
all,  of the  same  types  of  products  as  those  produced  by the  Company.
Certain of DENTSPLY's  competitors  may have greater  resources  than does the
Company in certain of its product offerings.

   The  worldwide   market  for  dental   supplies  and  equipment  is  highly
competitive.  There can be no  assurance  that the Company  will  successfully
identify  new  product  opportunities  and  develop  and market  new  products
successfully,   or  that  new  products   and   technologies   introduced   by
competitors   will   not   render   the   Company's   products   obsolete   or
noncompetitive.

Regulation

   The  Company's   products  are  subject  to  regulation   by,  among  other
governmental  entities,  the United States Food and Drug  Administration  (the
"FDA").  In  general,  if a dental  "device"  is  subject  to FDA  regulation,
compliance   with  the  FDA's   requirements   constitutes   compliance   with
corresponding  state  regulations.  In order to ensure  that  dental  products
distributed  for human use in the United  States are safe and  effective,  the
FDA   regulates  the   introduction,   manufacture,   advertising,   labeling,
packaging,  marketing  and  distribution  of,  and  record-keeping  for,  such
products.  The  anesthetic  products  sold by the Company are  regulated  as a
drug  by the FDA and by all  other  similar  regulatory  agencies  around  the
world.

   Dental  devices of the types sold by DENTSPLY are  generally  classified by
the FDA into a category  that renders  them  subject only to general  controls
that  apply  to  all  medical   devices,   including   regulations   regarding
alteration, misbranding,  notification,  record-keeping and good manufacturing
practices.  DENTSPLY's  facilities  are subject to periodic  inspection by the
FDA to monitor DENTSPLY's  compliance with these regulations.  There can be no
assurance  that  the FDA  will  not  raise  compliance  concerns.  Failure  to
satisfy FDA  requirements  can result in FDA  enforcement  actions,  including
product  seizure,  injunction  and/or  criminal or civil  proceedings.  In the
European  Union,  DENTSPLY's  products are subject to the medical devices laws
of the various  member  states  which are based on a Directive of the European
Commission.  Such laws  generally  regulate  the safety of the  products  in a
similar way to the FDA  regulations.  DENTSPLY  products in Europe bear the CE
sign showing that such products adhere to the European regulations.

   All dental amalgam  filling  materials,  including those  manufactured  and
sold by DENTSPLY,  contain  mercury.  Various  groups have alleged that dental
amalgam  containing  mercury  is harmful  to human  health  and have  actively
lobbied  state and  federal  lawmakers  and  regulators  to pass laws or adopt
regulatory  changes  restricting  the use,  or  requiring  a  warning  against
alleged  potential  risks,  of  dental  amalgams.  The  FDA's  Dental  Devices
Classification  Panel,  the  National  Institutes  of  Health  and the  United
States  Public  Health  Service have each  indicated  that no direct hazard to
humans from  exposure to dental  amalgams  has been  demonstrated.  If the FDA
were to reclassify  dental  mercury and amalgam  filling  materials as classes
of products  requiring  FDA  pre-market  approval,  there can be no  assurance
that the  required  approval  would be obtained  or that the FDA would  permit
the continued sale of amalgam  filling  materials  pending its  determination.
In Europe,  in particular in Scandinavia and Germany,  the contents of mercury
in amalgam filling materials has been the subject of public  discussion.  As a
consequence,  in 1994 the German  health  authorities  required  suppliers  of
dental  amalgam  to  amend  the  instructions  for  use  for  amalgam  filling
materials,  to include a  precaution  against the use of amalgam for  children
under eighteen years of age and to women of  childbearing  age.  DENTSPLY also
manufactures  and  sells  non-amalgam  dental  filling  materials  that do not
contain mercury.

   The  introduction  and sale of dental products of the types produced by the
Company are also  subject to  government  regulation  in the  various  foreign
countries  in  which  they are  produced  or  sold.  Some of these  regulatory
requirements  are more stringent  than those  applicable in the United States.
DENTSPLY  believes  that it is in  substantial  compliance  with  the  foreign
regulatory   requirements   that   are   applicable   to  its   products   and
manufacturing operations.




D1
<PAGE>


Sources and Supply of Raw Materials

  All of the raw  materials  used by the  Company  in the  manufacture  of its
products  are  purchased  from  various   suppliers  and  are  available  from
numerous  sources.  No single  supplier,  except for the  supplier of precious
metal raw materials,  accounts for a significant  percentage of DENTSPLY's raw
material  requirements.  There are alternative suppliers of precious metal raw
materials readily available.

Intellectual Property

   Products  manufactured  by  DENTSPLY  are  sold  primarily  under  its  own
trademarks  and trade names.  DENTSPLY also owns and maintains more than 1,000
patents  throughout  the world and is licensed under a small number of patents
owned by others.

   DENTSPLY's  policy  is to  protect  its  products  and  technology  through
patents and trademark  registrations  in the United States and in  significant
international  markets  for  its  products.  The  Company  carefully  monitors
trademark  use  worldwide,   and  promotes  enforcement  of  its  patents  and
trademarks  in a  manner  that  is  designed  to  balance  the  cost  of  such
protection  against  obtaining  the greatest  value for the Company.  DENTSPLY
believes its patents and trademark  properties  are  important and  contribute
to the  Company's  marketing  position  but it does not  consider  its overall
business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent or trademark.

Employees

   As of  December  31,  2002,  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  employed
approximately   7,800   employees.   A  small   percentage  of  the  Company's
employees are  represented  by labor unions.  Hourly  workers at the Company's
Ransom & Randolph  facility in Maumee,  Ohio are  represented  by Local No. 12
of the  International  Union,  United  Automobile,  Aerospace and  Agriculture
Implement  Workers of America  under a collective  bargaining  agreement  that
expires on January 31, 2004.  Hourly  workers at the Company's  Midwest Dental
Products  facility in Des Plaines,  Illinois  are  represented  by  Automobile
Mechanics'  Local No. 701 in Chicago under a collective  bargaining  agreement
that  expires  on May 31,  2003.  In  addition,  approximately  20% of Degussa
Dental  Germany's  workforce  is  represented  by labor  unions.  The  Company
believes that its relationship with its employees is good.

   The  Company's  success is dependent  upon its  management  and  employees.
The loss of senior  management  employees  or any failure to recruit and train
needed  managerial,  sales  and  technical  personnel  could  have a  material
adverse effect on the Company.

Environmental Matters

   DENTSPLY  believes  that its  operations  comply in all  material  respects
with applicable  environmental  laws and  regulations.  Maintaining this level
of compliance  has not had, and is not expected to have, a material  effect on
the Company's capital expenditures or on its business.

Website Materials

   DENTSPLY   makes   available   free  of  charge   through  its  website  at
www.dentsply.com  its annual  report on Form 10-K,  quarterly  reports on Form
10-Q,  current  reports on Form 8-K and  amendments  to these reports filed or
furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act
of 1934 as soon as  reasonably  practicable  after  such  materials  are filed
with or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



D1
<PAGE>


Item 2.  Properties

      The following is a list of DENTSPLY's principal  manufacturing locations
as of December31, 2002:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                        Leased
 Location                                                   Function                                   or Owned

<S>                                        <C>                                                     <C>
 United States:

 Los Angeles, California                    Manufacture and distribution of investment                   Leased
                                            casting products

 Yucaipa , California                       Manufacture and distribution of dental                       Owned
                                            laboratory products and dental ceramics

 Lakewood, Colorado                         Manufacture and distribution of bone grafting                Leased
                                            materials and hydroxylapatite plasma-feed coating
                                            materials and distribution of dental implant poducts

 Milford, Delaware                          Manufacture of consumable dental products                    Owned

 Des Plaines, Illinois                      Manufacture and assembly of dental handpieces                Leased
                                            and components and dental x-ray equipment

 Elk Grove Village, Illinois                Future manufacture of anesthetic products                  Owned and Leased

 Elgin, Illinois                            Manufacture of dental x-ray film holders, film               Owned
                                            mounts and accessories

 Franklin Park, Illinois                    Manufacture and distribution of needles and                  Owned
                                            needle-related products, primarily for the dental
                                            profession

 Maumee, Ohio                               Manufacture and distribution of investment                   Owned
                                            casting products

 York, Pennsylvania                         Manufacture and distribution of artificial teeth             Owned
                                            and other dental laboratory products;
                                            corporate headquarters

 York, Pennsylvania                         Manufacture of small dental equipment and                    Owned
                                            preventive dental products

 Johnson City, Tennessee                    Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                   Leased
                                            instruments and materials

 Foreign:

 Catanduva, Brazil                          Manufacture and distribution of consumable                   Owned
                                            dental products

 Petropolis, Brazil                         Manufacture and distribution of artificial teeth             Owned
                                            and consumable dental products
</TABLE>



D1
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                        Leased
 Location                                                   Function                                   or Owned

<S>                                        <C>                                                     <C>

 Petropolis, Brazil                         Manufacture and distribution of dental                       Owned
                                            anesthetics

 Tianjin, China                             Manufacture and distribution of dental products              Leased

 Plymouth, England                          Manufacture of dental hand instruments                       Leased

 Sur-Seine, France                          Manufacture and distribution of investment                   Leased
                                            casting products

 Bohmte, Germany                            Manufacture and distribution of dental                       Owned
                                            laboratory products

 Hanau, Germany                             Manufacture and distribution of precious metal               Owned
                                            dental alloys, dental ceramics and dental
                                            implant products

 Konstanz, Germany                          Manufacture and distribution of consumable                   Owned
                                            dental products

 Mannheim, Germany                          Manufacture and distribution of dental                       Owned
                                            implant products

 Munich, Germany                            Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                   Owned
                                            instruments and materials

 Rosbach, Germany                           Manufacture and distribution of dental ceramics              Owned

 New Delhi, India                           Manufacture and distribution of dental products              Leased

 Milan, Italy                               Manufacture and distribution of dental                       Leased
                                            x-ray equipment

 Nasu, Japan                                Manufacture and distribution of precious metal               Owned
                                            dental alloys, consumable dental products and
                                            orthodontic products

 Hoorn, Netherlands                         Manufacture and distribution of precious metal               Owned
                                            dental alloys and dental ceramics

 Las Piedras, Puerto Rico                   Manufacture of crown and bridge materials                    Owned

 Ballaigues, Switzerland                    Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                   Owned
                                            instruments

 Ballaigues, Switzerland                    Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                   Owned
                                            instruments, plastic components and
                                            packaging material

 Le Creux, Switzerland                      Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                   Owned
                                            instruments

</TABLE>




D1
<PAGE>


    In  addition,  the Company  maintains  sales and  distribution  offices at
certain of its foreign and domestic  manufacturing  facilities,  as well as at
various  other  United  States  and  international  locations.   Most  of  the
various  sites  around  the  world  that are used  exclusively  for  sales and
distribution are leased.

   DENTSPLY  believes that its properties  and facilities are well  maintained
and are  generally  suitable  and adequate for the purposes for which they are
used.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

   DENTSPLY and its subsidiaries are from time to time parties to lawsuits
arising out of their respective operations.  The Company believes it is
remote that pending litigation to which DENTSPLY is a party will have a
material adverse effect upon its consolidated financial position or results
of operations.

   In June 1995, the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of
Justice initiated an antitrust investigation regarding the policies and
conduct undertaken by the Company's Trubyte Division with respect to the
distribution of artificial teeth and related products.  On January 5, 1999,
the Department of Justice filed a complaint against the Company in the U.S.
District Court in Wilmington, Delaware alleging that the Company's tooth
distribution practices violate the antitrust laws and seeking an order for
the Company to discontinue its practices.  Three follow on private class
action suits on behalf of dentists, laboratories and denture patients in
seventeen states, respectively, who purchased Trubyte teeth or products
containing Trubyte teeth, were filed and transferred to the U.S. District
Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The class action filed on behalf of the
dentists has been dismissed by the plaintiffs.  The private party suits seek
damages in an unspecified amount.  The Court has granted the Company's
motion on the lack of standing of the laboratory and patient class actions
to pursue damage claims.  Four private party class actions on behalf of
indirect purchasers were filed in California state court.  These cases are
based on allegations similar to those in the Department of Justice case.  In
response to the Company's motion, these cases have been consolidated in one
Judicial District in Los Angeles.  A similar private party action has been
filed in Florida.  The trial in the government's case was held in April and
May 2002, the post-trial briefing  occurred during the summer and the final
arguments were made in September of 2002.  The case is pending a decision by
the Federal District Court Judge who heard the case.  It is the Company's
position that the conduct and activities of the Trubyte division do not
violate the antitrust laws.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   Not applicable.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The  following   table  sets  forth  certain   information   regarding  the
executive officers of the Company as of February 28, 2003.


Name                 Age                  Position

John C. Miles II          61              Chairman   of  the   Board  and
                                          Chief Executive Officer
Gerald K. Kunkle Jr.      56              President   and   Chief    Operating
                                          Officer
Thomas L. Whiting         60              Executive Vice President
Christopher T. Clark      41              Senior Vice President
William R. Jellison       45              Senior Vice President
Rudolf Lehner             45              Senior Vice President
James G. Mosch            46              Senior Vice President
J. Henrik Roos            45              Senior Vice President
W. William Weston         55              Senior Vice President
Bret W. Wise              42              Senior  Vice   President  and  Chief
                                          Financial Officer
Brian M. Addison          48              Vice   President,    Secretary   and
                                          General Counsel



D1
<PAGE>



   John C. Miles II was named  Chairman of the Board  effective  May 20, 1998.
Prior  thereto,  he was Vice  Chairman of the Board since  January 1, 1997. He
was named Chief  Executive  Officer of the  Company  upon the  resignation  of
Burton C.  Borgelt  from that  position  on January 1, 1996.  Prior to that he
was  President  and Chief  Operating  Officer  and a director  of the  Company
since the Merger.  Prior to that he served as  President  and Chief  Operating
Officer and a director of Old Dentsply commencing in January 1990.

   Gerald K.  Kunkle  Jr.  was named  President  and Chief  Operating  Officer
effective  January 1, 1997.  Prior thereto,  Mr. Kunkle served as President of
Johnson and  Johnson's  Vistakon  Division,  a  manufacturer  and  marketer of
contact  lenses,  from January 1994 and,  from early 1992 until  January 1994,
was President of Johnson and Johnson  Orthopaedics,  Inc., a  manufacturer  of
orthopaedic implants, fracture management products and trauma devices.

   Thomas L. Whiting was named  Executive  Vice President  effective  November
1,  2002  and  directly  oversees  the  following  operating  units:  DENTSPLY
Anesthetics,  DENTSPLY  Sankin  and ESP LLC.  In  addition,  he  oversees  the
groups  managed by Mr. Roos and Mr.  Weston.  Prior to this  appointment,  Mr.
Whiting  served  as Senior  Vice  President  since  early  1995.  Prior to his
Senior  Vice  President  appointment,  Mr.  Whiting  was  Vice  President  and
General  Manager of the Company's  L.D.  Caulk  Operating unit from March 1987
to early 1995.  Prior to that time,  Mr.  Whiting  held  management  positions
with Deseret Medical and the Parker-Davis Company.

    Christopher T. Clark was named Senior Vice President effective November
1, 2002 and oversees the following areas: business development and strategic
planning; North American Group Marketing and Administration; Alliance and
Government Sales; and the Ransom and Randolph operating unit.  Prior to this
appointment, Mr. Clark served as Vice President and General Manager of the
Gendex operating unit since June 1999.  Prior to that time, he served as
Vice President and General Manager of the Trubyte operating unit since July
of 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Clark was Director of Marketing of the Trubyte
Operating Unit since September 1992 when he started with the Company.

   William R. Jellison was named Senior Vice President  effective  November 1,
2002 and oversees the  following  operating  units:  DENTSPLY  Asia,  DENTSPLY
Professional,  Maillefer,  Tulsa Dental  Products and  Vereinigte  Dentalwerke
("VDW").  Prior to this  appointment,  Mr.  Jellison  served  as  Senior  Vice
President  and Chief  Financial  Officer  of the  Company  since  April  1998.
Prior to that time,  Mr.  Jellison  held the  position  of Vice  President  of
Finance,  Treasurer  and  Corporate  Controller  for Donnelly  Corporation  of
Holland,   Michigan  since  1994.   From  1991  to  1994,  Mr.   Jellison  was
Donnelly's  Vice  President of Financial  Operations,  Treasurer and Corporate
Controller.  Prior to that,  he served  one year as  Treasurer  and  Corporate
Controller  and in other  financial  management  positions for  Donnelly.  Mr.
Jellison is a Certified Management Accountant.

   Rudolf Lehner was named Senior Vice President  effective  December 12, 2001
and oversees the following  operating units:  Degussa Dental Germany,  Degussa
Dental  Austria and Elephant  Dental.  Prior to that time, Mr Lehner was Chief
Operating  Officer of Degussa  Dental since  mid-2000.  From 1999 to mid 2000,
he had the overall  responsibilities  for Sales & Marketing at Degussa Dental.
From 1994 to 1999,  Mr.  Lehner held the position of Chief  Executive  Officer
of  Elephant  Dental.  From 1990 to 1994,  he had overall  responsibility  for
international  activities  at Degussa  Dental.  Prior to that,  Mr Lehner held
various  positions  at  Degussa  Dental  and its  parent,  Degussa  AG,  since
starting in 1984.

   James G. Mosch was named Senior Vice President  effective  November 1, 2002
and oversees the  following  operating  units:  DENTSPLY  Australia,  DENTSPLY
Brazil, DENTSPLY Canada,  DENTSPLY Latin America,  DENTSPLY Mexico, Gendex and
Rinn.  Prior to this  appointment,  Mr.  Mosch  served as Vice  President  and
General  Manager of the DENTSPLY  Professional  operating unit since July 1994
when he started with the Company.

   J. Henrik Roos was named Senior Vice  President  effective June 1, 1999 and
oversees the following operating units: Ceramco,  CeraMed,  Friadent, GAC, and
Trubyte.  Prior to his Senior Vice President  appointment,  Mr. Roos served as
Vice  President  and General  Manager of the  Company's  Gendex  division from
June  1995 to June  1999.  Prior to that,  he served  as  President  of Gendex
European  operations  in  Frankfurt,  Germany  since  joining  the  Company in
August 1993.

   W. William  Weston was named  Senior Vice  President  effective  January 1,
1996 and oversees the following  operating  units:  DeDent,  DENTSPLY  France,
DENTSPLY Italy,  DENTSPLY  Russia,  DENTSPLY United Kingdom,  L.D. Caulk,  and
Middle  East/Africa.  Prior to his  Senior  Vice  President  appointment,  Mr.
Weston served as the Vice President and General  Manager of DENTSPLY's  DeDent
Operations  in Europe from  October 1, 1990 to January 1, 1996.  Prior to that
time he was Pharmaceutical Director for Pfizer in Germany.



D1
<PAGE>



   Bret W. Wise was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of the Company effective December 1, 2002. Prior to that time, Mr. Wise was
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with Ferro Corporation of
Cleveland, OH. Prior to joining Ferro Corporate in 1999, Mr. Wise held the
position of Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at WCI Steel, Inc.,
of Warren, OH, from 1994 to 1999. Prior to joining WCI Steel, Inc., Mr. Wise
was a partner with KPMG LLP. Mr. Wise is a Certified Public Accountant.

   Brian M. Addison has been Vice  President,  Secretary  and General  Counsel
of the  Company  since  January  1,  1998.  Prior  to  that  he was  Assistant
Secretary  and  Corporate  Counsel since  December  1994.  From August 1994 to
December  1994 he was a Partner at the  Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania  law firm of
McNees,  Wallace & Nurick.  Prior to that he was  Senior  Counsel  at  Hershey
Foods Corporation.

                                   PART II

Item 5.  Market for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related  Stockholder
Matters

   The   information   set  forth  under  the  caption   "Supplemental   Stock
Information"   in  the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to   Shareholders  is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   The  information set forth under the caption  "Selected  Financial Data" in
the Company's 2002 Annual Report to  Shareholders  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations

   The  information set forth under the caption  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations"  in the Company's
2002 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

   The information set forth under the caption  "Quantitative  and Qualitative
Disclosure  About  Market  Risk"  in  the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The  information  set forth  under  the  captions  "Management's  Financial
Responsibility,"   "Report   of   Independent   Accountants,"    "Consolidated
Statements   of  Income,"   "Consolidated   Balance   Sheets,"   "Consolidated
Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity,"   "Consolidated   Statements  of  Cash
Flows," and "Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements"  in the  Company's
2002 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9. Changes in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

   Not applicable.

                                   PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The  information  (i) set forth  under the caption  "Executive  Officers of
the  Registrant"  in Part I of this  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K and (ii) set
forth  under  the  captions   "Election  of  Directors"   and  "Section  16(a)
Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance"  in the 2003 Proxy  Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.



D1
<PAGE>



Item 11.  Executive Compensation

   The information  set forth under the caption  "Executive  Compensation"  in
the 2003 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security  Ownership of Certain  Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters

   The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption  "Security  Ownership  of
Certain  Beneficial  Owners and  Management"  in the 2003 Proxy  Statement  is
incorporated herein by reference.

Securities Authorized For Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

      The following table provides  information at December 31, 2002 regarding
compensation   plans  and  arrangements   under  which  equity  securities  of
DENTSPLY are authorized for issuance.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                   Number of securities
                                            Number of securities            Weighted average       securities remaining
                                             to be issued upon                exercise price     available for future issuance
                                                exercise of                   of outstanding      under equity compensation
                                            outstanding options,            options, warrants     plans (excluding securities
                                             warrants and rights                and rights           reflected in column (a))
                                                    (a)                           (b)                          (c)

<S>                                           <C>                             <C>                         <C>
Equity compensation plans approved
  by security holders (1)                       7,646,589                        24.56                     7,253,405 (2)

Equity compensation plans not approved
  by security holders (3)                          45,000                        14.83                           n/a

Other equity compensation plans not approved
  by security holders (4)                         108,147                          n/a                           n/a

Total                                           7,799,736

<FN>
(1)   Consists of the  DENTSPLY  International  Inc.  1993 Stock  Option Plan,
      1998 Stock Option Plan and 2002 Stock Option Plan.

(2)   The  maximum  number of shares  available  for  issuance  under the 2002
      Stock Option Plan is  7,000,000  shares of common stock (plus any shares
      of common  stock  covered  by any  unexercised  portion of  canceled  or
      terminated  stock  options  granted  under the 1993 Stock Option Plan or
      1998 Stock  Option  Plan) (the  "Maximum  Number").  The Maximum  Number
      shall be  increased on January 1 of each  calendar  year during the term
      of the 2002 Stock Option Plan to equal 7% of the  outstanding  shares of
      common stock on such date, prior to such increase.

(3)   Consists of the Burton C. Borgelt  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement
      as further described below.

(4)   See below for a  description  of the  Directors'  Deferred  Compensation
      Plan and the  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement Plan pursuant to which
      shares of common  stock may be issued to outside  directors  and certain
      management employees.
</FN>
</TABLE>



Burton C. Borgelt Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement

   On January 13, 1994,  the Company  entered an agreement  with Mr. Burton C.
Borgelt  granting  Mr.  Borgelt  an option  to  acquire  45,000  shares of the
Company's  common  stock at the  exercise  price of  $14.83  (as  effected  by
subsequent  stock  dividends).  At the  time of the  grant,  Mr.  Borgelt  was
serving as the Company's  Chairman of its Board of  Directors.  The option was
granted  to  provide  an  additional  incentive  to Mr.  Borgelt to devote his
efforts to the future success of the Company.





D1
<PAGE>



Directors Deferred Compensation Plan

      Effective  January  1,  1997,  the  Company   established  a  Directors'
Deferred  Compensation Plan (the "Deferred  Plan").  The Deferred Plan permits
non-employee  directors to elect to defer  receipt of directors  fees or other
compensation  for their  services as  directors.  Non-employee  directors  can
elect to have their  deferred  payments  administered  as a cash with interest
account  or a stock  unit  account.  Distributions  to a  director  under  the
Deferred  Plan  will  not be  made  to any  non-employee  director  until  the
non-employee  director  ceases to be a member of the Board of Directors.  Upon
ceasing to be a member of the Board of  Directors,  the deferred  non-employee
director  fees are paid based on an earlier  election  to have their  accounts
distributed immediately or in annual installments for up to ten (10) years.

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

      Effective  January  1,  1999,  the  Board of  Directors  of the  Company
adopted a Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan (the "Plan").  The purpose
of the Plan is to provide additional  retirement  benefits for a limited group
of  management   employees  whom  the  Board   concluded  were  not  receiving
competitive  retirement  benefits.  No  actual  benefits  are  put  aside  for
participants  and the  participants  are general  creditors of the Company for
payment of the  benefits  upon  retirement  or  termination  from the Company.
Participants  can elect to have these  benefits  administered  as an  interest
bearing  cash  or  stock  unit  account.  Upon   retirement/termination,   the
participant  is paid  the  benefits  in  their  account  based  on an  earlier
election  to  have  their  accounts  distributed   immediately  or  in  annual
installments for up to five (5) years.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   No relationships or transactions are required to be reported.


Item 14.  Controls and Procedures


(a)   As of March 12, 2003, the Company carried out an evaluation under the
      supervision and with the participation of the Company's management,
      including the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chief Financial
      Officer ("CFO"), of the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure
      controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO
      concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures have
      been designed and are functioning effectively to provide reasonable
      assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company
      in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
      processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
      Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. A controls system,
      no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute
      assurance that the objectives of the controls systems are met, and no
      evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control
      issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been
      detected.

(b)   Subsequent  to the date of the most recent  evaluation  of the Company's
      internal  controls,  there were no significant  changes in the Company's
      internal  controls,  including  any  corrective  actions  with regard to
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.



D1
<PAGE>



                                   PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)   Documents filed as part of this Report

      1    Financial Statements

      The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the  Company set
      forth  in  the  Company's  2002  Annual  Report  to   Shareholders   are
      incorporated herein by reference:

      Report of Independent Accountants
      Consolidated  Statements of Income - Years ended December 31, 2002, 2001
      and 2000
      Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2002 and 2001
      Consolidated  Statements of Stockholders'  Equity - Years ended December
      31, 2002, 2001 and 2000
      Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended  December 31, 2002,
      2001 and 2000
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

      2    Financial Statement Schedules

      The   following   financial   statement   schedule  and  the  Report  of
      Independent  Accountants  on Financial  Statement  Schedule are filed as
      part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

      Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule
      Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

      All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is made in the  applicable
      accounting  regulations of the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission are
      not  required to be included  herein under the related  instructions  or
      are inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted.



D1
<PAGE>



   3  Exhibits.  The  Exhibits  listed  below  are  filed or  incorporated  by
reference as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Exhibit
Number                       Description
<S>        <C>
3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation (17)
3.2        By-Laws, as amended (16)
4.1.  (a)  United States Commercial Paper Issuing and paying Agency Agreement dated as of August 12,1999 between
           the Company and the Chase Manhattan Bank. (13)
      (b)  United States Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of March 28, 2002 between the Company and
           Salomon Smith Barney Inc.
      (c)  United States Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of April 30, 2002 between the Company and
           Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation.
      (d)  Euro Commercial Paper Note Agreement dated as of July 18, 2002 between the Company and
           Citibank International plc.
      (e)  Euro Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of July 18, 2002  between the Company and Citibank
           International plc and Credit Suisse First Boston (Europe) Limited.
4.2   (a)  Note Agreement (governing Series A, Series B and Series C Notes) dated March 1, 2001 between the
           Company and Prudential Insurance Company of America. (14)
      (b)  First Amendment to Note Agreement dated September 1, 2001 between the Company and Prudential
           Insurance Company of America. (16)
4.3   (a)  5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001
           among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V
           as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as
           Documentation Agents. (16)
      (b)  364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001
           among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V
           as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as
           Documentation Agents. (16)
      (c)  Amendment to the 5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as
           of May 25, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein,
           the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust
           and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.
      (d)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated
           as of May 25, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein,
           the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust
           and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.
      (e)  Amendment to the 5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as
           of August 30, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the
           ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and
           Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.
      (f)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as
           of August 30, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the
           ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and
           Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.
      (g)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated
           as of May 24, 2002 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein,
           the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust
           and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.
4.4        Private placement note dated December 28, 2001 between the Company and Massachusetts Mutual Life
           Insurance Company and Nationwide Life Insurance Company. (16)
4.5   (a)  Eurobonds Agency Agreement dated December 13, 2001 between the Company and Citibank, N.A. (16)
      (b)  Eurobond Subscription Agreement dated December 11, 2001 between the Company and Credit Suisse
           First Boston (Europe) Limited, UBS AG, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., First Union Securities, Inc.; and
           Tokyo-Mitsubishi International plc (the Managers). (16)
</TABLE>



D1
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<S>        <C>
      (c)  Pages 4 through 16 of the Company's Eurobond Offering Circular dated December 11, 2001. (16)
10.1       1993 Stock Option Plan (2)
10.2       1998 Stock Option Plan (1)
10.3       2002 Stock Option Plan (17)
10.4       Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement between the Company and Burton C. Borgelt (3)
10.5       Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended, restated as of January 1, 1997
10.6  (a)  Trust Agreement for the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan between the Company
           and T. Rowe Price Trust Company dated as of November 1, 2000. (14)
      (b)  Plan Recordkeeping Agreement for the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan between
           the Company and T. Rowe Price Trust Company dated as of November 1, 2000. (14)
10.7  (a)  Employment Agreement dated as of December 31, 1987 between the Company and John C. Miles II (5)*
      (b)  Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and John C. Miles II dated
           February 16, 1996, effective January 1, 1996 (9)*
10.8       Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1996 between the Company and W. William Weston (9)*
10.9       Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1996 between the Company and Thomas L. Whiting (9)*
10.10      Employment Agreement dated October 11,1996 between the Company and Gerald K. Kunkle Jr. (10)*
10.11      Employment Agreement dated April 20, 1998 between the Company and William R. Jellison  (12)*
10.12      Employment Agreement dated September 10, 1998 between the Company and Brian M. Addison (12)*
10.13      Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1999 between the Company and J. Henrik Roos (13)*
10.14      Employment Agreement dated October 1, 2001 between the Company and Rudolf Lehner (16)*
10.15      Employment Agreement dated November 1, 2002 between the Company and Christopher T. Clark*
10.16      Employment Agreement dated November 1, 2002 between the Company and James G. Mosch*
10.17      Employment Agreement dated December 1, 2002 between the Company and Bret W. Wise*
10.18      DENTSPLY International Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan effective
           January 1, 1997 (10)*
10.19      Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1999 (12)*
10.20      Written Description of Year 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan.
10.21 (a)  AZLAD Products Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB and
           Maillefer Instruments Holdings, S.A. (a subsidiary of the Company). (14)
      (b)  AZLAD Products Manufacturing Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB
           and Maillefer Instruments Holdings, S.A. (14)
      (c)  AZ Trade Marks License Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB
           and Maillefer Instruments Holdings, S.A. (14)
10.22      Degussa Dental Group Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated May 28/29, 2001 between
           Degussa AG (Seller) and Dentsply Hanau GmbH & Co. KG, Dentsply Research & Development
           Corporation and Dentsply EU S.a.r.l. (Purchasers and subsidiaries of the Company). (15)
10.23 (a)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated November 30, 2001 between
           Fleet Precious Metal Inc. and the Company. (16)
      (b)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between
           JPMorgan Chase Bank and the Company. (16)
      (c)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between
           Mitsui & Co., Precious Metals Inc. and the Company. (16)
13         Pages 9 through 47 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2002
           (only those portions of the Annual Report incorporated by reference in this report
           are deemed "filed")
21.1       Subsidiaries of the Company
23.1       Consent of Independent Accountants - PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
99.1       Chief Executive Officer Certification Statement.
99.2       Chief Financial Officer Certification Statement.
</TABLE>


 *    Management contract or compensatory plan.



D1
<PAGE>



(1)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-56093).

(2)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-71792).

(3)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-79094).

(4)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-52616).

(5)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31,  1993,  File No.
      0-16211.

(6)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1993,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(7)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year  December  31,  1994,  File No.
      0-16211.

(8)   Incorporated by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated January 10, 1996, File No. 0-16211.

(9)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1995,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(10)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1996,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(11)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1997,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(12)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1998,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(13)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1999,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(14)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  2000,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(15)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2001,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(16)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  2001,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(17)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-101548).





D1
<PAGE>




                                Loan Documents

   The Company and  certain of its  subsidiaries  have  entered  into  various
loan  and  credit   agreements  and  issued  various   promissory   notes  and
guaranties of such notes,  listed below,  the  aggregate  principal  amount of
which is less than 10% of its  assets on a  consolidated  basis.  The  Company
has not filed  copies of such  documents  but  undertakes  to  provide  copies
thereof  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission   supplementally  upon
request.

      (1)  Master Grid Note dated  November  4, 1996  executed in favor of The
      Chase  Manhattan  Bank  in  connection  with  a  line  of  credit  up to
      $20,000,000 between the Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank.

      (2)  Agreement  dated  June  13,  2001  between  Midland  Bank  PLC  and
      Dentsply  Limited for GBP  3,000,000  overdraft and  $2,000,000  foreign
      exchange facility.

      (3)   Agreement  dated  June  21,  2001  in  the  principal   amount  of
      $6,000,000  between  Dentsply  Research and Development  Corp, Hong Kong
      Branch and Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi.

      (4)  Form of "comfort  letters" to various  foreign  commercial  lending
      institutions  having  a  lending  relationship  with  one or more of the
      Company's international subsidiaries.


(b)   Reports on Form 8-K

      None




D1
<PAGE>


                     Report of Independent Accountants on
                         Financial Statement Schedule


To the Board of Directors of
DENTSPLY International Inc.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated January 23, 2003 appearing in the 2002 Annual Report to
Shareholders of DENTSPLY International Inc. (which report and consolidated
financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed
in Item 15(a) 2 of this Form 10-K.  In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, PA
January 23, 2003




D1
<PAGE>



SCHEDULE II

<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC.
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002
<CAPTION>


                                                              Additions
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                      Charged
                                     Balance at     (Credited)       Charged to          Write-offs                        Balance
                                     Beginning       To Costs          Other               Net of        Translation       at End
Description                          of Period     And Expenses       Accounts           Recoveries      Adjustment       of Period
                                                                         (in thousands)

<S>                                  <C>             <C>              <C>               <C>               <C>            <C>
Allowance for doubtful accounts:

For Year Ended December 31,
                         2000         $ 8,152           $ 397             $ 34  (a)       $ (2,078)         $ (145)        $ 6,360
                         2001           6,360           2,844            5,289  (b)         (1,638)           (253)         12,602
                         2002          12,602           2,904            3,560  (c)         (1,987)          1,413          18,492

Allowance for trade discounts:

For Year Ended December 31,
                         2000           1,388           1,318                -              (1,031)            (46)          1,629
                         2001           1,629             555                -              (1,194)            (77)            913
                         2002             913             988                -                (871)             61           1,091

Inventory valuation reserves:

For Year Ended December 31,
                         2000          15,364           5,584               52  (d)         (5,741)           (317)         14,942
                         2001          14,942           4,369            8,409  (e)         (2,996)           (365)         24,359
                         2002          24,359           4,855            4,671  (f)         (5,581)          2,366          30,670
------------------

<FN>
(a) Includes $34 from acquisition of Midwest Orthodontic Manufacturing.
(b) Includes $389 from acquisition of Friadent and $4,900 from acquisition of Degussa Dental.
(c) Includes $797 from acquisition of Austenal and $2,763 related to the acquisition of Degussa Dental.
(d) Includes $52 from acquisition of Midwest Orthodontic Manufacturing.
(e) Includes $1,580 from acquisition of Friadent and $6,829 from acquisition of Degussa Dental.
(f) Includes $588 from acquisition of Austenal and $4,083 related to the acquisition of Degussa Dental.
</FN>
</TABLE>




D1
<PAGE>


                           SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC.


                                   By:/s/ John C. Miles II
                                      -----------------------
                                      John C. Miles II
                                      Chairman of the Board
                                      and Chief Executive Officer

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


/s/ John C. Miles II                                         March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
John C. Miles II                                               Date
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer and a Director
(Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ Gerald K. Kunkle                                         March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Gerald K. Kunkle                                               Date
President and Chief
Operating Officer and a Director


/s/ Bret W. Wise                                             March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Bret W. Wise                                                   Date
Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)


/s/ Dr. Michael C. Alfano                                    March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Dr. Michael C. Alfano                                          Date
Director



/s/ Burton C. Borgelt                                        March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Burton C. Borgelt                                              Date
Director





D1
<PAGE>



/s/ Paula H. Cholmondeley                                    March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Paula H. Cholmondeley                                          Date
Director


/s/ Michael J. Coleman                                       March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Michael J. Coleman                                             Date
Director


/s/ William F. Hecht                                         March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
William F. Hecht                                               Date
Director


/s/ Leslie A. Jones                                          March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Leslie A. Jones                                                Date
Director


/s/ Betty Jane Scheihing                                     March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Betty Jane Scheihing                                           Date
Director


/s/Edgar H. Schollmaier                                      March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
Edgar H. Schollmaier                                           Date
Director


/s/ W. Keith Smith                                           March 28, 2003
-------------------------                                 --------------------
W. Keith Smith                                                 Date
Director



D1
<PAGE>


Section 302 Certifications Statement


I, John C. Miles II, certify that:


1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of DENTSPLY International
Inc.;


2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;


3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;


4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the
Evaluation Date;


5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal controls;
and


6. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any
corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses.


Date: March 28, 2003


/s/  John C. Miles II
     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer



D1
<PAGE>


Section 302 Certifications Statement


I, Bret W. Wise, certify that:


1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of DENTSPLY International
Inc.;


2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;


3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;


4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the
Evaluation Date;


5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal controls;
and


6. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any
corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses.


Date: March 28, 2003


/s/  Bret W. Wise
     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


D1
<PAGE>


EXHIBIT INDEX
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Exhibit                                                                                                               Exhibit
Number                             Description                                                                       Reference
<S>        <C>                                                                                                       <C>
3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation (17)
3.2        By-Laws, as amended (16)
4.1.  (a)  United States Commercial Paper Issuing and paying Agency Agreement dated as of August 12,1999 between
           the Company and the Chase Manhattan Bank. (13)
      (b)  United States Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of March 28, 2002 between the Company and
           Salomon Smith Barney Inc.                                                                                    D2
      (c)  United States Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of April 30, 2002 between the Company and
           Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation.                                                                      D3
      (d)  Euro Commercial Paper Note Agreement dated as of July 18, 2002 between the Company and
           Citibank International plc.                                                                                  D4
      (e)  Euro Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of July 18, 2002  between the Company and Citibank
           International plc and Credit Suisse First Boston (Europe) Limited.                                           D5
4.2   (a)  Note Agreement (governing Series A, Series B and Series C Notes) dated March 1, 2001 between the
           Company and Prudential Insurance Company of America. (14)
      (b)  First Amendment to Note Agreement dated September 1, 2001 between the Company and Prudential
           Insurance Company of America. (16)
4.3   (a)  5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001
           among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V
           as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as
           Documentation Agents. (16)
      (b)  364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001
           among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V
           as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as
           Documentation Agents. (16)
      (c)  Amendment to the 5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as
           of May 25, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein,
           the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust
           and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.                                                                    D6
      (d)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated
           as of May 25, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein,
           the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust
           and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.                                                                    D7
      (e)  Amendment to the 5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as
           of August 30, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the
           ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and
           Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.                                                                        D8
      (f)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as
           of August 30, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the
           ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and
           Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.                                                                        D9
      (g)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated
           as of May 24, 2002 among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein,
           the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust
           and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.                                                                    D10
4.4        Private placement note dated December 28, 2001 between the Company and Massachusetts Mutual Life
           Insurance Company and Nationwide Life Insurance Company. (16)
4.5   (a)  Eurobonds Agency Agreement dated December 13, 2001 between the Company and Citibank, N.A. (16)
      (b)  Eurobond Subscription Agreement dated December 11, 2001 between the Company and Credit Suisse
           First Boston (Europe) Limited, UBS AG, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., First Union Securities, Inc.; and
           Tokyo-Mitsubishi International plc (the Managers). (16)
</TABLE>



D1
<PAGE>


<TABLE>

<S>        <C>                                                                                                       <C>

      (c)  Pages 4 through 16 of the Company's Eurobond Offering Circular dated December 11, 2001. (16)
10.1       1993 Stock Option Plan (2)
10.2       1998 Stock Option Plan (1)
10.3       2002 Stock Option Plan (17)
10.4       Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement between the Company and Burton C. Borgelt (3)
10.5       Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended, restated as of January 1, 1997                                    D11
10.6  (a)  Trust Agreement for the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan between the Company
           and T. Rowe Price Trust Company dated as of November 1, 2000. (14)
      (b)  Plan Recordkeeping Agreement for the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan between
           the Company and T. Rowe Price Trust Company dated as of November 1, 2000. (14)
10.7  (a)  Employment Agreement dated as of December 31, 1987 between the Company and John C. Miles II (5)*
      (b)  Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and John C. Miles II dated
           February 16, 1996, effective January 1, 1996 (9)*
10.8       Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1996 between the Company and W. William Weston (9)*
10.9       Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1996 between the Company and Thomas L. Whiting (9)*
10.10      Employment Agreement dated October 11,1996 between the Company and Gerald K. Kunkle Jr. (10)*
10.11      Employment Agreement dated April 20, 1998 between the Company and William R. Jellison  (12)*
10.12      Employment Agreement dated September 10, 1998 between the Company and Brian M. Addison (12)*
10.13      Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1999 between the Company and J. Henrik Roos (13)*
10.14      Employment Agreement dated October 1, 2001 between the Company and Rudolf Lehner (16)*
10.15      Employment Agreement dated November 1, 2002 between the Company and Christopher T. Clark*                    D12
10.16      Employment Agreement dated November 1, 2002 between the Company and James G. Mosch*                          D13
10.17      Employment Agreement dated December 1, 2002 between the Company and Bret W. Wise*                            D14
10.18      DENTSPLY International Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan effective
           January 1, 1997 (10)*
10.19      Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1999 (12)*
10.20      Written Description of Year 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan.                                                D15
10.21 (a)  AZLAD Products Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB and
           Maillefer Instruments Holdings, S.A. (a subsidiary of the Company). (14)
      (b)  AZLAD Products Manufacturing Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB
           and Maillefer Instruments Holdings, S.A. (14)
      (c)  AZ Trade Marks License Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB
           and Maillefer Instruments Holdings, S.A. (14)
10.22      Degussa Dental Group Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated May 28/29, 2001 between
           Degussa AG (Seller) and Dentsply Hanau GmbH & Co. KG, Dentsply Research & Development
           Corporation and Dentsply EU S.a.r.l. (Purchasers and subsidiaries of the Company). (15)
10.23 (a)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated November 30, 2001 between
           Fleet Precious Metal Inc. and the Company. (16)
      (b)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between
           JPMorgan Chase Bank and the Company. (16)
      (c)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between
           Mitsui & Co., Precious Metals Inc. and the Company. (16)
13         Pages 9 through 47 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2002
           (only those portions of the Annual Report incorporated by reference in this report
           are deemed "filed")                                                                                          D16
21.1       Subsidiaries of the Company                                                                                  D17
23.1       Consent of Independent Accountants - PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP                                              D18
99.1       Chief Executive Officer Certification Statement.                                                             D19
99.2       Chief Financial Officer Certification Statement.                                                             D20
</TABLE>


D1
<PAGE>



(1)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-56093).

(2)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-71792).

(3)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-79094).

(4)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-52616).

(5)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31,  1993,  File No.
      0-16211.

(6)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1993,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(7)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year  December  31,  1994,  File No.
      0-16211.

(8)   Incorporated by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated January 10, 1996, File No. 0-16211.

(9)   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1995,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(10)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1996,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(11)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1997,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(12)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1998,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(13)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  1999,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(14)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  2000,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(15)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2001,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(16)  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  included in the Company's  Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  2001,  File
      No. 0-16211.

(17)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the  Company's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-101548).

D1

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
