<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>f102003.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>
                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C. 20549

                             FORM 10-K

            FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT
  TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      (Mark One)
      [ X ]ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003

                                OR

      [   ]TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
        THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE                   ACT OF 1934
           For the transition period from __________ to ___________

                  Commission file number 0-16211

                    DENTSPLY International Inc.
      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                      Delaware               39-143466
          (State or other jurisdiction of   (IRS Employer
       incorporation or organization)       Identification No.)

    221 West Philadelphia Street, York, Pennsylvania   17405-0872
        (Address of principal executive offices)      (Zip code)

Registrant's   telephone   number,   including  area  code:   (717)
845-7511

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

       Title of each class     Name of each exchange on which registered

              None                           Not applicable

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

              Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                         (Title of class)

      Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant  (1) has filed
all  reports  required  to be filed by  Section  13 or 15(d) of the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934  during the  preceding  12 months
(or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was required to
file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]    No [ ]




<PAGE>





      Indicate by check mark if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
pursuant to Item 405 of  Regulation  S-K is not  contained  herein,
and will not be contained,  to the best of registrant's  knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or  information  statements  incorporated  by
reference  in Part III of this Form 10-K or any  amendment  to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

      Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the   registrant   is  an
accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
Yes [X]    No [ ]

      The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 28, 2002 was
$2,827,512,659.



      The  number  of  shares  of  the  registrant's  Common  Stock
outstanding  as of the  close of  business  on  March  1,  2004 was
80,239,253.

                DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      Certain   portions  of  the  definitive  Proxy  Statement  of
DENTSPLY  International  Inc.  to be used in  connection  with  the
2004 Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  (the "Proxy  Statement")  are
incorporated  by reference  into Part III of this Annual  Report on
Form 10-K to the extent  provided  herein.  Except as  specifically
incorporated  by  reference  herein  the  Proxy  Statement  is  not
deemed to be filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


<PAGE>


                              PART I
Item 1.  Business

   Certain  statements  made  by  the  Company,  including  without
limitation,    statements    containing    the    words    "plans",
"anticipates",  "believes",  "expects",  or words of similar import
may  be  deemed  to be  forward-looking  statements  and  are  made
pursuant to the safe harbor  provisions  of the Private  Securities
Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995.  Investors  are  cautioned  that
forward-looking  statements  involve risks and uncertainties  which
are  described in this Item 1 and which may  materially  affect the
Company's business and prospects.

History and Overview

   DENTSPLY  International  Inc.  ("DENTSPLY" or the "Company"),  a
Delaware   corporation,   was  created  by  a  merger  of  Dentsply
International  Inc.  ("Old  Dentsply")  and GENDEX  Corporation  in
1993.  Old  Dentsply,  founded  in  1899,  was a  manufacturer  and
distributor  of  artificial  teeth,  dental  equipment,  and dental
consumable  products.  GENDEX,  founded in 1983, was a manufacturer
of dental x-ray  equipment  and  handpieces.  On December 11, 2003,
the Company  entered into a definitive  agreement to sell the x-ray
equipment  business  of the prior  GENDEX  Corporation  to  Danaher
Corporation  for $102.5  million  which was  completed  on February
27, 2004.  Reference is made to the information about  discontinued
operations  set  forth  in  Note 6 of  the  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

   DENTSPLY   is   the   world's   largest   designer,   developer,
manufacturer  and  marketer of a broad  range of  products  for the
dental market. The Company's  worldwide  headquarters and executive
offices are located in York, Pennsylvania.

   The Company  operates  within  five  operating  segments  all of
which  are  primarily  engaged  in  the  design,   manufacture  and
distribution of dental products in three principal  categories:  1)
Dental  consumables,   2)  Dental  laboratory   products,   and  3)
Specialty dental  products.  Sales of the Company's dental products
accounted for  approximately 98% of DENTSPLY's  consolidated  sales
for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2003.  The  remaining  2%  of
consolidated  sales is primarily  related to materials  sold to the
investment casting industry.

   The  Company   conducts   its   business  in  over  120  foreign
countries,    principally   through   its   foreign   subsidiaries.
DENTSPLY  has a  long-established  presence  in  Canada  and in the
European  market,  particularly  in Germany,  Switzerland,  France,
Italy and the United  Kingdom.  The Company also has a  significant
market  presence in Central  and South  America  including  Brazil,
Mexico,  Argentina,  Colombia,  and Chile; in South Africa;  and in
the  Pacific  Rim   including   Australia,   New   Zealand,   China
(including  Hong  Kong),  Thailand,  India,  Philippines,   Taiwan,
Korea,   Vietnam,   Indonesia   and   Japan.   DENTSPLY   has  also
established  marketing  activities  in Moscow,  Russia to serve the
countries of the former Soviet Union.

   For 2003,  2002,  and 2001,  the  Company's  sales to  customers
outside the United States,  including  export sales,  accounted for
approximately 58%, 56% and 39%,  respectively,  of consolidated net
sales.  Reference is made to the  information  about the  Company's
United States and foreign  sales by shipment  origin and assets set
forth in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

   As  a  result  of  the   Company's   significant   international
operations,  DENTSPLY is subject to  fluctuations in exchange rates
of various  foreign  currencies  and other  risks  associated  with
foreign  trade.  The impact of currency  fluctuations  in any given
period  can be  favorable  or  unfavorable.  The  impact of foreign
currency  fluctuations of European  currencies on operating  income
is  partially  offset by sales in the  United  States  of  products
sourced  from plants and third party  suppliers  located  overseas,
principally  in Germany and  Switzerland.  The Company  enters into
forward  foreign  exchange  contracts to selectively  hedge assets,
liabilities  and  purchases   denominated  in  foreign  currencies.
Reference is made to the  information  regarding  foreign  exchange
risk   management   activities  set  forth  in   Quantitative   and
Qualitative  Disclosure  About  Market  Risk under Item 7A and Note
17 of the  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.


<PAGE>



   DENTSPLY believes that the dental products industry is
experiencing substantial consolidation with respect to both
product manufacturing and distribution, although it continues to
be fragmented creating numerous acquisition opportunities. As a
result, during the past three years, the Company has made
numerous acquisitions including three significant acquisitions
made during 2001. In January 2001, the Company acquired the
outstanding shares of Friadent GmbH ("Friadent"), a global dental
implant manufacturer and marketer previously headquartered in
Mannheim, Germany. In March 2001, the Company acquired the dental
injectible anaesthetic assets of AstraZeneca ("AZ Assets"). The
assets acquired in the business consisted primarily of an
exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free licensing rights to the dental
products and tradenames.  In addition, certain limited equipment
was acquired, but no production facilities were acquired as part
of the transaction.  In October 2001, the Company acquired the
Degussa Dental Group ("Degussa Dental"), a manufacturer and
seller of dental products, including precious metal alloys,
ceramics, dental laboratory equipment and chairside products
previously headquartered in Hanau, Germany. Information about
these acquisitions and other acquisition and divestiture
activities is set forth in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's 2003 Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.  These
acquisitions are intended to supplement DENTSPLY's core growth
and assure ongoing expansion of its business. In addition,
acquisitions have provided DENTSPLY with new technologies and
additional product breadth.

   Certain provisions of DENTSPLY's Certificate of Incorporation
and By-laws and of Delaware law could have the effect of making
it difficult for a third party to acquire control of DENTSPLY.
Such provisions include the division of the Board of Directors of
DENTSPLY into three classes, with the three-year term of a class
expiring each year, a provision allowing the Board of Directors
to issue preferred stock having rights senior to those of the
common stock and certain procedural requirements which make it
difficult for stockholders to amend DENTSPLY's By-laws and call
special meetings of stockholders. In addition, members of
DENTSPLY's management and participants in its Employee Stock
Ownership Plan collectively own approximately 10% of the
outstanding common stock of DENTSPLY, which may discourage a
third party from attempting to acquire control of DENTSPLY in a
transaction that is opposed by DENTSPLY's management and
employees.

Principal Products

     The worldwide professional dental industry encompasses the diagnosis,
treatment and prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and
supporting bone. DENTSPLY's principal dental product categories are dental
consumables, dental laboratory products and dental specialty products. These
products are produced by the Company in the United States and internationally
and are distributed throughout the world under some of the most well-established
brand names and trademarks in the industry, including ANKYLOS(R), AQUASIL(TM),
CAULK(R), CAVITRON(R), CERAMCO(R), CERCON(R), CITANEST(R), DELTON(R),
DENTSPLY(R), DETREY(R), ELEPHANT(R), ESTHET.X(R), FRIALIT(R), GAC
ORTHOWORKS(TM), GOLDEN GATE(R), IN-OVATION(TM), MAILLEFER(R), MIDWEST(R),
MYSTIQUE(TM), NUPRO(R), PEPGEN P-15(TM), POLOCAINE(R), PROFILE(R), PROTAPER(TM),
RINN(R), R&R(R), SANI-TIP(R), THERMAFIL(R), TRUBYTE(R) and XYLOCAINE(R).

Dental   Consumables.   Consumable   products   consist  of  dental
sundries  used in dental  offices in the  treatment  of patient and
small  equipment  used  by  the  dental  professional.   DENTSPLY's
products in this category include dental  anesthetics,  prophylaxis
paste,   dental   sealants,   impression   materials,   restorative
materials,  tooth  whiteners,  and  topical  fluoride.  The Company
manufactures  thousands of different  consumable  products marketed
under more than a hundred  brand names.  Small  equipment  products
consist  of  various  durable  goods  used in  dental  offices  for
treatment  of  patients.   DENTSPLY's   small  equipment   products
include  high and low  speed  handpieces,  intraoral  curing  light
systems  and  ultrasonic  scalers and  polishers.  Sales of general
dental   consumables   accounted  for   approximately  35%  of  the
Company's consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Dental  Laboratory  Products.   Laboratory  products  are  used  in
dental  laboratories  in  the  preparation  of  dental  appliances.
DENTSPLY's  products in this category  include dental  prosthetics,
including  artificial teeth,  precious metal dental alloys,  dental
ceramics,  and crown  and  bridge  materials.  Small  equipment  in
this category  includes  computer  aided  machining  (CAM) ceramics
systems  and  porcelain   furnaces.   Sales  of  dental  laboratory
products   accounted  for   approximately   33%  of  the  Company's
consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2003.


<PAGE>



Dental  Specialty  Products.  Specialty  dental  products  are used
for  specific  purposes  within  the dental  office and  laboratory
settings.    DENTSPLY's   products   in   this   category   include
endodontic (root canal)  instruments and materials,  implants,  and
orthodontic   appliances  and   accessories.   Sales  of  specialty
products   accounted  for   approximately   30%  of  the  Company's
consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2003.


Markets, Sales and Distribution

   DENTSPLY  distributes  approximately  55% of its dental products
through   domestic   and   foreign   distributors,    dealers   and
importers.  However,  certain  highly  technical  products  such as
precious metal dental  alloys,  dental  ceramics,  crown and bridge
porcelain   products,   endodontic   instruments   and   materials,
orthodontic  appliances,  implants and bone substitute and grafting
materials  are sold  directly  to the dental  laboratory  or dental
professional  in some  markets.  No single  customer  accounted for
more than ten percent of consolidated net sales in 2003.

   Reference  is  made  to  the  information  about  the  Company's
foreign  and  domestic  operations  and  export  sales set forth in
Note 4 of the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

   Although  much of its sales are made to  distributors,  dealers,
and  importers,  DENTSPLY  focuses  its  marketing  efforts  on the
dentists,    dental   hygienists,    dental   assistants,    dental
laboratories  and  dental  schools  who are the  end  users  of its
products.  As  part  of  this  end-user  "pull  through"  marketing
approach,  DENTSPLY  employs  approximately  1,700 highly  trained,
product-specific    sales   and   technical    staff   to   provide
comprehensive  marketing  and service  tailored  to the  particular
sales and  technical  support  requirements  of the dealers and the
end  users.   The  Company  conducts   extensive   distributor  and
end-user marketing  programs and trains laboratory  technicians and
dentists  in the proper use of its  products,  introducing  them to
the latest  technological  developments at its Educational  Centers
located  throughout  the world in key dental  markets.  The Company
also   maintains   ongoing   relationships   with  various   dental
associations  and  recognized  worldwide  opinion  leaders  in  the
dental field.

   DENTSPLY  believes that demand in a given geographic  market for
dental  procedures  and products  varies  according to the stage of
social,  economic  and  technical  development  that the market has
attained.  Geographic  markets for DENTSPLY's  dental  products can
be categorized into the following three stages of development:

   The United States,  Canada,  Western Europe, the United Kingdom,
Japan, and Australia are highly  developed  markets that demand the
most advanced  dental  procedures and products and have the highest
level of expenditures  on dental care. In these markets,  the focus
of  dental  care  is   increasingly   upon   preventive   care  and
specialized  dentistry.  In  addition to basic  procedures  such as
the  excavation  and filling of cavities and tooth  extraction  and
denture  replacement,  dental  professionals  perform an increasing
volume  of  preventive  and  cosmetic  procedures.   These  markets
require varied and complex dental products,  utilize  sophisticated
diagnostic  and  imaging  equipment,  and  demand  high  levels  of
attention   to   protection    against    infection   and   patient
cross-contamination.

   In certain  countries in Central America,  South America and the
Pacific Rim,  dental care is often  limited to the  excavation  and
filling of cavities and other  restorative  techniques,  reflecting
more  modest  per  capita   expenditures  for  dental  care.  These
markets  demand  diverse  products  such  as  high  and  low  speed
handpieces,  restorative  compounds,  finishing  devices and custom
restorative devices.

   In the People's Republic of China,  India,  Eastern Europe,  the
countries  of  the  former  Soviet  Union,   and  other  developing
countries,  dental  ailments are treated  primarily  through  tooth
extraction  and  denture  replacement.   These  procedures  require
basic  surgical  instruments,  artificial  teeth for  dentures  and
bridgework.

   The Company offers  products and equipment for use in markets at
each of these stages of development.  The Company  believes that as
each  of  these  markets  develop,   demand  for  more  technically
advanced  products  will  increase.  The Company also believes that
its recognized brand names,  high quality and innovative  products,
technical  support services and strong  international  distribution
capabilities   position   it  well  to   take   advantage   of  any
opportunities for growth in all of the markets that it serves.


<PAGE>



   The  Company  believes  that the  following  trends  support the
Company's confidence in its industry growth outlook:

o     Increasing worldwide population.

o     Growth of the  population 65 or older - The percentage of the
   United States,  European and Japanese  population over age 65 is
   expected  to nearly  double by the year  2030.  In  addition  to
   having  significant  needs for dental care, the elderly are well
   positioned  to  pay  for  the  required  procedures  since  they
   control sizable amounts of discretionary income.

o     Natural teeth are being  retained  longer - Individuals  with
   natural  teeth  are much more  likely  to visit a  dentist  in a
   given year than those without any natural teeth remaining.

o     The  Changing  Dental  Practice  in the U.S. -  Dentistry  in
   North America has been transformed  from a profession  primarily
   dealing  with  pain,  infections  and  tooth  decay  to one with
   increased emphasis on preventive care and cosmetic dentistry.
o     Per  capita  and  discretionary  incomes  are  increasing  in
   emerging  nations - As personal  incomes continue to rise in the
   emerging   nations  of  the  Pacific  Rim  and  Latin   America,
   healthcare, including dental services, are a growing priority.

o     The  Company's   business  is  less  susceptible  than  other
   industries  to general  downturns  in the  economies in which it
   operates.  Many of the  products  the Company  offers  relate to
   dental  procedures  that are  considered  necessary  by patients
   regardless of the economic environment.

Product Development

   Technological  innovation and successful product development are
critical  to  strengthening  the  Company's  prominent  position in
worldwide dental markets,  maintaining its leadership  positions in
product   categories   where  it  has  a  high  market  share,  and
increasing  market  share in  product  categories  where  gains are
possible.   While   many  of   DENTSPLY's   innovations   represent
sequential  improvements  of existing  products,  the Company  also
continues  to   successfully   launch   products   that   represent
fundamental  change.  Its  research  centers  throughout  the world
employ  approximately  400  scientists,   Ph.D.'s,   engineers  and
technicians   dedicated  to  research   and  product   development.
Approximately  $43.3  million,  $39.9  million,  and $27.3 million,
respectively,   was   internally   invested   by  the   Company  in
connection  with  the  development  of  new  products  and  in  the
improvement  of existing  products  in the years ended 2003,  2002,
and 2001,  respectively.  There can be no assurance  that  DENTSPLY
will be able to continue to develop  innovative  products  and that
regulatory  approval of any new products will be obtained,  or that
if such  approvals are obtained,  such products will be accepted in
the   marketplace.   Additionally,   there  is  no  assurance  that
entirely new  technology  or approaches  to dental  treatment  will
not be introduced that could obsolete the Company's products.


Operating and Technical Expertise

   DENTSPLY  believes  that  its  manufacturing   capabilities  are
important  to  its  success.   The  manufacture  of  the  Company's
products  requires  substantial  and  varied  technical  expertise.
Complex  materials   technology  and  processes  are  necessary  to
manufacture  the  Company's   products.The   Company  continues  to
automate its global  manufacturing  operations in order to remain a
low cost producer.



<PAGE>


    DENTSPLY  has  completed  or has in  progress  a number  of key
initiatives  around  the world  that are  focused  on  helping  the
Company improve its operating margins.


o     The  Company  is  constructing  a  major  dental   anesthetic
   filling plant  outside  Chicago.  The Company  believes that the
   plant will become  operational  late in 2004,  following the FDA
   validation  of  manufacturing  practices,  at which time it will
   begin to supply products to certain international  markets. This
   initiative  is very  important  to the Company  since the assets
   acquired   from   AstraZeneca   did   not   include   production
   facilities.  The  company  has a contract  with  AstraZeneca  to
   produce the  company's  requirements  at their  facilities  on a
   contract  manufacturing  basis  pending  the  completion  of the
   Company's  manufacturing  facility  in  Chicago,  Illinois.  The
   contract with  AstraZeneca  has recently been  renegotiated  and
   extended to March 2005,  with  further  extensions  available to
   the  Company  with  six  months  advance  notice.  Based  on the
   current  contract   manufacturing   arrangement  in  place,  the
   Company  believes that it has  sufficient  sources of supply and
   contractual  flexibility to ensure a continued  source of supply
   until the facilities in Chicago are completed.

o     A  Corporate   Purchasing  office  has  been  established  to
   leverage  the  buying  power of  Dentsply  around  the world and
   reduce our  product  costs  through  lower  prices  and  reduced
   related overhead.

o     The Company has centralized its warehousing and  distribution
   in North  America and Europe.  While the initial gains from this
   strategy  have been  realized,  ongoing  efforts are in place to
   maximize  additional  opportunities  that can be gained  through
   improving our functional  expertise in supply chain  management.
   In an effort to  improve  customer  service  levels  and  reduce
   costs,  the Company is  currently  in the process of  relocating
   its  European  warehouse  form  Nijmegen,   The  Netherlands  to
   Radolfzell,  Germany. This relocation is expected to be complete
   by the first quarter of 2004.

o     A   Corporate   Quality   group  is  focused   on   improving
   manufacturing and distribution  processes throughout the Company
   with a goal to eliminate  non-value added activities,  improving
   product quality and expanding product margins.

o     DENTSPLY has seen  significant  gains from the formation of a
   North American Shared Services group.  The Company is evaluating
   the possible efficiency  opportunities  related to consolidating
   accounting and finance processes within Europe.

o     Information    technology   initiatives   are   underway   to
   standardize  worldwide  telecommunications,  implement  improved
   manufacturing  and financial  accounting  systems and an ongoing
   training  of IT users to  maximize  the  capabilities  of global
   systems.

o     DENTSPLY  continues to pursue  opportunities  to leverage its
   assets by consolidating  business units where appropriate and to
   optimize its diversity of worldwide manufacturing capabilities.

Financing

   DENTSPLY's  long-term  debt at  December  31,  2003  was  $790.2
million  and the ratio of  long-term  debt to total  capitalization
was  41.3%.  This  capitalization  ratio  is  down  from  54.3%  at
December  31,  2001,  the  quarter  in  which  the  Degussa  Dental
acquisition  was completed.  DENTSPLY may incur  additional debt in
the future,  including the funding of additional  acquisitions  and
capital  expenditures.  DENTSPLY's  ability to make payments on its
indebtedness,  and to fund its  operations  depends  on its  future
performance  and financial  results,  which,  to a certain  extent,
are   subject  to   general   economic,   financial,   competitive,
regulatory   and  other   factors  that  are  beyond  its  control.
Although  the  Management  believes  that the  Company has and will
continue to have  sufficient  liquidity,  there can be no assurance
that  DENTSPLY's  business will generate  sufficient cash flow from
operations  in the  future  to  service  its debt and  operate  its
business.

   DENTSPLY's  existing borrowing  documentation  contains a number
of  covenants  and  financial   ratios  which  it  is  required  to
satisfy.  Any breach of any such  covenants or  restrictions  would
result in a  default  under the  existing  borrowing  documentation
that would  permit the  lenders to  declare  all  borrowings  under
such  documentation  to be immediately due and payable and, through
cross default  provisions,  would entitle  DENTSPLY's other lenders
to  accelerate  their  loans.  DENTSPLY may not be able to meet its
obligations  under its  outstanding  indebtedness in the event that
any cross default provision is triggered.


<PAGE>



   The Company has $21.1  million of  long-term  debt coming due in
the next year.  Additional  information  about  DENTSPLY's  working
capital,    liquidity   and   capital    resources    provided   in
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition and
Results of Operations" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Competition

   The Company conducts its operations,  both domestic and foreign,
under highly  competitive  market  conditions.  Competition  in the
dental   products   industry  is  based   primarily   upon  product
performance,  quality,  safety  and ease of use,  as well as price,
customer  service,  innovation and acceptance by professionals  and
technicians.   DENTSPLY  believes  that  its  principal   strengths
include  its  well-established  brand  names,  its  reputation  for
high-quality  and  innovative  products,  its leadership in product
development  and  manufacturing,  and its  commitment  to  customer
service and technical support.

   The  size  and  number  of the  Company's  competitors  vary  by
product  line and from region to region.  There are many  companies
that  produce  some,  but not all, of the same types of products as
those  produced by the Company.  Certain of DENTSPLY's  competitors
may have  greater  resources  than does the  Company  in certain of
its product offerings.

   The   worldwide   market   for   dental   supplies   is   highly
competitive.  There  can be no  assurance  that  the  Company  will
successfully  identify  new product  opportunities  and develop and
market  new  products  successfully,   or  that  new  products  and
technologies   introduced  by  competitors   will  not  render  the
Company's products obsolete or noncompetitive.

Regulation

   The  Company's  products  are subject to  regulation  by,  among
other  governmental  entities,  the  United  States  Food  and Drug
Administration  (the "FDA").  In general,  if a dental  "device" is
subject to FDA regulation,  compliance with the FDA's  requirements
constitutes  compliance with corresponding  state  regulations.  In
order to ensure that dental  products  distributed for human use in
the United  States are safe and  effective,  the FDA  regulates the
introduction,   manufacture,   advertising,   labeling,  packaging,
marketing  and  distribution  of,  and  record-keeping   for,  such
products.   The  anesthetic   products  sold  by  the  Company  are
regulated  as  a  drug  by  the  FDA  and  by  all  other   similar
regulatory agencies around the world.

   Dental  devices  of the types  sold by  DENTSPLY  are  generally
classified  by the FDA into a category  that  renders  them subject
only  to  general  controls  that  apply  to all  medical  devices,
including   regulations    regarding    alteration,    misbranding,
notification,  record-keeping  and  good  manufacturing  practices.
DENTSPLY's  facilities  are subject to periodic  inspection  by the
FDA  to  monitor  DENTSPLY's  compliance  with  these  regulations.
There can be no  assurance  that the FDA will not raise  compliance
concerns.  Failure to satisfy  FDA  requirements  can result in FDA
enforcement actions,  including product seizure,  injunction and/or
criminal or civil  proceedings.  In the European Union,  DENTSPLY's
products  are  subject to the medical  devices  laws of the various
member  states  which  are  based on a  Directive  of the  European
Commission.   Such  laws  generally  regulate  the  safety  of  the
products  in  a  similar  way  to  the  FDA  regulations.  DENTSPLY
products  in Europe  bear the CE sign  showing  that such  products
adhere to the European regulations.

   All  dental   amalgam   filling   materials,   including   those
manufactured  and  sold  by  DENTSPLY,   contain  mercury.  Various
groups have  alleged  that  dental  amalgam  containing  mercury is
harmful  to  human  health  and have  actively  lobbied  state  and
federal  lawmakers and regulators to pass laws or adopt  regulatory
changes  restricting  the  use,  or  requiring  a  warning  against
alleged  potential  risks,  of dental  amalgams.  The FDA's  Dental
Devices  Classification  Panel,  the National  Institutes of Health
and the United  States Public  Health  Service have each  indicated
that no direct  hazard to humans from  exposure to dental  amalgams
has  been  demonstrated.  If the  FDA  were  to  reclassify  dental
mercury  and  amalgam  filling  materials  as classes  of  products
requiring FDA pre-market  approval,  there can be no assurance that
the  required  approval  would be  obtained  or that the FDA  would
permit the  continued  sale of amalgam  filling  materials  pending
its  determination.  In Europe,  in particular in  Scandinavia  and
Germany,  the contents of mercury in amalgam filling  materials has
been the subject of public  discussion.  As a consequence,  in 1994
the  German  health   authorities   required  suppliers  of  dental
amalgam  to amend  the  instructions  for use for  amalgam  filling
materials,  to include a precaution  against the use of amalgam for
children under  eighteen years of age and to women of  childbearing
age.  DENTSPLY  also  manufactures  and  sells  non-amalgam  dental
filling materials that do not contain mercury.


<PAGE>



   The  introduction  and  sale of  dental  products  of the  types
produced by the Company are also subject to  government  regulation
in the  various  foreign  countries  in which they are  produced or
sold.  DENTSPLY believes that it is in substantial  compliance with
the foreign  regulatory  requirements  that are  applicable  to its
products and manufacturing operations.


Sources and Supply of Raw Materials

  All of the raw materials  used by the Company in the  manufacture
of its  products  are  purchased  from  various  suppliers  and are
available from numerous  sources.  No single supplier  accounts for
a significant percentage of DENTSPLY's raw material requirements.

Intellectual Property

   Products  manufactured  by DENTSPLY are sold primarily under its
own  trademarks  and trade names.  DENTSPLY also owns and maintains
more than  1,000  patents  throughout  the  world  and is  licensed
under a small number of patents owned by others.

   DENTSPLY's  policy is to protect  its  products  and  technology
through  patents and trademark  registrations  in the United States
and in  significant  international  markets for its  products.  The
Company carefully  monitors  trademark use worldwide,  and promotes
enforcement  of its  patents  and  trademarks  in a manner  that is
designed to balance the cost of such protection  against  obtaining
the  greatest  value  for  the  Company.   DENTSPLY   believes  its
patents and trademark  properties  are important and  contribute to
the  Company's  marketing  position  but it does not  consider  its
overall  business to be materially  dependent  upon any  individual
patent or trademark.

Employees

   As of  December  31,  2003,  the  Company  and its  subsidiaries
employed  approximately  7,600  employees.  A small  percentage  of
the Company's  employees are  represented  by labor unions.  Hourly
workers  at the  Company's  Ransom & Randolph  facility  in Maumee,
Ohio are  represented by Local No. 12 of the  International  Union,
United Automobile,  Aerospace and Agriculture  Implement Workers of
America  under a collective  bargaining  agreement  that expires on
January 31, 2008.  Hourly  workers at the Company's  Midwest Dental
Products  facility in Des  Plaines,  Illinois  are  represented  by
International  Association  of Machinists  and  Aerospace  Workers,
AFL-CIO in Chicago  under a collective  bargaining  agreement  that
expires  on  May  31,  2006.  In  addition,  approximately  30%  of
DeguDent,  a German  subsidiary,  are  represented by labor unions.
The Company  believes that its  relationship  with its employees is
good.

   The  Company's  success is  dependent  upon its  management  and
employees.   The  loss  of  senior  management   employees  or  any
failure  to  recruit  and  train  needed   managerial,   sales  and
technical  personnel  could have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company.

Environmental Matters

   DENTSPLY  believes  that its  operations  comply in all material
respects  with  applicable   environmental  laws  and  regulations.
Maintaining  this  level  of  compliance  has not  had,  and is not
expected  to have,  a  material  effect  on the  Company's  capital
expenditures or on its business.

Securities and Exchange Act Reports

   DENTSPLY  makes  available free of charge through its website at
www.dentsply.com  its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q,  current  reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these
reports  filed or furnished  pursuant to Section  13(a) or 15(d) of
the  Securities   Exchange  Act  of  1934  as  soon  as  reasonably
practicable  after such  materials  are filed with or furnished to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission.



<PAGE>


Item 2.  Properties

      The  following  is a  current  list of  DENTSPLY's  principal
manufacturing locations:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                           Leased
             Location                                         Function                                    or Owned

<S>                                 <C>                                                            <C>
 United States:

 Los Angeles, California             Manufacture and distribution of investment                             Leased
                                     casting products

 Yucaipa , California                Manufacture and distribution of dental                                 Owned
                                     laboratory products and dental ceramics

 Lakewood, Colorado                  Manufacture and distribution of bone grafting                          Leased
                                     materials and hydroxylapatite plasma-feed coating
                                     materials and distribution of dental implant poducts

 Milford, Delaware                   Manufacture of consumable dental products                              Owned

 Des Plaines, Illinois               Manufacture and assembly of dental handpieces                          Leased

 Elk Grove Village, Illinois         Future manufacture of anesthetic products                        Owned and Leased

 Elgin, Illinois                     Manufacture of dental x-ray film holders, film                         Owned
                                     mounts and accessories

 Maumee, Ohio                        Manufacture and distribution of investment                             Owned
                                     casting products

 York, Pennsylvania                  Manufacture and distribution of artificial teeth                       Owned
                                     and other dental laboratory products;

 York, Pennsylvania                  Manufacture of small dental equipment and                              Owned
                                     preventive dental products

 Johnson City, Tennessee             Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                             Leased
                                     instruments and materials

 Foreign:

 Catanduva, Brazil                   Manufacture and distribution of consumable                             Owned
                                     dental products

 Petropolis, Brazil                  Manufacture and distribution of artificial teeth                       Owned
                                     and consumable dental products
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                           Leased
             Location                                         Function                                    or Owned

<S>                                 <C>                                                            <C>
 Bonsucesso, Brazil                  Manufacture and distribution of dental                                 Owned
                                     anesthetics

 Tianjin, China                      Manufacture and distribution of dental products                        Leased

 Plymouth, England                   Manufacture of dental hand instruments                                 Leased

 Ivry Sur-Seine, France              Manufacture and distribution of investment                             Leased
                                     casting products

 Bohmte, Germany                     Manufacture and distribution of dental                                 Owned
                                     laboratory products

 Hanau, Germany                      Manufacture and distribution of precious metal                         Owned
                                     dental alloys, dental ceramics and dental
                                     implant products

 Konstanz, Germany                   Manufacture and distribution of consumable                             Owned
                                     dental products

 Mannheim, Germany                   Manufacture and distribution of dental                                 Owned
                                     implant products

 Munich, Germany                     Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                             Owned
                                     instruments and materials

 Rosbach, Germany                    Manufacture and distribution of dental ceramics                        Owned

 New Delhi, India                    Manufacture and distribution of dental products                        Leased

 Nasu, Japan                         Manufacture and distribution of precious metal                         Owned
                                     dental alloys, consumable dental products and
                                     orthodontic products

 Hoorn, Netherlands                  Manufacture and distribution of precious metal                         Owned
                                     dental alloys and dental ceramics

 Las Piedras, Puerto Rico            Manufacture of crown and bridge materials                              Owned

 Ballaigues, Switzerland             Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                             Owned
                                     instruments

 Ballaigues, Switzerland             Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                             Owned
                                     instruments, plastic components and
                                     packaging material

 Le Creux, Switzerland               Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                             Owned
                                     instruments

</TABLE>



<PAGE>


    In  addition,  the  Company  maintains  sales and  distribution
offices  at  certain  of its  foreign  and  domestic  manufacturing
facilities,   as  well  as  at  various  other  United  States  and
international  locations.  Most of the  various  sites  around  the
world  that are used  exclusively  for sales and  distribution  are
leased.

   DENTSPLY  believes that its  properties  and facilities are well
maintained  and  are  generally   suitable  and  adequate  for  the
purposes for which they are used.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

   DENTSPLY and its subsidiaries are from time to time parties to
lawsuits arising out of their respective operations.  The Company
believes it is remote that pending litigation to which DENTSPLY
is a party will have a material adverse effect upon its
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

   In June  1995,  the  Antitrust  Division  of the  United  States
Department   of  Justice   initiated  an  antitrust   investigation
regarding  the policies  and conduct  undertaken  by the  Company's
Trubyte  Division  with respect to the  distribution  of artificial
teeth and related  products.  On January 5, 1999 the  Department of
Justice  filed  a  Complaint   against  the  Company  in  the  U.S.
District   Court  in   Wilmington,   Delaware   alleging  that  the
Company's tooth  distribution  practices violate the antitrust laws
and   seeking  an  order  for  the  Company  to   discontinue   its
practices.  The  trial in the  government's  case was held in April
and May 2002.  On August  14,  2003,  the Judge  entered a decision
that the  Company's  tooth  distribution  practices  do not violate
the  antitrust  laws.  On  October  14,  2003,  the  Department  of
Justice  appealed this decision to the U.S.  Third Circuit Court of
Appeals.  The parties are  proceeding  under the briefing  schedule
issued by the Third Circuit.

   Subsequent to the filing of the Department of Justice  Complaint
in 1999,  several  private  party class actions were filed based on
allegations  similar to those in the  Department  of Justice  case,
on  behalf of  laboratories,  and  denture  patients  in  seventeen
states who purchased Trubyte teeth or products  containing  Trubyte
teeth.  These cases were transferred to the U.S.  District Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware.  The private  party suits seek damages in an
unspecified  amount.  The Court has  granted the  Company's  Motion
on the  lack  of  standing  of the  laboratory  and  patient  class
actions  to  pursue   damage   claims.   The   Plaintiffs   in  the
laboratory  case have  filed a petition  with the Third  Circuit to
hear an  interlocutory  appeal  of  this  decision.  Also,  private
party  class  actions on behalf of indirect  purchasers  were filed
in  California  and  Florida  state  courts.   The  California  and
Florida cases have been dismissed by the  Plaintiffs  following the
decision  by the  Federal  District  Court  Judge  issued in August
2003.

   On March 27, 2002, a Complaint was filed in Alameda County,
California (which was transferred to Los Angeles County) by Bruce
Glover, D.D.S. alleging, inter alia, breach of express and
implied warranties, fraud, unfair trade practices and negligent
misrepresentation in the Company's manufacture and sale of
Advance(R) cement.  The Complaint seeks damages in an unspecified
amount for costs incurred in repairing dental work in which the
Advance(R) product allegedly failed.  In September 2003, the
Plaintiff filed a Motion for class certification, which the
Company opposed.  Oral arguments were held in December 2003, and
in January, 2004, the Judge entered an Order granting class
certification only on the claims of breach of warranty and
fraud.  In general, the Class is defined as California dentists
who purchased and used Advance(R) cement and were required, because
of failures of Advance(R), to repair or reperform dental
procedures.  The Company has filed a Writ of Mandate in the
appellate court seeking reversal of the class certification.  The
Advance(R) cement product was sold from 1994 through 2000 and total
sales in the United States during that period were approximately
$5.2 million.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   Not applicable.



<PAGE>



Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The  following  table sets forth certain  information  regarding
the executive officers of the Company as of February 28, 2004.


Name                 Age                  Position

Gerald K. Kunkle Jr.      57              Vice Chairman of the
                                          Board and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas L. Whiting         61              President    and    Chief
                                          Operating Officer
Christopher T. Clark      42              Senior Vice President
William R. Jellison       46              Senior Vice President
Rudolf Lehner             46              Senior Vice President
James G. Mosch            46              Senior Vice President
J. Henrik Roos            46              Senior Vice President
Bret W. Wise              43              Senior Vice President
                                          and Chief Financial Officer
Brian M. Addison          49              Vice President,
                                          Secretary and General Counsel

   Gerald K.  Kunkle Jr. was named Vice  Chairman  of the Board and
Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company  effective  January  1,
2004.  Prior  thereto,  Mr.  Kunkle  served as President  and Chief
Operating   Officer   since   January,   1997.   Prior  to  joining
DENTSPLY,  Mr.  Kunkle served as President of Johnson and Johnson's
Vistakon  Division,  a manufacturer and marketer of contact lenses,
from  January 1994 and,  from early 1992 until  January  1994,  was
President   of  Johnson   and   Johnson   Orthopaedics,   Inc.,   a
manufacturer   of   orthopaedic   implants,   fracture   management
products and trauma devices.

   Thomas L.  Whiting  was  named  President  and  Chief  Operating
Officer of the Company  effective  January 1, 2004.  Prior thereto,
Mr.  Whiting  was  appointed   Executive   Vice   President   since
November,  2002.Prior to this  appointment,  Mr.  Whiting served as
Senior Vice  President  since early 1995.  Prior to his Senior Vice
President  appointment,  Mr. Whiting was Vice President and General
Manager  of the  Company's  L.D.  Caulk  Operating  unit from March
1987  to  early  1995.   Prior  to  that  time,  Mr.  Whiting  held
management  positions  with  Deseret  Medical  and the  Parke-Davis
Company.

    Christopher T. Clark was named Senior Vice President effective
November 1, 2002 and oversees the following areas: North American
Group Marketing and Administration; Alliance and Government
Sales; and the Ransom and Randolph, DENTSPLY Sankin, L.D. Caulk,
and DeDent operating units.  Prior to this appointment, Mr. Clark
served as Vice President and General Manager of the Gendex
operating unit since June 1999.  Prior to that time, he served as
Vice President and General Manager of the Trubyte operating unit
since July of 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Clark was Director of
Marketing of the Trubyte Operating Unit since September 1992 when
he started with the Company.

   William R.  Jellison was named Senior Vice  President  effective
November  1,  2002 and  oversees  the  following  operating  units:
DENTSPLY   Asia,   DENTSPLY   Professional,   Maillefer,   Dentsply
Endodontics,   including   Tulsa  Dental  Products  and  Vereinigte
Dentalwerke  ("VDW").  Prior  to  this  appointment,  Mr.  Jellison
served as Senior  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of
the  Company  since April 1998.  Prior to that time,  Mr.  Jellison
held  various  financial   management   positions   including  Vice
President  of  Finance,  Treasurer  and  Corporate  Controller  for
Donnelly   Corporation   of  Holland,   Michigan  since  1980.  Mr.
Jellison is a Certified Management Accountant.


<PAGE>



   Rudolf  Lehner  was  named  Senior  Vice   President   effective
December  12, 2001 and  oversees  the  following  operating  units:
Degussa Dental Germany,  Degussa Dental Austria,  Elephant  Dental,
DENTSPLY France,  DENTSPLY Italy, DENTSPLY Russia,  DENTSPLY United
Kingdom,  and Middle  East/Africa.  Prior to that  time,  Mr Lehner
was Chief  Operating  Officer of  Degussa  Dental  since  mid-2000.
From  1999 to mid 2000,  he had the  overall  responsibilities  for
Sales &  Marketing  at  Degussa  Dental.  From  1994 to  1999,  Mr.
Lehner  held the  position of Chief  Executive  Officer of Elephant
Dental.  From  1990 to  1994,  he had  overall  responsibility  for
international  activities  at  Degussa  Dental.  Prior to that,  Mr
Lehner held  various  positions  at Degussa  Dental and its parent,
Degussa AG, since starting in 1984.

   James  G.  Mosch  was  named  Senior  Vice  President  effective
November  1,  2002 and  oversees  the  following  operating  units:
DENTSPLY  Pharmaceutical,   DENTSPLY  Australia,  DENTSPLY  Brazil,
DENTSPLY  Canada,  DENTSPLY  Latin  America and  DENTSPLY  Mexico..
Prior to this  appointment,  Mr. Mosch served as Vice President and
General Manager of the DENTSPLY  Professional  operating unit since
July 1994 when he started with the Company.

   J. Henrik Roos was named Senior Vice  President  effective  June
1,  1999 and  oversees  the  following  operating  units:  Ceramco,
CeraMed,  Friadent,  GAC,  and  Trubyte.  Prior to his Senior  Vice
President  appointment,  Mr.  Roos  served  as Vice  President  and
General  Manager of the  Company's  Gendex  division from June 1995
to June  1999.  Prior to that,  he  served as  President  of Gendex
European  operations  in  Frankfurt,   Germany  since  joining  the
Company in August 1993.

   Bret W. Wise was named Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company effective December 1, 2002. In
this position, he is also responsible for Business Development,
Accounting, Treasury, Tax, Information Technology, Internal Audit
and the Rinn operating unit.  Prior to that time, Mr. Wise was
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with Ferro
Corporation of Cleveland, OH. Prior to joining Ferro Corporate in
1999, Mr. Wise held the position of Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer at WCI Steel, Inc., of Warren, OH, from 1994 to
1999. Prior to joining WCI Steel, Inc., Mr. Wise was a partner
with KPMG LLP. Mr. Wise is a Certified Public Accountant.

   Brian M. Addison has been Vice President,  Secretary and General
Counsel of the  Company  since  January  1, 1998.  Prior to that he
was  Assistant  Secretary  and  Corporate  Counsel  since  December
1994.  From August  1994 to  December  1994 he was a Partner at the
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania  law firm of  McNees,  Wallace  & Nurick.
Prior to that he was Senior Counsel at Hershey Foods Corporation.


                              PART II

Item  5.  Market  for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
Stockholder Matters

   The information set forth under the caption  "Supplemental Stock
Information" is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   The information set forth under the caption "Selected  Financial
Data" is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item  7.  Management's   Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

   The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption  "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7A.  Quantitative  and  Qualitative  Disclosure  About Market
Risk

   The  information set forth under the caption  "Quantitative  and
Qualitative  Disclosure  About  Market  Risk"  is  filed as part of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



<PAGE>


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The  information  set  forth  under the  captions  "Management's
Financial  Responsibility,"  "Report of  Independent  Accountants,"
"Consolidated   Statements   of  Income,"   "Consolidated   Balance
Sheets,"   "Consolidated   Statements  of  Stockholders'   Equity,"
"Consolidated   Statements   of  Cash   Flows,"   and   "Notes   to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements"  is  filed  as  part  of  this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item  9.  Changes  in  and  Disagreements   with  Accountants  on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

   Not applicable.

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures


      (a)  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

      The Company's management, with the participation of the
Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls
and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this
report.  Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company's
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
covered by this report have been designed and are functioning
effectively to provide reasonable assurance that the information
required to be disclosed by the Company in reports filed under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC's rules and forms.  The Company believes that a controls
system, no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide
absolute assurance that the objectives of the controls system are
met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance
that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a
company have been detected.

      (b)  Change in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

      No change in the Company's internal control over financial
reporting occurred during the Company's most recent fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial
reporting.

                             PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The  information  (i) set  forth  under the  caption  "Executive
Officers  of the  Registrant"  in Part I of this  Annual  Report on
Form  10-K and (ii) set  forth  under  the  captions  "Election  of
Directors"  and  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial   Ownership  Reporting
Compliance" in the 2004 Proxy Statement is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Code of Ethics

   The Company  has adopted a Code of Business  Conduct and Ethics
that  applies  to  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  the  Chief
Financial  Officer and all of the Company's  employees.  This Code
of Business  Conduct  and Ethics is  provided  as Exhibit  99.1 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


<PAGE>



Item 11.  Executive Compensation

   The   information   set  forth  under  the  caption   "Executive
Compensation"  in the 2004 Proxy Statement is  incorporated  herein
by reference.

Item 12.  Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters

   The information set forth under the caption "Security  Ownership
of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners and  Management"  in the 2004 Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Securities Authorized For Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

   The following  table  provides  information at December 31, 2003
regarding  compensation  plans and arrangements  under which equity
securities of DENTSPLY are authorized for issuance.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                     Number of
                                            Number of securities        Weighted average        securities remaining
                                             to be issued upon           exercise price       available for future issuance
                                                exercise of              of outstanding       under equity compensation
                                            outstanding options,       options, warrants      plans (excluding securities
Plan category                               warrants and rights            and rights         reflected in column (a))
                                                    (a)                       (b)                       (c)

<S>                                               <C>                        <C>                      <C>
Equity compensation plans approved
  by security holders (1)                          8,132,457                  28.42                    6,116,264 (2)

Equity compensation plans not approved
  by security holders (3)                             45,000                  14.83                       n/a

Other equity compensation plans not approved
  by security holders (4)                             99,555                    n/a                       n/a

Total                                              8,277,012

</TABLE>

(1)   Consists  of  the  DENTSPLY  International  Inc.  1993  Stock
      Option  Plan,  1998 Stock  Option Plan and 2002 Stock  Option
      Plan.

(2)   The maximum  number of shares  available  for issuance  under
      the 2002  Stock  Option  Plan is  7,000,000  shares of common
      stock  (plus  any  shares  of  common  stock  covered  by any
      unexercised  portion of canceled or terminated  stock options
      granted  under  the  1993  Stock  Option  Plan or 1998  Stock
      Option  Plan) (the  "Maximum  Number").  The  Maximum  Number
      (which  includes  shares already granted as options under the
      plan) may be  increased  on January 1 of each  calendar  year
      during the term of the 2002 Stock  Option Plan to equal 7% of
      the  outstanding  shares of common stock on such date,  prior
      to such increase if greater than 7,000,000.

(3)   Consists of the Burton C. Borgelt  Nonstatutory  Stock Option
      Agreement  granted on January 13,  1994.  These  options were
      fully exercised in January 2004..

(4)   See  below  for a  description  of  the  Directors'  Deferred
      Compensation Plan and the Supplemental  Executive  Retirement
      Plan  pursuant to which  shares of common stock may be issued
      to outside directors and certain management employees.



<PAGE>



Directors Deferred Compensation Plan

   Effective January 1, 1997, the Company  established a Directors'
Deferred  Compensation  Plan (the  "Deferred  Plan").  The Deferred
Plan permits  non-employee  directors to elect to defer  receipt of
directors  fees  or  other   compensation  for  their  services  as
directors.   Non-employee   directors   can  elect  to  have  their
deferred  payments  administered as a cash with interest account or
a  stock  unit  account.  Distributions  to a  director  under  the
Deferred Plan will not be made to any  non-employee  director until
the  non-employee  director  ceases  to be a member of the Board of
Directors.  Upon ceasing to be a member of the Board of  Directors,
the  deferred  non-employee  director  fees  are  paid  based on an
earlier  election to have their  accounts  distributed  immediately
or in annual installments for up to ten (10) years.

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

   Effective  January  1,  1999,  the  Board  of  Directors  of the
Company  adopted  a  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan (the
"Plan").   The  purpose  of  the  Plan  is  to  provide  additional
retirement  benefits for a limited  group of  management  employees
whom  the   Board   concluded   were  not   receiving   competitive
retirement   benefits.   No  actual  benefits  are  put  aside  for
participants  and the  participants  are general  creditors  of the
Company   for  payment  of  the   benefits   upon   retirement   or
termination  from  the  Company.  Participants  can  elect  to have
these benefits  administered  as a cash with interest or stock unit
account.  Upon  retirement/termination,  the  participant  is  paid
the  benefits  in their  account  based on an earlier  election  to
have  their   accounts   distributed   immediately   or  in  annual
installments for up to five (5) years.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   No relationships or transactions are required to be reported.


Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

   The information set forth under the caption "Relationship with
Independent Auditors" in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.



<PAGE>



                              PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits,  Financial  Statement  Schedules and Reports on
Form 8-K

(a)   Documents filed as part of this Report

      1    Financial Statements

      The  following   consolidated  financial  statements  of  the
      Company are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

      Report of Independent Auditors
      Consolidated  Statements of Income - Years ended December 31,
      2003, 2002 and 2001
      Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2003 and 2002
      Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity  -  Years
      ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
      Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December
      31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

      2    Financial Statement Schedules

      The following  financial statement schedule is
      filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

      Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

      All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is  made in the
      applicable  accounting  regulations  of  the  Securities  and
      Exchange  Commission  are not required to be included  herein
      under  the  related  instructions  or are  inapplicable  and,
      therefore, have been omitted.


<PAGE>



3     Exhibits.   The   Exhibits   listed   below   are   filed  or
      incorporated  by reference  as part of this Annual  Report on
      Form 10-K.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Exhibit
Number                          Description
<S>       <C>
3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation (17)
3.2       By-Laws, as amended (16)
4.1. (a)  United States Commercial Paper Issuing and paying Agency Agreement dated as of August 12,1999 between the Company
          and the Chase Manhattan Bank. (13)
     (b)  United States Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of March 28, 2002 between the Company and Salomon Smith
          Barney Inc. (18)
     (c)  United States Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of April 30, 2002 between the Company and Credit Suisse
          First Boston Corporation. (18)
     (d)  Euro Commercial Paper Note Agreement dated as of July 18, 2002 between the Company and Citibank International plc. (18)
     (e)  Euro Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated as of July 18, 2002  between the Company and Citibank International
          plc and Credit Suisse First Boston (Europe) Limited. (18)
4.2  (a)  Note Agreement (governing Series A, Series B and Series C Notes) dated March 1, 2001 between the Company and
          Prudential Insurance Company of America. (14)
     (b)  First Amendment to Note Agreement dated September 1, 2001 between the Company and Prudential Insurance Company of
          America. (16)
4.3  (a)  5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001 among the Company,
          the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and First Union
          National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents. (16)
     (b)  364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001 among the Company,
          the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative Agent, and
          First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents. (16)
     (c)  Amendment to the 5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001 among
          the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
          Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents. (18)
     (d)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 25, 2001
          among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
          Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents. (18)
     (e)  Amendment to the 5-Year Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of August 30, 2001
          among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
          Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents. (18)
     (f)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of August 30, 2001
          among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
          Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents. (18)
     (g)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 24, 2002
          among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
          Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents. (18)
     (h)  Amendment to the 364-Day Competitive Advance, Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreements dated as of May 23, 2003
          among the Company, the guarantors named therein, the banks named therein, the ABN Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
          Agent, and First Union National Bank and Harris Trust and Savings Bank as Documentation Agents.
</TABLE>



<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<S>       <C>
4.4       Private placement note dated December 28, 2001 between the Company and Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
          and Nationwide Life Insurance Company. (16)
4.5  (a)  Eurobonds Agency Agreement dated December 13, 2001 between the Company and Citibank, N.A. (16)
     (b)  Eurobond Subscription Agreement dated December 11, 2001 between the Company and Credit Suisse First Boston (Europe)
          Limited, UBS AG, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., First Union Securities, Inc.; and Tokyo-Mitsubishi International plc
          (the Managers). (16)
     (c)  Pages 4 through 16 of the Company's Eurobond Offering Circular dated December 11, 2001. (16)
10.1      1993 Stock Option Plan (2)
10.2      1998 Stock Option Plan (1)
10.3      2002 Stock Option Plan (17)
10.4      Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement between the Company and Burton C. Borgelt (3)
10.5 (a)  Trust Agreement for the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan between the Company and T. Rowe Price Trust Company
          dated as of November 1, 2000. (14)
     (b)  Plan Recordkeeping Agreement for the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan between the Company and T. Rowe
          Price Trust Company dated as of November 1, 2000. (14)
10.6      Written Description of the Chairman's Agreement between the Company and John C. Miles II
10.7      Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1996 between the Company and W. William Weston (9)*
10.8      Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1996 between the Company and Thomas L. Whiting (9)*
10.9      Employment Agreement dated October 11,1996 between the Company and Gerald K. Kunkle Jr. (10)*
10.10     Employment Agreement dated April 20, 1998 between the Company and William R. Jellison  (12)*
10.11     Employment Agreement dated September 10, 1998 between the Company and Brian M. Addison (12)*
10.12     Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1999 between the Company and J. Henrik Roos (13)*
10.13     Employment Agreement dated October 1, 2001 between the Company and Rudolf Lehner (16)*
10.14     Employment Agreement dated November 1, 2002 between the Company and Christopher T. Clark (18)*
10.15     Employment Agreement dated November 1, 2002 between the Company and James G. Mosch (18)*
10.16     Employment Agreement dated December 1, 2002 between the Company and Bret W. Wise (18)*
10.17     DENTSPLY International Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan effective January 1, 1997 (10)*
10.18     Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1999 (12)*
10.19     Written Description of Year 2003 Incentive Compensation Plan.
10.20(a)  AZLAD Products Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB and Maillefer Instruments Holdings, S.A.
          (a subsidiary of the Company). (14)
     (b)  AZLAD Products Manufacturing Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB and Maillefer Instruments
          Holdings, S.A. (14)
     (c)  AZ Trade Marks License Agreement, dated January 18, 2001 between AstraZeneca AB and Maillefer Instruments Holdings,
          S.A. (14)
     (d)  AZLAD Products Manufacturing Agreement, effective March 1, 2004 between AstraZeneca AB and Maillefer Instruments
          Holdings, S.A.
10.21     Sale and Purchase Agreement of Gendex Equipment Business between the Company and Danaher Corporation Dated
          December 11, 2003.
10.22(a)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated November 30, 2001 between Fleet Precious Metal Inc.
          and the Company. (16)
     (b)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between JPMorgan Chase Bank
          and the Company. (16)
     (c)  Precious metal inventory Purchase and Sale Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between Mitsui & Co., Precious
          Metals Inc. and the Company. (16)
21.1      Subsidiaries of the Company
23.1      Consent of Independent Auditors - PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<S>       <C>
31        Section 302 Certification Statements
32        Section 906 Certification Statement
99.1      DENTSPLY International Inc. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

</TABLE>


*     Management contract or compensatory plan.

(1)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-56093).

(2)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-71792).

(3)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-79094).

(4)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-52616).

(5)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended March 31, 1993, File No. 0-16211.

(6)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1993, File No. 0-16211.

(7)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      December 31, 1994, File No. 0-16211.

(8)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 10, 1996,
      File No. 0-16211.

(9)   Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1995, File No. 0-16211.

(10)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1996, File No. 0-16211.

(11)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1997, File No. 0-16211.

(12)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1998, File No. 0-16211.

(13)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1999, File No. 0-16211.

(14)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 2000, File No. 0-16211.

(15)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
      June 30, 2001, File No. 0-16211.

(16)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 2001, File No. 0-16211.

(17)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on   Form   S-8   (No.
      333-101548).

(18)  Incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibit   included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 2002, File No. 0-16211.



<PAGE>




                          Loan Documents

   The Company and certain of its  subsidiaries  have  entered into
various loan and credit  agreements and issued  various  promissory
notes and  guaranties of such notes,  listed  below,  the aggregate
principal  amount  of which is less  than  10% of its  assets  on a
consolidated  basis.  The  Company  has not  filed  copies  of such
documents  but   undertakes  to  provide   copies  thereof  to  the
Securities and Exchange Commission supplementally upon request.

      (1)  Master  Grid Note dated  November  4, 1996  executed  in
      favor of The Chase  Manhattan Bank in connection  with a line
      of credit  up to  $20,000,000  between  the  Company  and The
      Chase Manhattan Bank.

      (2)  Agreement  dated June 13, 2001 between  Midland Bank PLC
      and  Dentsply   Limited  for  GBP  3,000,000   overdraft  and
      $2,000,000 foreign exchange facility.

      (3)   Agreement  dated June 21, 2001 in the principal  amount
      of  $6,000,000  between  Dentsply  Research  and  Development
      Corp, Hong Kong Branch and Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi.

      (4)  Form of "comfort letters" to various foreign  commercial
      lending  institutions having a lending  relationship with one
      or more of the Company's international subsidiaries.


(b)   Reports on Form 8-K

      On January 28, 2004, the Company filed a Form 8-K, under
      item 12, furnishing the press release issued on January 27,
      2004 regarding its fourth quarter 2003 sales and earnings.

      On February 3, 2004, the Company filed a Form 8-K, under
      item 12, furnishing a transcript of its January 28, 2004,
      conference call regarding the Company's discussion of its
      fourth quarter 2003 sales and earnings.

      On March 1, 2004,  the Company  filed a Form 8-K,  under item
      5,  furnishing a summary of the Company's  quarterly  results
      of operations for the fiscal years 2003 and 2002,  related to
      its continuing and discontinued operations.



<PAGE>



SCHEDULE II

<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC.
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003
<CAPTION>


                                                               Additions
                                                    -----------------------------
                                                         Charged
                                        Balance at      (Credited)     Charged to        Write-offs                 Balance
                                        Beginning       To Costs        Other              Net of    Translation    at End
Description                             of Period     And Expenses     Accounts          Recoveries   Adjustment   of Period
                                                                          (in thousands)
<S>                              <C>      <C>             <C>          <C>      <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>
Allowance for doubtful accounts:

For Year Ended December 31,
                                  2001     $ 6,360         $ 2,844      $ 5,289  (a)       $(1,638)      $ (253)   $ 12,602
                                  2002      12,602           2,904        3,560  (b)        (1,987)       1,413      18,492
                                  2003      18,492             569          (29)            (4,771)       2,041      16,302

Allowance for trade discounts:

For Year Ended December 31,
                                  2001       1,629             555            -             (1,194)         (77)        913
                                  2002         913             988            -               (871)          61       1,091
                                  2003       1,091           1,494           19             (1,681)         139       1,062

Inventory valuation reserves:

For Year Ended December 31,
                                  2001      14,942           4,369        8,409  (c)        (2,996)        (365)     24,359
                                  2002      24,359           4,855        4,671  (d)        (5,581)       2,366      30,670
                                  2003      30,670           2,845          (22)            (3,418)       3,037      33,112


Deferred tax asset valuation allowance:

For Year Ended December 31,
                                  2001       2,353             909           -                (215)        (183)      2,864
                                  2002       2,864           3,431           -              (1,129)         176       5,342
                                  2003       5,342           5,764           -              (2,596)       1,139       9,649
------------------

<FN>

(a) Includes $389 from acquisition of Friadent and $4,900 from acquisition of Degussa Dental.
(b) Includes $797 from acquisition of Austenal and $2,763 related to the acquisition of Degussa Dental.
(c) Includes $1,580 from acquisition of Friadent and $6,829 from acquisition of Degussa Dental.
(d) Includes $588 from acquisition of Austenal and $4,083 related to the acquisition of Degussa Dental.
</FN>

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<CAPTION>

                                                                           Year ended December 31,

                                                   2003           2002           2001           2000           1999
                                                           (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                                             <C>            <C>            <C>               <C>            <C>
Statement of Income Data:
  Net sales                                     $ 1,570,925    $ 1,417,600    $ 1,045,275       $ 810,409      $ 763,093
  Net sales without precious metal content        1,365,890      1,230,511        994,630         810,409        763,093
  Gross profit                                      773,201        704,411        542,838         438,728        406,933
  Restructuring and other costs (income)              3,700         (2,732)         5,073             (56)             -
  Operating income                                  267,983        249,452        170,209         155,571        143,099
  Income before income taxes                        251,196        214,090        179,522         146,907        134,216

  Net income from continuing operations (1)       $ 169,853      $ 143,641      $ 117,714        $ 97,822       $ 87,586
  Net income from discontinued operations             4,330          4,311          3,782           3,194          2,277
  Total net income (1)                            $ 174,183      $ 147,952      $ 121,496       $ 101,016       $ 89,863

Earnings per common share - basic:
  Continuing operations (1)                          $ 2.16         $ 1.84         $ 1.51          $ 1.26         $ 1.11
  Discontinued operations                              0.05           0.05           0.05            0.04           0.03
Total earnings per common share - basic (1)          $ 2.21         $ 1.89         $ 1.56          $ 1.30         $ 1.14

Earnings per common share - diluted
  Continuing operations (1)                          $ 2.11         $ 1.80         $ 1.49          $ 1.25         $ 1.10
  Discontinued operations                              0.05           0.05           0.05            0.04           0.03
Total earnings per common share - diluted (1)        $ 2.16         $ 1.85         $ 1.54          $ 1.29         $ 1.13

  Cash dividends declared per
    common share                                  $ 0.19700      $ 0.18400      $ 0.18333       $ 0.17083      $ 0.15417

Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding:
  Basic                                              78,823         78,180         77,671          77,785         79,131
  Diluted                                            80,647         79,994         78,975          78,560         79,367

Balance Sheet Data:
  Cash and cash equivalents                       $ 163,755       $ 25,652       $ 33,710        $ 15,433       $ 11,418
  Total assets                                    2,445,587      2,087,033      1,798,151         866,615        863,730
  Total debt                                        812,175        774,373        731,158         110,294        165,467
  Stockholders' equity                            1,122,069        835,928        609,519         520,370        468,872
  Return on average stockholders' equity              17.8%          20.5%          21.5%           20.4%          20.4%
  Long-term debt to total capitalization              41.3%          47.9%          54.3%           17.4%          23.7%

Other Data:
  Depreciation and amortization                    $ 45,661       $ 41,352       $ 51,512        $ 39,170       $ 37,479
  Capital expenditures                               76,583         55,476         47,529          26,885         31,944
  Property, plant and equipment, net                376,211        313,178        240,890         181,341        180,536
  Goodwill and other intangibles, net             1,209,739      1,134,506      1,012,160         344,753        349,421
  Interest expense, net                              24,205         27,389         18,256           6,735         12,247
  Cash flows from operating activities              257,992        172,983        211,068         145,622        125,622
  Inventory days                                         93            100             93             114            122
  Receivable days                                        50             49             46              52             52
  Income tax rate                                     32.4%          32.9%          34.4%           33.4%          34.7%

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



(1) In the first and second quarters of 2003, the Company
recorded pre-tax charges of $4.1 million and $5.5 million,
respectively, related primarily to adjustments to inventory,
accounts receivable and prepaid expense accounts at one division
in the United States and two international subsidiaries.  Of the
$9.6 million in total pre-tax charges, $2.4 million were
determined to be properly recorded as changes in estimates, $0.4
million were determined to be errors between the first and second
quarters of 2003, and the remaining $6.8 million ($4.6 million
after-tax) were determined to errors relating to prior periods.
In addition, the Company determined that $4.8 million of reserves
reversed in 2003 and $4.1 million of reserves reversed in 2001
and 2002 should have been reversed in earlier periods or had been
erroneously established.  In the aggregate, had the charge and
reserve errors been recorded in the proper period, reported net
income would have increased by $0.8 million ($0.1 per basic and
diluted share) in 2000, increased by $1.2 million ($0.02 per
basic and diluted share) in 2001, and decreased by $3.4 million
($0.04 per basic and diluted share) in 2002. The effect of
recording the Charge Errors and Reserve Errors in 2003 reduced
net income by $1.3 million ($0.02 per basic and diluted share).
Following a quantitative and qualitative assessment of
materiality, Company concluded that the charges and reserve
errors were not material to the results of operations and
financial position of the Company for the years ended December
31, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 and accordingly, the prior period
financial statements have not been restated.  See Note 19 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional information
related to this matter.


<PAGE>



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   Certain statements made by the Company, including without
limitation, statements in the Overview section below and other
statements containing the words "plans", "anticipates",
"believes", "expects", or words of similar import may be deemed to
be forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe
harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995.  Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties which may materially affect the
Company's business and prospects, and should be read in
conjunction with the risk factors and uncertainties discussed
within Item I, Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


OVERVIEW

   Dentsply International Inc. is the world's largest manufacturer
of professional dental  products . The Company is headquartered
in the United States, and operates in more than 120 other
countries, principally through its foreign subsidiaries. While
the United States and Europe are the Company's largest markets,
the Company serves all of the major professional dental markets
worldwide.  In 2003, sales to customers outside the United States
represented 58% of the Company's net sales.

   There are several important aspects of its business which the
Company has commented on in the past.  These include: (1)
internal growth in the United States, Europe and the Pacific Rim;
(2) the development and introduction of innovative new products;
(3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on
controlling costs and enhancing efficiency.  We define "internal
growth" as the increase in our net sales from period to period,
excluding precious metal content, the impact of changes in
currency exchange rates, and the net sales, for a period of
twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses that
we have acquired or divested.

   In 2003, overall economic conditions resulted in a slowing of
the Company's internal growth rate in the United States, the
largest dental market in the world.  Our internal growth rate in
the United States slowed to 3.3% in 2003, down from rates of 9.0%
and 7.2% experienced in 2002 and 2001, respectively.  Management
expects that economic conditions will improve in the United
States in 2004 and thus anticipates that our internal growth rate
will accelerate as economic conditions improve.  In contrast to
the United States, the rate of internal growth in Europe in 2003
improved to 8.6%, compared to 6.6% and 5.0% in 2002 and 2001,
respectively.  Management believes that this growth rate resulted
from strong market acceptance in Europe of our product portfolio
and our improved market presence stemming from the acquisitions
we completed throughout 2001.  Management anticipates continued
strong growth in Europe in 2004.  Japan represents the third
largest dental market in the world behind the United States and
Europe.  Japan's dental market growth closely parallels its
economic growth.  The Company views the Japanese market as an
important growth opportunity, both in terms of  a recovery in the
Japanese economy and the opportunity to increase our market
share.   In 2002 and early 2003, the growth rate in the dental
markets in Asia was among the highest in the world.   The SARs
crisis experienced in 2003 caused substantial disruption in the
dental markets in several key Asian countries. Trends in late
2003 and early 2004 show a recovery in Asian dental market
conditions, but it is not yet clear whether this improvement is
sustainable. Although Asia, excluding Japan, represented only
3.3% of the Company's sales in 2003, management believes that the
Asian markets represent a long-term growth opportunity for the
industry and the Company.

   Product innovation is an important element of the Company's
growth strategy.  Management plans include an acceleration of
investment in research and development of approximately 20% in
2004 to support new and innovative products and technology.
Management believes that the Company's strategy of being a lead
innovator in the industry is an important element to the
long-term success of the Company.

   Although the professional dental market in which the Company
operates has experienced consolidation, it is still a fragmented
industry.  The Company continues to focus on opportunities to
expand the Company's product offerings through acquisition.
Management believes that there will continue to be adequate
opportunities to participate as a consolidator in the industry
for the foreseeable future.


<PAGE>



   The Company also remains focused on reducing costs and
improving competitiveness.  Management expects to continue to
consolidate operations or functions and reduce the cost of those
operations and functions while improving service levels.  The
Company believes that the benefits from these opportunities will
improve the cost structure and offset areas of rising costs such
as energy, benefits, regulatory oversight and compliance and
financial reporting in the United States.



FACTORS IMPACTING COMPARABILITY BETWEEN YEARS

Acquisitions

   In January 2002, the Company acquired the partial denture
business of Austenal Inc. ("Austenal"), and in 2001 the Company
made three significant acquisitions.  In January 2001, the
Company acquired the outstanding shares of Friadent GmbH
("Friadent"), a global dental implant manufacturer and marketer.
In March 2001, the Company acquired the dental injectible
anaesthetic assets of AstraZeneca ("AZ Assets"). In October 2001,
the Company acquired the Degussa Dental Group ("Degussa Dental"),
a manufacturer and seller of dental products, including precious
metal alloys, ceramics, dental laboratory equipment and chairside
products.  The details of these transactions are discussed in
Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The results of
these acquired companies have been included in the consolidated
financial statements since the dates of acquisition. These
acquisitions, accounted for using the purchase method,
significantly impact the comparability between 2001 and 2002.

Accounting Charges and Reserve Reversals

   In the first and second quarters of 2003, the Company recorded
pretax charges of $4.1 million and $5.5 million, respectively,
related primarily to adjustments to inventory, accounts
receivable, and prepaid expense accounts at one division in the
United States and two international subsidiaries.  All of these
operating units had been involved in integrating one or more of
the acquisitions completed in 2001.  Of the $9.6 million in total
pretax charges recorded in the first and second quarters of 2003,
$2.4 million were determined to be properly recorded as changes
in estimate, $0.4 million were determined to be errors between
the first and second quarters of 2003, and the remaining $6.8
million ($4.6 million after tax) were determined to be errors
relating in prior periods ("Charge Errors").  The Charge Errors
included $3.0 million related to inaccurate reconciliations and
valuation of inventory, $2.0 million related to inaccurate
reconciliations and valuation of accounts receivable, $1.3
million related to unrecoverable prepaid expenses and $0.5
million related to other accounts.  Had the Charge Errors been
recorded in the proper period, net income as reported would have
been decreased by $0.6 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in 2001
and $4.0 million ($0.05 per diluted share) in 2002.  Recording
the effect of the Charge Errors in 2003 reduced net income by
$4.6 million ($0.06 per diluted share).

   In addition to the aforementioned, in the first and second
quarters of 2003, the Company determined that $4.8 million in
reserves reversed in 2003 and $4.1 million of reserves reversed
in 2001 and 2002 should have been reversed in earlier years or
had been erroneously established ("Reserve Errors). The Reserve
Errors occurred in 2000 through 2002 and related primarily to
asset valuation accounts and accrued liabilities, including (on a
pre-tax basis) $5.1 million related to product return provisions,
$1.1 million related to bonus accruals, $0.8 million related to
product warranties, $0.7 million related to inventory valuation
and $1.2 million related to other accounts.  Had the Reserve
Errors been recorded in the proper period, they would have
increased net income as reported by $0.8 million ($0.01 per
diluted share) in 2000, $1.8 million ($0.02 per diluted share) in
2001 and $0.7 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in 2002.
Recording the effect of the Reserve Errors in 2003 increased net
income by $3.3 million ($0.04 per diluted share).


<PAGE>



   The above described charges (including the $2.4 million changes
in estimates) and Reserve Errors amounted to $19.9 million
(pre-tax) on an absolute basis and occurred from 2000 through the
second quarter of 2003.  Included in this total, are $2.0 million
of Reserve Errors and $0.4 million of Charge Errors that
originated and reversed in different quarters of same year. In
the aggregate, had the Charge Errors and Reserve Errors described
above been recorded in the proper period, reported net income
would have increased by $0.8 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in
2000, $1.2 million ($0.02 per diluted share) in 2001 and
decreased by $3.4 million ($0.04 per diluted share) in 2002.  The
effect of recording the Reserve Errors and Charge Errors in 2003
reduced net income by $1.3 million ($0.02 per diluted share).

   The Company performed an analysis of the Charge Errors and
Reserve Errors on both a qualitative and quantitative basis and
concluded that the errors were not material to the results of
operations and financial position of the Company for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003.  Accordingly, prior
period financial statements have not been restated.

Discontinued Operations

   In December 2003, the Company entered into an agreement to sell
its Gendex equipment business to Danaher Corporation.
Additionally, the Company announced to its dental needle
customers that it was discontinuing production of dental needles.
The sale of the Gendex business and discontinuance of dental
needle production have been accounted for as discontinued
operations pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets". The results of operations for all periods presented have
been restated to reclassify the results of operations for both
the Gendex equipment and the dental needle businesses to
discontinued operations.

Reclassifications

Certain  other  reclassifications  have been made to prior  years'
data in order to conform to current year presentation.


RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS, 2003 COMPARED TO 2002

Net Sales

   The discussions below summarize the Company's sales growth,
excluding precious metals, from internal growth and net
acquisition growth and highlights the impact of foreign currency
translation.  These disclosures of net sales growth provide the
reader with sales results on a comparable basis between periods.

   As the presentation of net sales excluding precious metal
content could be considered a measure not calculated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (a
so-called non-GAAP measure), the Company provides the following
reconciliation of net sales to net sales excluding precious metal
content.  Our definitions and calculations of net sales excluding
precious metal content and other operating measures derived using
net sales excluding precious metal content may not necessarily be
the same as those used by other companies.

                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                    2003      2002     2001
                                                            (in millions)
Net Sales                                       $ 1,570.9  $ 1,417.6  $1,045.3
Precious Metal Content of Sales                    (205.0)    (187.1)    (50.7)
Net Sales Excluding Precious Metal Conten       $ 1,365.9  $ 1,230.5   $ 994.6


<PAGE>



   Management believes that the presentation of net sales
excluding precious metal content provides useful information to
investors because a significant portion of DENTSPLY's net sales
is comprised of sales of precious metals generated through sales
of the Company's precious metal alloy products, which are used by
third parties to construct crown and bridge materials.

    Due to the fluctuations of precious metal prices and because
the precious metal content of the Company's sales is largely a
pass-through to customers and has minimal effect on earnings,
DENTSPLY reports sales both with and without precious metal
content to show the Company's performance independent of precious
metal price volatility and to enhance comparability of
performance between periods.

   The Company uses its cost of precious metal purchased as a
proxy for the precious metal content of sales, as the precious
metal content of sales is not separately tracked and invoiced to
customers.  The Company believes that it is reasonable to use the
cost of precious metal content purchased in this manner since
precious metal alloy sale prices are adjusted when the prices of
underlying precious metals change.

   Net sales in 2003 increased $153.3 million, or 10.8%, to
$1,570.9 million. Net sales, excluding precious metal content,
increased $135.4 million, or 11.0%, to $1,365.9 million.  Sales
growth excluding precious metal content was comprised of 4.5%
internal growth, 6.6% foreign currency translation less 0.1% for
net acquisitions/divestitures.  The 4.5% internal growth was
comprised of 8.6% in Europe, 3.3% in the United States and 0.4%
for all other regions combined.

   The internal sales growth in 2003, excluding precious metal
content, was highest in Europe with strong growth in endodontic,
dental implant and certain laboratory products.   In the United
States internal sales growth was strongest in endodontic and
orthodontic products and other chairside consumables, offset by a
softening in sales to dental laboratories.  The market for dental
laboratory products tends to be the most sensitive to economic
cycles and contracted in the United States in 2003.


Gross Profit

   Gross  profit was  $773.2  million  in 2003  compared  to $704.4
million in 2002,  an  increase  of $68.8  million,  or 9.8%.  Gross
profit,  including  precious  metal content,  represented  49.2% of
net sales in 2003  compared to 49.7% in 2002.  The gross profit for
2003,  excluding  precious metal content,  represented 56.6% of net
sales  compared to 57.2% in 2002.  Gross  profit as reported  would
have  been  higher  by $2.8  million  in  2003  and  lower  by $5.4
million  in 2002 had the  Charge  Errors and  Reserve  Errors  been
recorded  in  the  proper  periods.  In  addition,  geographic  mix
negatively influenced gross margins in 2003 compared to 2002.

Operating Expenses


   Selling,  general and administrative  ("SG&A") expense increased
$43.8  million,  or 9.6%,  to $501.5  million  in 2003 from  $457.7
million  in 2002.  The 9.6%  increase  in  expenses,  as  reported,
reflects  increases for the  translation  impact from a weaker U.S.
dollar of  approximately  $35.3 million.  As a percentage of sales,
including  precious  metal  content,  SG&A  expenses  decreased  to
31.9%  compared  to  32.3%  in  2002.  As a  percentage  of  sales,
excluding  precious  metal  content,  SG&A  expenses  decreased  to
36.7%  compared  to 37.2% in 2002.  SG&A would have been  higher by
$0.8  million in 2003 and lower by $0.3  million  in 2002,  had the
Charge  Errors  and  Reserve  Errors  been  recorded  in the proper
periods.  The  leveraging  of general and  administrative  expenses
was  the  primary  reason  for  the  percentage  decrease  in  SG&A
expenses from 2002 to 2003.

   During 2003, the Company recorded  restructuring and other costs
of $3.7  million.  The  largest  portion of this was an  impairment
charge   related   to   certain   investments   made  in   emerging
technologies  that the Company no longer views as  recoverable.  In
addition,   in   December   2003,   the   Company   announced   the
consolidation  of its U.S.  laboratory  businesses  and  recorded a
charge for a portion of the costs to  complete  the  consolidation.
Based on the  restructuring  activities  undertaken  in  2003,  the
U.S.  laboratory   businesses  are  expected  to  incur  additional
restructuring  costs  of  approximately  $2.5  million  in  2004 to
complete the plan.  The Company  made the  decision to  consolidate
these  laboratory   businesses  in  order  to  improve  operational
efficiencies,  to broaden  customer  penetration  and to strengthen
customer  service.  Upon  completion,  which  is  expected  in late
2004,  this plan is  projected to result in future  annual  expense
reductions of approximately $1.5 million, primarily within SG&A.


<PAGE>



   During  2002,  the  Company  recorded  restructuring  and  other
income of $2.7  million,  including a $3.7  million  benefit  which
resulted  from  changes  in  estimates   related  to  prior  period
restructuring  initiatives,  offset  somewhat  by  a  restructuring
charge  for  the  combination  of the  CeraMed  and  U.S.  Friadent
divisions of $1.7 million.  In addition,  the Company  recognized a
gain of $0.7 million  related to the insurance  settlement for fire
damages sustained at the Company's  Maillefer  facility.  (see Note
16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

Other Income and Expenses

   Net interest expense and other expenses were $16.8 million in
2003 compared to $35.4 million in 2002.  The year 2003 included
$24.2 million of net interest expense, less $7.4 million of
income from PracticeWorks, Inc., including a $5.8 million pre-tax
gain realized and recognized in the fourth quarter of 2003 on the
sale of the Company's interest in PracticeWorks, Inc.  The year
2002 included: $27.4 million of net interest; $3.5 million of
currency transaction losses; a $1.1 million loss realized on the
share exchange with PracticeWorks, Inc.; and a $2.5 million
mark-to-market loss related to PracticeWorks warrants.

Earnings

   The effective tax rate decreased to 32.4% in 2003 from 32.9% in
2002.

   Income from continuing operations increased $26.3 million, or
18.3%, to $169.9 million in 2003 from $143.6 million in 2002.
Fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were
$2.11 in 2003, an increase of 17.2% from $1.80 in 2002.  Had the
Charge Errors and Reserve Errors described above been recorded in
the proper periods, income from continuing operations would have
been higher by $1.3 million ($.02 per diluted share) in 2003 and
lower by $3.4 million ($.04 per diluted share) in 2002.

Discontinued Operations

   The Company entered into an agreement to sell its Gendex
equipment business to Danaher Corporation in December, 2003, and
completed the transaction in the first quarter of 2004.  In
addition, the Company announced to its dental needle customers
that it was discontinuing production of dental needles.
Accordingly, the Gendex equipment and needle businesses have been
reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

   Income from discontinued operations was $4.3 million in both
2003 and 2002.  Fully diluted earnings per share from
discontinued operations were $.05 in both 2003 and 2002.

Operating Segment Results

   The Company has five operating groups, which are managed by
five Senior Vice Presidents and equate to our operating
segments.  Each of these operating groups covers a wide range of
product categories and geographic regions.  The product
categories and geographic regions often overlap across the
groups.  Further information regarding the details of each group
is presented in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The management of each group is evaluated for performance and
incentive compensation purposes on the net third party sales,
excluding precious metal content and segment operating income.

Dental Consumables--U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental

   Net sales for this group were $264.6 million in 2003, a 9.3%
increase compared to $242.1 million in 2002.  Internal growth was
2.8% and currency translation added 6.5% to sales in 2003.  The
U.S. consumables business had the highest growth in the group,
which was offset by lower sales in the Japanese market and low
growth in the non-dental business.


<PAGE>



   Operating profit increased $11.5 million to $82.4 million from
$70.9 million in 2002.  Sales growth in the U.S. dental
consumable business and gross margin improvement in the European
dental consumable business were the most significant contributors
to the increase.   Operating profit benefited from currency
translation.  Operating profit would have been lower by $2.7
million in 2003 and higher by $1.6 million in 2002 if the Reserve
Errors had been recorded in the proper period.

Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia

   Net sales for this group increased $23.9 million, or 6.7%, up
from $357.6 million in 2002.  Internal growth was 3.8% and
currency translation added 2.9% to 2003 sales.  Sales growth was
strongest in the endodontic business.  This was offset by lower
sales in the dental consumables business due to aggressive
competitive pressures in the U.S. market.

   Operating profit was $154.0 million, an increase of $12.4
million from $141.6 million in 2002.  Continued growth in the
endodontic business was primarily responsible for the increase.
In addition, operating profit benefited from currency translation
partially offset by the negative currency impact of intercompany
transactions.   Operating profit would have been lower by $0.7
million in 2003 and lower by $0.6 million in 2002 if the Reserve
Errors had been recorded in the proper period.

Dental Consumables--United Kingdom, France, Italy, CIS, Middle
East, Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business

   Net sales for this group were $307.0 million in 2003, a 27.3%
increase compared to $241.1 million in 2002. Internal growth was
7.0% and currency translation added 19.9% to sales in 2003.  The
primary reason for the sales growth was strong sales performance
in Germany, France, CIS and Africa.

   Operating profit increased $19.2 million to $30.6 million from
$11.4 million in 2002.  The primary reason for the profit
improvement was sales increases and margin improvement in the
European dental laboratory business including improvements from
the consolidation of the historical Dentsply tooth business in
Europe into the DeguDent business.  In addition, operating profit
benefited from currency translation.  Operating profit would have
been lower by $0.3 million in 2003 if the Charge Errors and
Reserve Errors had been recorded in the proper period.

Australia/Canada/Latin America/Pharmaceutical

   Net sales for this group increased $4.8 million, or 4.4%,
compared to $108.5 million in 2002.  Internal growth was 3.6% and
currency translation added 0.8% to 2003 sales.  Sales were
strongest in the U.S. pharmaceutical business and in Latin
America.  Canada and Australia experienced slower sales growth.

   Operating profit was $12.0 million, a $2.8 million decrease
from $14.8 million in 2002.  Lower operating margins in Latin
America hurt profitability.  Operating profit would have been
higher by $1.0 million in 2003 and lower by $0.7 million in 2002
if the Charge Errors and Reserve Errors had been recorded in the
proper period.

U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics

   Net sales for this group were $278.7 million in 2003, a 6.9%
increase compared to $260.7 million in 2002.  Internal growth was
3.2% and currency translation added 3.7% to sales in 2003.  Sales
growth was adversely impacted by the soft U.S. dental laboratory
market.  Sales growth for implants in Europe and the orthodontic
business showed continued strong sales growth.


<PAGE>



   Operating profit decreased $8.8 million to $41.4 million from
$50.2 million in 2002.  The soft U.S. dental laboratory market
and the negative currency impact of intercompany transactions
adversely impacted operating profit.  Operating profit would have
been higher by $4.7 million in 2003 and lower by $5.3 million in
2002 if the Charge Errors and Reserve Errors had been booked in
the proper period.


RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS, 2002 COMPARED TO 2001

Net Sales

   Net  sales  in 2002  increased  $372.3  million,  or  35.6%,  to
$1,417.6  million.  Net sales,  excluding  precious  metal content,
increased  $235.9  million,  or 23.7%,  to  $1,230.5  million.  The
growth in sales,  excluding  precious metal content,  was driven by
internal  growth of 6.7%,  15.8%  growth  from  acquisitions  and a
1.2%  positive  impact from currency  translation  as several major
currencies  strengthened  against the U.S.  dollar during the year.
The 6.7% of  internal  growth was  comprised  of 9.0% in the United
States,  6.6% in Europe,  and 1.1% for all other regions  combined.
Internal   growth  for  the  dental  business  was  7.1%  excluding
precious metal content.

   The internal sales growth in 2002, excluding precious metal
content, was highest in United States, with strong growth in
endodontic and orthodontic products and other chairside
consumable products. In Europe internal sales growth was 6.6%
with strong sales gains in endodontic and orthodontic products,
implants, and other chairside consumable products. The internal
sales growth, excluding precious metal content, in all other
regions was 1.1%, with strong sales growth in Canada and Japan
offset by softening sales in Latin America and the Middle East
regions.

Gross Profit

   Gross  profit was  $704.4  million  in 2002  compared  to $542.8
million in 2001,  an increase of $161.6  million,  or 29.8%.  Gross
profit,  including  precious  metal content,  represented  49.7% of
net sales in 2002  compared  to 51.9% in 2001.  The decline in 2002
is due to the inclusion of the Degussa  Dental  business for a full
year  versus  just  one  quarter  in  2001  and  the  corresponding
relatively  high precious metal content of Degussa  Dental's sales.
Gross  profit  for  2002,   excluding   precious   metal   content,
represented  57.2% of net  sales  compared  to  54.6% in 2001.  The
gross profit margin in 2002,  excluding the precious  metal content
pass  through,   benefited  from  new  product   introductions,   a
favorable  product  mix,  and  the  integration  and  restructuring
benefits  related to  acquisitions  completed over the past several
years.  The  2001  period  included  the  negative  impact  of  the
amortization   of  the  Friadent  and  Degussa   Dental   inventory
step-ups  recorded in connecton  with  purchase  price  accounting.
Gross  profit as reported  would have been lower by $5.4 million in
2002 and higher by $1.8  million in 2001 had the Charge  Errors and
Reserve Errors been recorded in the proper periods.

Operating Expenses

   Selling,  general and administrative  ("SG&A") expense increased
$90.1  million,  or 24.5%,  to $457.7  million in 2002 from  $367.6
million  in 2001.  As a  percentage  of sales,  including  precious
metal content,  SG&A expenses  decreased to 32.3% compared to 35.2%
in 2001.  This  decrease  is mainly due to the  discontinuation  of
goodwill and  indefinite-lived  intangible  asset  amortization  in
2002,  which in 2001 amounted to $17.6 million ($13.8 million,  net
of  tax).  As a  percentage  of  sales,  excluding  precious  metal
content,  SG&A  expenses  increased  to 37.2%  compared to 37.0% in
2001.  This increase was  primarily  driven by the inclusion of the
Degussa  Dental  business,   and  its  higher  SG&A  expense  ratio
(excluding  precious  metal  content),  for a full year  versus one
quarter in 2001,  offset by the  discontinuation  of  goodwill  and
indefinite-lived   intangible  asset  amortization  in  2002.  This
increase  was  also  reflective  of  higher   insurance  and  legal
expenses  in 2002.  SG&A would  have been lower by $0.3  million in
2002 and lower by $0.1 million in 2001,  had the Charge  Errors and
Reserve Errors been recorded in the proper periods.


<PAGE>



   During  2002,  the  Company  recorded  restructuring  and  other
income of $2.7  million,  including  $3.7  million  which  resulted
from  changes in estimates  related to prior  period  restructuring
initiatives,  offset  somewhat  by a  restructuring  charge for the
combination  of the CeraMed  and U.S.  Friadent  divisions  of $1.7
million.  In  addition,  the  Company  recognized  a gain  of  $0.7
million  related  to the  insurance  settlement  for  fire  damages
sustained  at the  Company's  Maillefer  facility.  The 2001 period
included  a  restructuring   charge  of  $5.5  million  to  improve
efficiencies  in  Europe,   Brazil  and  North  America  and  $11.5
million of restructuring  and other costs primarily  related to the
Degussa Dental  acquisition and its integration  with DENTSPLY.  An
additional  cost of $2.4  million was  recorded  for a payment made
at the point of  regulatory  filings  related to Oraqix,  a product
for   which   the   Company   acquired   rights  in  the  AZ  Asset
acquisition.  These  charges  were offset by a gain of $8.5 million
related  to  the   restructuring  of  the  Company's  U.K.  pension
arrangements   and  a  gain  of  $5.8   million  for  an  insurance
settlement  for  equipment  destroyed in the fire at the  Company's
Maillefer  facility in  Switzerland.  The above items in 2001, on a
net basis,  amount to charges of $5.1  million  (see Note 16 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements).

Other Income and Expenses

   Net  interest  expense  increased  $9.1  million  in 2002 due to
higher debt levels  associated with the  acquisition  activities in
2002 and 2001.  Other income  decreased  $35.5 million in 2002, due
primarily  to income  recognized  in 2001 of $24.5  million  ($15.1
million,  net of tax) which  included a $23.1 million gain from the
sale  of  Infosoft,  LLC  and  a  $1.4  million  minority  interest
benefit  related to an  intangible  impairment  charge  included in
restructuring  and other  costs.  Other  income and expense in 2002
also  included  a  $4.7  million  unfavorable  change  in  currency
transaction  gain/loss resulting from the significant  weakening of
the U.S.  dollar  in 2002,  a $1.1  million  loss  realized  on the
share  exchange  with  PracticeWorks,  Inc.  and a net loss of $2.5
million on  mark-to-market  adjustment for the warrants received in
the  transaction.  Also  contributing  to  the  decrease  in  other
income  in  2002  was  a  decrease  of  $0.8   million  in  accrued
dividends  related  to  the  PracticeWorks,  Inc.  preferred  stock
prior to the time of the PracticeWorks share exchange.

Earnings

   The effective tax rate  decreased to 32.9% in 2002 from 34.4% in
2001.  This decrease was largely related to the  discontinuance  of
goodwill  amortization  in  2002,  which  in  the  past  negatively
impacted  the  effective  tax rate since much of this  amortization
was non-deductible for tax purposes.

   Net income from continuing operations increased $25.9 million,
or 22.0%, to $143.6 million in 2002 from $117.7 million in 2001.
Fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were
$1.80 in 2002, an increase of 20.8% from $1.49 in 2001. Had the
Charge Errors and Reserve Errors described above been recorded in
the proper periods, net income from continuing operations would
have been lower by $3.4 million ($.04 per diluted share) in 2002
and higher by $1.2 million ($.02 per diluted share) in 2001.

Discontinued Operations

   Net income from discontinued operations was $4.3 million in
2002 compared to $3.8 million in 2001.  Fully diluted earnings
per share from discontinued operations were $.05 in both 2002 and
2001.

Operating Segment Results

Dental Consumables--U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental

   Net sales for the group were $242.1 million in 2002, a 27.0%
increase compared to $190.7 million in 2001.  Internal growth was
6.3%, currency translation added 6.3% and acquisitions added
14.4% to sales in 2002.  Sales of dental consumables in the U.S.
and Europe and sales in Japan had strong growth.  This was
partially offset by soft sales of non-dental products.


<PAGE>



   Operating profit increased $11.1 million to $70.9 million from
$59.8 million in 2001.  The two primary reasons for this increase
are the higher margins associated with the dental consumables
sales increase and a full year of sales in 2002 for the Sankin
business in Japan which was acquired as part of the Degussa
Dental acquisition on October 1, 2001.  Operating profit would
have been higher by $1.6 million in 2002 and higher by $0.5
million in 2001 if the Reserve Errors had been recorded in the
proper period.

Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia

   Net sales for this group increased $41.3 million, or 13.1%, up
from $316.3 million in 2001.  Internal growth was 11.1%, currency
translation added 1.5% and acquisitions added 0.5% to 2002
sales.  The endodontics business experienced substantial growth
during 2002, especially in the U.S. and Europe.

   Operating profit was $141.6 million, an increase of $31.5
million from $110.1 million in 2002.  The increase was a result
of the strong growth in high margin endodontic products.  In
addition, operating profit benefited from currency translation.
Operating profit would have been lower by $0.6 million in 2002
and higher by $1.3 million in 2001 if the Reserve Errors had been
recorded in the proper period.

Dental Consumables--United Kingdom, France, Italy, CIS, Middle
East, Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business

   Net sales for this group were $241.1 million in 2002, a 72.8%
increase compared to $139.5 million in 2001.  Internal growth was
0.6%, currency translation added 1.9% and acquisitions added
70.3% to 2002 sales.  The Company acquired the Degussa Dental
business in October, 2001, which competes primarily in the
European dental laboratory market.  This market was soft during
2002.

   Operating profit increased to $11.4 million in 2002 from
breakeven in 2001.  The increase was primarily due to improved
margins and a full year of operations in 2002 for the Degussa
Dental business compared to three months in 2001.  In addition,
operating profit benefited from currency translation.  Operating
profit would have been higher by $0.3 in 2001 if the Charge
Errors and Reserve Errors had been recorded in the proper period.

Australia/Canada/Latin America/Pharmaceutical

   Net sales for this group decreased $13.5 million, or 11.1%,
compared to $122.0 million in 2001. Internal growth was 4.7%,
acquisitions added 6.8%, while currency translation had a
negative impact of 22.6% on sales mainly due to the devaluation
in the currencies of Latin America.  Internal growth came mainly
from the Canadian, Australian and U.S. pharmaceutical businesses
offset partially by the softening Latin American economies.

   Operating profit was $14.8 million, a $5.4 million decrease
from $20.2 million in 2001.  The main reason for the decrease was
the redistribution in 2002 of the non-U.S. pharmaceutical
business across the other operating groups.  In 2001, the
worldwide pharmaceutical business was accounted for in this
group.  In addition, operating profit was negatively impacted
from currency translation as a result of the devalued Latin
American currencies.  Operating profit would have been lower by
$0.7 million in 2002 and lower by $0.5 million in 2001 had the
Charge Errors and Reserve Errors been recorded in the proper
period.

U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics

   Net sales for this group were $260.7 million in 2002, a 24.6%
increase compared to $209.2 million in 2001.  Internal growth was
7.4%, currency translation added 6.1% and acquisitions added
11.1% to 2002 sales.  The internal growth came mainly from
significant growth in both the implant and orthodontic
businesses.  Acquisition growth came from the acquisition of
Degussa Dental in October, 2001.


<PAGE>



   Operating profit increased $8.2 million to $50.2 million from
$42.0 million in 2001.  The increase primarily came from the
significant increase in sales of the implant and orthodontic
businesses. In addition, operating profit benefited from currency
translation.  Operating profit would have been lower by $5.3
million in 2002 and higher by $0.2 million in 2001 had the Charge
Errors and Reserve Errors been reported in the proper period.



FOREIGN CURRENCY

   Since  approximately  55% of the  Company's  2003  revenues were
generated in currencies  other than the U.S.  dollar,  the value of
the U.S.  dollar  in  relation  to  those  currencies  affects  the
results  of  operations  of the  Company.  The  impact of  currency
fluctuations   in   any   given   period   can  be   favorable   or
unfavorable.   The  impact  of  foreign  currency  fluctuations  of
European  currencies  on operating  income is  partially  offset by
sales in the U.S. of products  sourced  from plants and third party
suppliers  located overseas,  principally in Germany,  Switzerland,
and the  Netherlands.  On a net basis,  net income  benefited  from
changes in currency  translation  in both 2003 and 2002 compared to
the prior year.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES

   The  Company  has  identified  below  the  accounting  estimates
believed   to  be  critical   to  its   business   and  results  of
operations.  These critical  estimates  represent those  accounting
policies that involve the most complex or  subjective  decisions or
assessments.

Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets

   Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets". This statement requires that the
amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets
be discontinued and instead an annual impairment approach be
applied. The Company performed the annual impairment tests during
2002 and 2003, as required, and no impairment was identified.
These impairment tests are based upon a fair value approach
rather than an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows. If
impairment is identified under SFAS 142, the resulting charge is
determined by recalculating goodwill through a hypothetical
purchase price allocation of the fair value and reducing the
current carrying value to the extent it exceeds the recalculated
goodwill. If impairment is identified on indefinite-lived
intangibles, the resulting charge reflects the excess of the
asset's carrying cost over its fair value.

   Other long-lived assets, such as identifiable intangible assets
and fixed assets, are amortized or depreciated over their
estimated useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or circumstances provide evidence that suggest
that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable with
impairment being based upon an evaluation of the identifiable
undiscounted cash flows. If impaired, the resulting charge
reflects the excess of the asset's carrying cost over its fair
value.

   If market conditions become less favorable, future cash flows,
the key variable in assessing the impairment of these assets, may
decrease and as a result the Company may be required to recognize
impairment charges.    The Company's impairment tests relating to
the perpetual license rights to the trademarks and formulations
for dental anaesthetic products acquired from Astra Zeneca in
2001 are highly sensitive to cash flow assumptions resulting from
the sale of these products and the Company's success in
completing and starting up a greenfield sterile filling plant to
produce these products in the United States.



<PAGE>


Inventories

   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  The
cost of inventories is determined primarily by the first-in,
first-out ("FIFO") or average cost methods, with a small portion
being determined by the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method. The
Company establishes reserves for inventory estimated to be
obsolete or unmarketable equal to the difference between the cost
of inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions
about future demand and market conditions. If actual market
conditions are less favorable than those anticipated, additional
inventory reserves may be required.

Accounts Receivable

   The Company sells dental equipment and supplies primarily
through a worldwide network of distributors, although certain
product lines are sold directly to the end user. For customers on
credit terms, the Company performs ongoing credit evaluation of
those customers' financial condition and generally does not
require collateral from them.  The Company establishes allowances
for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the
inability of its customers to make required payments. If the
financial condition of the Company's customers were to
deteriorate, their ability to make required payments may become
impaired, and increases in these allowances may be required. In
addition, a negative impact on sales to those customers may
occur.

Accruals for Product Returns, Customer Rebates and Product
Warranties

   The Company makes provisions for customer returns, customer
rebates and for product warranties at the time of sale.   These
accruals are based on past history, projections of customer
purchases and sales and expected product performance in the
future.  Because the actual results for product returns, rebates
and warranties are dependent in part on future events, these
matters require the use of estimates.   The Company has a long
history of product performance in the dental industry and thus
has an extensive knowledge base from which to draw in measuring
these estimates.

Income Taxes

   Income taxes are  determined  in  accordance  with  Statement of
Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  109  ("SFAS  109"),  which
requires   recognition  of  deferred  income  tax  liabilities  and
assets for the  expected  future tax  consequences  of events  that
have been  included in the  financial  statements  or tax  returns.
Under this method,  deferred  income tax liabilities and assets are
determined  based on the difference  between  financial  statements
and tax bases of  liabilities  and assets  using  enacted tax rates
in effect for the year in which the  differences  are  expected  to
reverse.  SFAS 109 also  provides for the  recognition  of deferred
tax assets if it is more  likely  than not that the assets  will be
realized  in  future   years.   A  valuation   allowance  has  been
established  for deferred tax assets for which  realization  is not
likely.  In  assessing  the  valuation  allowance,  the Company has
considered   future   taxable   income  and  ongoing  tax  planning
strategies.  Changes in these  circumstances,  such as a decline in
future  taxable  income,  may  result  in an  additional  valuation
allowance  being  required.  As of December 31,  2003,  the Company
had  recorded  a  valuation   allowance  of  $9.6  million  on  net
operating  carryforwards of its foreign  subsidiaries,  essentially
fully  reserving  these  losses.   If  profitability   improves  in
those  foreign  subsidiaries  in the future,  some,  or all, of the
valuation   allowance  may  be  reversed  to  income.   Except  for
certain   earnings   that   the   Company   intends   to   reinvest
indefinitely,  provision  has  been  made  for the  estimated  U.S.
federal  income  tax   liabilities   applicable  to   undistributed
earnings of  affiliates  and  associated  companies.  Judgement  is
required in assessing  the future tax  consequences  of events that
have been  recognized in our  financial  statements or tax returns.
If the outcome of these  future tax  consequences  differs from our
estimates  the  outcome  could  materially   impact  our  financial
position  or our results of  operations.  In  addition,  we operate
within  multiple taxing  jurisdictions  and are subject to audit in
these   jurisdictions.   We  record   accruals  for  the  estimated
outcomes  of  these  audits  and the  accruals  may  change  in the
future due to the outcome of these audits.


<PAGE>



Litigation

   The Company and its subsidiaries are from time to time parties
to lawsuits arising out of their respective operations. The
Company records liabilities when a loss is probable and can be
reasonably estimated. These estimates made by management are
based on an analysis made by internal and external legal counsel
which considers information known at the time. The Company
believes it has estimated any liabilities for probable losses
well in the past; however, the unpredictability of court
decisions could cause liability to be incurred in excess of
estimates.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

   Cash flows from operating activities during the year ended
December 31, 2003 were $258.0 million compared to $173.0 million
during the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase of $85.0
million results primarily from increased earnings and deferred
taxes and more favorable working capital changes versus the prior
year specifically with respect to accounts receivable,
inventories and accounts payable.

   Investing  activities,  for the year ended  December  31,  2003,
include  capital   expenditures  of  $76.6  million.   The  Company
expects  that  capital   expenditures  will  be  approximately  $65
million  in 2004.  Net  acquisition  activity  for the  year  ended
December 31, 2003 was $17.4  million  which relates to the purchase
of  one of  the  Company's  suppliers,  additional  investments  in
partially  owned  subsidiaries,  a payment  related  to the  Oraqix
agreement  and  the  final  payment   related  the  Degussa  Dental
acquisition.  In December  2003,  final  payments of $16.0  million
became due to  AstraZeneca  upon the approval of Oraqix by the Food
and Drug  Administration  in the United  States,  and  accordingly,
the  Company  accrued the  payments  in December  2003 and made the
payments  in  January   2004  (see  Note  3  to  the   Consolidated
Financial  Statements).  In  addition,  during the fourth  quarter,
the Company  received  $23.5  million in  proceeds  from its common
stock and  warrant  holdings  in  PracticeWorks  as a result of the
Eastman  Kodak   acquisition.   In  February   2004,   the  Company
completed  the sale of its Gendex  equipment  business and received
cash proceeds of $102.5 million.

   The Company's long-term debt increased by $20.4 million during
the year ended December 31, 2003 to $790.2 million. This net
change included an increase of $109.8 million due to exchange
rate fluctuations on debt denominated in foreign currencies and
changes in the value of interest rate swaps, net of $70.1 million
of debt payments made during the year. During the year ended
December 31, 2003, the Company's ratio of long-term debt to total
capitalization decreased to 41.3% compared to 47.9% at December
31, 2002.

   Under  its  multi-currency   revolving  credit  agreement,   the
Company  is able to  borrow  up to $250  million  through  May 2006
("the five-year  facility") and $250 million through May 2004 ("the
364 day facility").  The 364-day  facility  terminates in May 2004,
but  may  be   extended,   subject  to  certain   conditions,   for
additional  periods of 364 days.  This revolving  credit  agreement
is unsecured and contains  various  financial and other  covenants.
The Company  also has  available an  aggregate  $250 million  under
two commercial paper  facilities;  a $250 million U.S. facility and
a $250 million U.S. dollar  equivalent  European facility ("Euro CP
facility").   Under  the  Euro  CP  facility,   borrowings  can  be
denominated in Swiss francs,  Japanese yen,  Euros,  British pounds
and U.S.  dollars.  The  364-day  facility  serves as a back-up  to
these  commercial  paper  facilities.  The total  available  credit
under the commercial  paper  facilities and the 364-day facility in
the  aggregate  is $250 million and no debt was  outstanding  under
these facilities at December 31, 2003.

   The  Company  also has access to $88.0  million  in  uncommitted
short-term  financing under lines of credit from various  financial
institutions.  The lines of credit have no major  restrictions  and
are  provided  under  demand  notes  between  the  Company  and the
lending institutions.

   The  Company  had  unused  lines of  credit  of  $472.0  million
available  at  December  31,  2003  contingent  upon the  Company's
compliance  with  certain   affirmative   and  negative   covenants
relating  to its  operations  and  financial  condition.  The  most
restrictive  of these  covenants  pertain  to  asset  dispositions,
maintenance of certain levels of net worth,  and prescribed  ratios
of  indebtedness  to  total  capital  and  operating   income  plus
depreciation  and  amortization  to interest  expense.  At December
31, 2003, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.



<PAGE>



        The following table presents the Company's scheduled contractual cash
obligations at December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                          Greater
                                       Less Than      1-3        3-5        Than
Contractual Obligations                  1 Year      Years      Years     5 Years     Total
                                                              (in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Long-term debt                          $ 22,780   $743,831   $ 44,727   $   --     $811,338
Operating leases                          18,115     19,633      7,385      6,830   $ 51,963
Precious metal consignment agreements     61,300       --         --         --     $ 61,300
                                        $102,195   $763,464   $ 52,112   $  6,830   $924,601
</TABLE>

   Upon acquiring Degussa Dental in October 2001, Dentsply
management changed Degussa Dental's practice of holding a long
position in precious metals used in the production of precious
metal alloy products, to holding the precious metal on a
consignment basis from various financial institutions. In
connection with this change in practice, the Company sold certain
precious metals to various financial institutions in the fourth
quarter of 2001 for a value of $41.8 million and in the first
quarter of 2002 for a value of $6.8 million. These transactions
effectively transferred the price risk on the precious metals to
the financial institutions and allow the Company to acquire the
precious metal at approximately the same time and for the same
price as alloys are sold to the Company's customers. In the event
that the financial institutions would discontinue offering these
consignment arrangements, and if the Company could not obtain
other comparable arrangements, the Company may be required to
obtain financing to fund an ownership position in the required
precious metal inventory levels. At December 31, 2003, the value
of the consigned precious metals held by the Company was $61.3
million.

   The Company's cash increased $138.1 million during the year
ended December 31, 2003 to $163.8 million. The Company
accumulated cash in 2003 rather than reduce debt due to
pre-payment penalties that would be incurred in retiring debt and
the related interest rate swap agreements. The Company
anticipates that cash will continue to build throughout 2004.

   The Company  expects on an ongoing basis,  to be able to finance
cash   requirements,    including   capital   expenditures,   stock
repurchases,  debt service,  operating  leases and potential future
acquisitions,   from  the  funds   generated  from  operations  and
amounts available under its existing credit facilities.


NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

   In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN 46"), "Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51". The
primary objectives of this interpretation are to provide guidance
on the identification of entities for which control is achieved
through means other than through voting rights ("variable
interest entities") and how to determine when and which business
enterprise should consolidate the variable interest entity (the
"primary beneficiary"). This new model for consolidation applies
to an entity which either (1) the equity investors (if any) do
not have a controlling financial interest or (2) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity's
activities without receiving additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. In addition, FIN 46 requires that
both the primary beneficiary and all other enterprises with a
significant variable interest in a variable interest entity make
additional disclosures. Certain disclosure requirements of FIN 46
are effective for financial statements issued after January 31,
2003. The remaining provisions of FIN 46 are effective
immediately for all variable interests in entities created after
January 31, 2003. Adoption of this provision did not have an
effect on the Company. In December 2003, the FASB released a
revised version of FIN 46, FIN 46R, to clarify certain aspects of
FIN 46 and to provide certain entities with exemptions from the
requirements of FIN 46. FIN 46R requires the application of
either FIN 46 or FIN 46R to all Special Purpose Entitied
("SPE's") created prior to February 1, 2003 at the end of the
first interim or annual reporting period ending after December
15, 2003. Adoption of this provision did not have an effect on
the Company. FIN 46R will be applicable to all non-SPE entities
created prior to February 1, 2003 at the end of the first interim
or annual reporting period ending after March 15, 2004. The
Company does not expect the application of this portion of FIN
46R to have a material impact on the Company's financial
statements.


<PAGE>



   In April 2003, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". The statement
amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities". Specifically, the statement clarifies under what
circumstances a contract with an initial net investment meets the
characteristic of a derivative. In addition, it clarifies when a
derivative contains a financing component that warrants special
reporting in the statement of cash flows. SFAS 149 is effective
for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. The
Application of this standard has not had a material impact on the
Company's financial statements.

   In May 2003, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 150 ("SFAS 150"), " Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
and Equity". This Statement establishes standards for how an
issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires that
an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its
scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). Many of
those instruments were previously classified as equity. Adoption
of the provisions of SFAS No. 150 in the third quarter of 2003
related to mandatorily redeemable financial instruments had no
effect on the Company's financial statements. In November 2003,
the FASB issued FSP No. 150-3, "Effective Date, Disclosures and
Transition for Mandatorily Redeemable Financial Instruments of
Certain Nonpublic Entities and Certain Mandatorily Redeemable
Noncontrolling Interests under FASB Statement No. 150, Accounting
for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both
Liabilities and Equity". For public companies, FSP 150-3 deferred
the provisions of SFAS 150 related to classification and
measurement of certain mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling
interests issued prior to November 5, 2003. For mandatorily
redeemable noncontrolling interests issued after November 5,
2003, SFAS 150 applies without any deferral. The Company
continues to analyze the provisions of SFAS 150 related to
mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests, but does not
believe that application of these provisions will have a material
impact on the Company's financial statements.

   In January 2004, the FASB released FASB Staff Position ("FSP")
No. 106-1, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003." SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions" requires a company to consider
current changes in applicable laws when measuring its
postretirement benefit costs and accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation. However, because of uncertainties of the
effect of the provisions of the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the "Act") on plan
sponsors and certain accounting issues raised by the Act, FSP
106-1 allows plan sponsors to elect a one-time deferral of the
accounting for the Act. The Company is electing the deferral
provided by FSP 106-1 to analyze the impact of the Act on
prescription drug coverage provided to a limited number of
retirees from one of its business units. The Company does not
expect the Act to have a material impact on the Company's
postretiremenent benefits liabilities or the Company's financial
statements.



<PAGE>



QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK


   The information below provides information about the Company's
market sensitive financial instruments and includes
"forward-looking statements" that involve risks and
uncertainties.  Actual results could differ materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements.  The Company's major
market risk exposures are changing interest rates, movements in
foreign currency exchange rates and potential price volatility of
commodities used by the Company in its manufacturing processes.
The Company's policy is to manage interest rates through the use
of floating rate debt and interest rate swaps to adjust interest
rate exposures when appropriate, based upon market conditions.  A
portion of the Company's borrowings are denominated in foreign
currencies which expose the Company to market risk associated
with exchange rate movements.  The Company's policy generally is
to hedge major foreign currency exposures through foreign
exchange forward contracts.  These contracts are entered into
with major financial institutions thereby minimizing the risk of
credit loss. In order to limit the unanticipated earnings
fluctuations from volatility in commodity prices, the Company
selectively enters into commodity price swaps to convert variable
raw material costs to fixed costs. The Company does not hold or
issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading
purposes.  The Company is subject to other foreign exchange
market risk exposure in addition to the risks on its financial
instruments, such as possible impacts on its pricing and
production costs, which are difficult to reasonably predict, and
have therefore not been included in the table below. All items
described are non-trading and are stated in U.S. dollars.

Financial Instruments
   The fair value of financial instruments is determined by
reference to various market data and other valuation techniques
as appropriate. The Company believes the carrying amounts of cash
and cash equivalents, accounts receivable (net of allowance for
doubtful accounts), prepaid expenses and other current assets,
accounts payable, accrued liabilities, income taxes payable and
notes payable approximate fair value due to the short-term nature
of these instruments.  The Company estimates the fair value of
its total long-term debt was $815.8 million versus its carrying
value of $811.3 million as of December 31, 2003. The fair value
approximated the carrying value since much of the Company's debt
is variable rate and reflects current market rates. The fixed
rate Eurobonds are effectively converted to variable rate as a
result of an interest rate swap and the interest rates on
revolving debt and commercial paper are variable and therefore
the fair value of these instruments approximates their carrying
values. The Company has fixed rate Swiss franc and Japanese yen
denominated notes with estimated fair values that differ from
their carrying values. At December 31, 2003, the fair value of
these instruments was $241.8 million versus their carrying values
of $237.4 million. The fair values differ from the carrying
values due to lower market interest rates at December 31, 2003
versus the rates at issuance of the notes.

Derivative Financial Instruments
   The Company employs  derivative  financial  instruments to hedge
certain anticipated transactions,  firm commitments,  or assets and
liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies.  Additionally,  the
Company  utilizes  interest  rate  swaps to convert  floating  rate
debt to  fixed  rate,  fixed  rate  debt to  floating  rate,  cross
currency  basis swaps to convert debt  denominated  in one currency
to another  currency  and  commodity  swaps to fix its variable raw
materials.

      Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management  The Company  enters into
   forward foreign exchange  contracts to selectively  hedge assets
   and  liabilities  denominated  in  foreign  currencies.   Market
   value gains and losses are  recognized  in income  currently and
   the resulting  gains or losses offset foreign  exchange gains or
   losses   recognized   on  the   foreign   currency   assets  and
   liabilities  hedged.  Determination  of hedge  activity is based
   upon market  conditions,  the magnitude of the foreign  currency
   assets  and  liabilities  and  perceived  risks.  The  Company's
   significant  contracts  outstanding  as of December 31, 2003 are
   summarized  in the table that follows.  These  foreign  exchange
   contracts  generally have  maturities of less than twelve months
   and  counterparties  to the  transactions  are  typically  large
   international financial institutions.


<PAGE>



      The Company has numerous investments in foreign
   subsidiaries.  The net assets of these subsidiaries are exposed
   to volatility in currency exchange rates.  Currently, the
   Company uses both non-derivative financial instruments,
   including foreign currency denominated debt held at the parent
   company level and long-term intercompany loans, for which
   settlement is not planned or anticipated in the foreseeable
   future and derivative financial instruments to hedge some of
   this exposure.  Translation gains and losses related to the net
   assets of the foreign subsidiaries are offset by gains and
   losses in the non-derivative and derivative financial
   instruments designated as hedges of net investments.

      At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had Swiss
   franc-denominated and Japanese yen-denominated debt (at the
   parent company level) to hedge the currency exposure related to
   a designated portion of the net assets of its Swiss and
   Japanese subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2003, the Company also
   had Euro-denominated debt designated as a hedge of a designated
   portion of the net assets of its European subsidiaries, due to
   the change in the cross-currency element of the integrated
   transaction discussed below.  At December 31, 2003 and 2002,
   the accumulated translation losses related
   to foreign currency denominated-debt included in Accumulated
   Other Comprehensive income (loss) were $83.5 million and $26.4
   million, respectively.

      Interest Rate Risk  Management The Company uses interest rate
   swaps to  convert a portion of its  variable  rate debt to fixed
   rate debt.  As of December 31, 2003,  the Company has two groups
   of  significant  variable  rate  to  fixed  rate  interest  rate
   swaps.  One of the groups of swaps was  entered  into in January
   2000 and  February  2001,  has a notional  amount  totaling  180
   million Swiss francs,  and  effectively  converts the underlying
   variable  interest rates on the debt to a fixed rate of 3.3% for
   a period of  approximately  four  years.  The other  significant
   group of swaps  entered  into in  February  2002,  has  notional
   amounts  totaling  12.6 billion  Japanese  yen, and  effectively
   converts the  underlying  variable  interest rates to an average
   fixed  rate  of  1.6%  for a  term  of ten  years.  As  part  of
   entering  into the  Japanese  yen swaps in  February  2002,  the
   Company  entered  into  reverse  swap  agreements  with the same
   terms to offset 115  million of the 180  million of Swiss  franc
   swaps.  Additionally,  in the third quarter of 2003, the Company
   exchanged  the  remaining  portion of the Swiss franc swaps,  65
   million Swiss francs, for a  forward-starting  variable to fixed
   interest  rate swap.  Completion  of this  exchange  allowed the
   Company to pay down debt and the forward-starting  interest rate
   swap  locks in the rate of  borrowing  for  future  Swiss  franc
   variable  rate debt,  that will arise upon the  maturity  of the
   Company's  fixed rate Swiss franc  notes in 2005,  at 4.2% for a
   term of seven years.

      The Company uses interest rate swaps to convert a portion of
   its fixed rate debt to variable rate debt.  In December 2001,
   the Company issued 350 million in Eurobonds at a fixed rate of
   5.75% maturing in December 2006 to partially finance the
   Degussa Dental acquisition.  Coincident with the issuance of
   the Eurobonds, the Company entered into two integrated
   transactions:  (a) an interest rate swap agreement with
   notional amounts totaling Euro 350 million which converted the
   5.75% fixed rate Euro-denominated financing to a variable rate
   (based on the London Interbank Borrowing Rate) Euro-denominated
   financing; and (b) a cross-currency basis swap which converted
   this variable rate Euro-denominated financing to variable rate
   U.S. dollar-denominated financing.

      The Euro 350 million interest rate swap agreement was
   designated as a fair value hedge of the Euro 350 million in
   fixed rate debt pursuant to SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
   Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 133).
   In accordance with SFAS No. 133, the interest rate swap and
   underlying Eurobond have been marked-to-market via the income
   statement.  As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the accumulated
   fair value of the interest rate swap was $14.1 million and
   $10.9 million, respectively, and was recorded in Other
   Noncurrent Assets.  The notional amount of the underlying
   Eurobond was increased by a corresponding amount at December
   31, 2003 and 2002.

      From inception through the first quarter of 2003, the
   cross-currency element of the integrated transaction was not
   designated as a hedge and changes in the fair value of the
   cross-currency element of the integrated transaction were
   marked-to-market in the income statement, offsetting the impact
   of the change in exchange rates on the Eurobonds that were also
   recorded in the income statement. As of December 31, 2003 and
   2002, the accumulated fair value of the cross-currency element
   of the integrated transaction was $56.6 million and $52.3
   million, respectively, and was recorded in Other Noncurrent
   Assets.  The notional amount of the underlying Eurobond was
   increased by a corresponding amount at December 31, 2003 and
   2002.See Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations below
   for further information related to the cross-currency element
   of the integrated transaction.


<PAGE>



      In the first quarter of 2003, the Company amended the
   cross-currency element of the integrated transaction to realize
   the $ 51.8 million of accumulated value of the cross-currency
   swap.  The amendment eliminated the final payment (at a fixed
   rate of $.90) of $315 million by the Company in exchange for
   the final payment of Euro 350 million by the counterparty in
   return for the counterparty paying the Company LIBOR plus 4.29%
   for the remaining term of the agreement or approximately $14.0
   million on an annual basis.  Other cash flows associated with
   the cross-currency element of the integrated transaction,
   including the Company's obligation to pay on $315 million LIBOR
   plus approximately 1.34% and the counterparty's obligation to
   pay on Euro 350 million LIBOR plus approximately 1.47%,
   remained unchanged by the amendment. Additionally, the
   cross-currency element of the integrated transaction continue
   to be marked-to-market.

      No gain or loss was recognized upon the amendment of the
   cross currency element of the integrated transaction, as the
   interest rate of LIBOR plus 4.29% was established to ensure
   that the fair value of the cash flow streams before and after
   amendment were equivalent.

      Since, as a result of the amendment, the Company became
   economically exposed to the impact of exchange rates on the
   final principal payment on the Euro 350 million Eurobonds, the
   Company designated the Euro 350 million Eurobonds as a hedge of
   net investment, on the date of the amendment.  Since March
   2003, the effect of currency on the Euro 350 million Eurobonds
   of $ 35.2 million has been recorded as part of Accumulated
   Other Comprehensive income (loss).

      The fair value of these swap agreements is the estimated
   amount the Company would receive (pay) at the reporting date,
   taking into account the effective interest rates and foreign
   exchange rates. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the estimated
   net fair values of the swap agreements was $63.1 million and
   $52.4 million,  respectively.

      Commodity Price Risk Management  The Company selectively
   enters into commodity price swaps to effectively fix certain
   variable raw material costs. These swaps are used purely to
   stabilize the cost of components used in the production of
   certain of the Company's products. The Company generally
   accounts for the commodity swaps as cash flow hedges under SFAS
   133. As a result, the Company records the fair value of the
   swap primarily through other comprehensive income based on the
   tested effectiveness of the commodity swap.  Realized gains or
   losses in other comprehensive income are released and recorded
   to costs of products sold as the products associated with the
   commodity swaps are sold.  At December 31, 2003, the Company
   had no commodity swaps in place.

Consignment Arrangements
      The Company consigns the precious metals used in the
   production of precious metal alloy products from various
   financial institutions.  Under these consignment arrangements,
   the banks own the precious metal, and, accordingly, the Company
   does not report this consigned inventory as part of its
   inventory on its consolidated balance sheet.  The consignment
   agreements allow the Company to take ownership of the metal at
   approximately the same time customer orders are received and to
   closely match the price of the metal acquired to the price
   charged to the customer (i.e., the price charged to the
   customer is largely a pass through).

      As precious metal prices fluctuate, the Company evaluates
   the impact of the precious metal price fluctuation on its
   target gross margins for precious metal alloy products and
   revises the prices customers are charged for precious metal
   alloy products accordingly, depending upon the magnitude of the
   fluctuation.  While the Company does not separately invoice
   customers for the precious metal content of our precious metal
   alloy products, the underlying precious metal content is the
   primary component of the cost and sales price of the precious
   metal alloy products.  For practical purposes, if the precious
   metal prices go up or down by a small amount, the Company will
   not immediately modify prices, as long as the cost of precious
   metals embedded in the Company's precious metal alloy price
   closely approximates the market price of the precious metal.
   If there is a significant change in the price of precious
   metals, the Company adjusts the price for the precious metal
   alloys, maintaining its margin on the products.

      At December 31, 2003, the Company had 149,097 troy ounces of
   precious metal, primarily gold, platinum and palladium) on
   consignment for periods of less than one year with a market
   value of $61.3 million.  Under the terms of the consignment
   agreements, the Company also makes compensatory payments to the
   consignor banks based on a percentage of the value of the
   consigned precious metals inventory.  At December 31, 2003, the
   average annual rate charged by the consignor banks was 2.5%.
   These compensatory payments are considered to be a cost of the
   metals purchased and are recorded as cost of products sold.


<PAGE>


   <TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             EXPECTED MATURITY DATES                              DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                           (represents notional amounts for derivative financial instruments)

                                                                                                  2009 and      Carrying      Fair
                                             2004       2005       2006       2007       2008      beyond         Value       Value
                                                                            (dollars in thousands)
Financial Instruments

Notes Payable:
<S>                                      <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>           <C>         <C>
Denmark krone denominated                $     59   $      -   $      -   $      -   $      -   $      -      $      59   $      59
  Average interest rate                     6.50%                                                                 6.50%
Euro denominated                              623          -          -          -          -          -            623         623
  Average interest rate                     5.46%                                                                 5.46%
Japanese yen denominated                      155          -          -          -          -          -            155         155
  Average interest rate                     1.38%                                                                 1.38%
                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              837          -          -          -          -          -            837         837
                                            4.78%                                                                 4.78%

Current Portion of
  Long-term Debt:
U.S. dollar denominated                       408          -          -          -          -          -            408         408
  Average interest rate                     4.01%                                                                 4.01%
Japanese yen denominated                   20,728          -          -          -          -          -         20,728      20,847
  Average interest rate                     1.44%                                                                 1.44%
                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           21,136          -          -          -          -          -         21,136      21,255
                                            1.49%                                                                 1.49%

Long Term Debt:
U.S. dollar denominated                         -        329        310         27          -          -            666         666
  Average interest rate                                3.59%      3.42%      3.40%                                3.50%
Swiss franc denominated                         -     44,701    109,321     44,700          -          -        198,722     202,939
  Average interest rate                                4.49%      4.77%      4.49%                                4.64%
Japanese yen denominated                    1,505     19,708    116,659          -          -          -        137,872     137,991
  Average interest rate                     0.03%      1.40%      0.56%                                           0.67%
Euro denominated                                -          -    452,712          -          -          -        452,712     452,712
  Average interest rate                                           5.75%                                           5.75%
Thai baht denominated                         139          -          -          -          -          -            139         139
  Average interest rate                     2.75%                                                                 2.75%
Chile peso denominated                          -          -         91          -          -          -             91          91
  Average interest rate                                           6.80%                                           6.80%
                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            1,644     64,738    679,093     44,727          -          -        790,202     794,538
                                            0.26%      3.54%      4.70%      4.49%                                4.58%
Derivative Financial Instruments

Foreign Exchange
Forward Contracts:
Forward sale, 9.9 million
  Australian dollars                        7,444          -          -          -          -          -             63          63
Forward sale, 0.8 million
  Swedish krone                               117          -          -          -          -          -              1           1
Forward sale, 3.0 billion
  Japanese yen                             28,851          -          -          -          -          -            248         248
Forward sale, 6.1 million
  British pounds                           10,869          -          -          -          -          -             12          12
Forward sale, 0.3 million
  US Dollar                                   300          -          -          -          -          -             19          19
Forward purchase, 13.5 million
  Canadian dollars                         10,526          -          -          -          -          -            (70)        (70)

Interest Rate Swaps:
Interest rate swaps - U.S. dollar,
   terminated 2/2001                          (33)       (21)         -          -          -          -            (54)        (54)
Interest rate swaps - Japanese yen              -          -          -          -          -    116,767         (3,717)     (3,717)
  Average interest rate                                                                             1.6%
Interest rate swaps - Swiss francs              -          -          -          -          -     52,242         (3,868)     (3,868)
  Average interest rate                                                                             4.2%
Interest rate swaps - Euro                      -          -    329,092          -          -          -         14,092      14,092
  Average interest rate                                            3.6%
Basis swap - Euro-U.S. Dollar                   -          -    315,000          -          -          -         56,620      56,620
  Average interest rate                                            2.5%

</TABLE>


<PAGE>


   Management's Financial Responsibility

   The  management of DENTSPLY  International  Inc. is  responsible
for the  preparation  and integrity of the  consolidated  financial
statements  and all  other  information  contained  in this  Annual
Report.  The  financial  statements  were  prepared  in  accordance
with generally accepted  accounting  principles and include amounts
that are based on management's informed estimates and judgments.

   In fulfilling its  responsibility for the integrity of financial
information,  management  has  established  a  system  of  internal
accounting    controls    supported   by   written   policies   and
procedures.  This  provides  reasonable  assurance  that assets are
properly  safeguarded and accounted for and that  transactions  are
executed  in  accordance  with   management's   authorization   and
recorded and reported properly.

   The financial  statements  have been audited by our  independent
auditors,  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP, whose unqualified report is
presented  below.  The  independent  accountants  perform audits of
the  financial  statements in accordance  with  generally  accepted
auditing standards,  which includes  consideration of the system of
internal  accounting  controls to determine the nature,  timing and
extent of audit procedures to be performed.

   The   Audit   and   Information    Technology   Committee   (the
"Committee")  of the  Board  of  Directors,  consisting  solely  of
outside  Directors,  meets with the  independent  accountants  with
and  without  management  to review  and  discuss  the major  audit
findings,   internal  control  matters  and  quality  of  financial
reporting.  The  independent  accountants  also have  access to the
Committee  to discuss  auditing  and  financial  reporting  matters
with or without management present.


/s/ Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.    /s/ Thomas L. Whiting     /s/Bret W. Wise
Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.            Thomas L. Whiting        Bret W. Wise
Vice Chairman and                President and            Senior Vice President
Chief Executive Officer          Chief Operating          and Chief Financial
                                 Officer                  Officer

                  Report of Independent Auditors

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of DENTSPLY International Inc.:


In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of DENTSPLY
International Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 and
2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the
financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under
Item 15 (a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.  These financial
statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements and the
financial statement schedule based on our audits.  We conducted
our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States of America,
which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 9 to the consolidated financial
statements, on January 1, 2002 the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets".

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, PA
March 15, 2004


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
<CAPTION>


                                                                           Year Ended December 31,

                                                                     2003          2002         2001
                                                                (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<S>                                                            <C>            <C>            <C>
Net sales (Note 4)                                              $ 1,570,925    $ 1,417,600    $ 1,045,275
Cost of products sold                                               797,724        713,189        502,437

Gross profit                                                        773,201        704,411        542,838
Selling, general and administrative expenses                        501,518        457,691        367,556
Restructuring and other costs (income) (Note 16)                      3,700         (2,732)         5,073

Operating income                                                    267,983        249,452        170,209

Other income and expenses:
  Interest expense                                                   26,079         29,242         19,358
  Interest income                                                    (1,874)        (1,853)        (1,102)
  Other (income) expense, net (Note 5)                               (7,418)         7,973        (27,569)

Income before income taxes                                          251,196        214,090        179,522
Provision for income taxes (Note 14)                                 81,343         70,449         61,808

Income from continuing operations                                   169,853        143,641        117,714


Income from discontinued operations, net of tax (Note 6)              4,330          4,311          3,782

Net income                                                      $   174,183    $   147,952    $   121,496

Earnings per common share - basic (Note 2)
  Continuing operations                                         $      2.16    $      1.84    $      1.51
  Discontinued operations                                              0.05           0.05           0.05
Total earnings per common share - basic                         $      2.21    $      1.89    $      1.56

Earnings per common share - diluted (Note 2)
  Continuing operations                                         $      2.11    $      1.80    $      1.49
  Discontinued operations                                              0.05           0.05           0.05
Total earnings per common share  - diluted                      $      2.16    $      1.85    $      1.54


Cash dividends declared per common share                        $   0.19700    $   0.18400    $   0.18333


Weighted average common shares outstanding (Note 2):
     Basic                                                           78,823         78,180         77,671
     Diluted                                                         80,647         79,994         78,975



<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED  BALANCE SHEETS
<CAPTION>

                                                                                              December 31,

                                                                                         2003           2002
                                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                                                                <C>            <C>
Assets
     Current Assets:
        Cash and cash equivalents                                                   $   163,755    $    25,652
        Accounts and notes receivable-trade, net (Note 1)                               241,385        221,262
        Inventories, net (Notes 1 and 7)                                                205,587        214,492
        Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                        88,463         79,595
        Assets held for sale (Note 6)                                                    28,262           --

           Total Current Assets                                                         727,452        541,001

     Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 8)                                 376,211        313,178
     Identifiable intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 9)                                246,475        236,009
     Goodwill, net (Notes 1 and 9)                                                      963,264        898,497
     Other noncurrent assets                                                            114,736         98,348
     Noncurrent assets held for sale (Note 6)                                            17,449           --

Total Assets                                                                        $ 2,445,587    $ 2,087,033

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
     Current Liabilities:
        Accounts payable                                                            $    86,338    $    66,625
        Accrued liabilities (Note 10)                                                   172,684        190,783
        Income taxes payable                                                             36,483         35,907
        Notes payable and current portion
           of long-term debt (Note 11)                                                   21,973          4,550
        Liabilities of discontinued operations (Note 6)                                  20,206           --

           Total Current Liabilities                                                    337,684        297,865

     Long-term debt (Note 11)                                                           790,202        769,823
     Deferred income taxes                                                               51,241         27,039
     Other noncurrent liabilities (Note 12)                                             142,704        155,119
     Noncurrent liabilities of discontinued operations (Note 6)                           1,269           --
           Total Liabilities                                                          1,323,100      1,249,846

     Minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries                                        418          1,259

     Commitments and contingencies (Note 18)

     Stockholders' Equity:
        Preferred stock, $.01 par value; .25 million
          shares authorized; no shares issued                                              --             --
        Common stock, $.01 par value; 200 million shares authorized;
            81.4 million shares issued at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002           814            814
        Capital in excess of par value                                                  166,952        156,898
        Retained earnings                                                               889,601        730,971
        Accumulated other comprehensive income                                          104,920          1,624
        Unearned ESOP compensation                                                         (380)        (1,899)
        Treasury stock, at cost, 2.1 million shares at December 31, 2003
           and 3.0 million shares at December 31, 2002                                  (39,838)       (52,480)

           Total Stockholders' Equity                                                 1,122,069        835,928

Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                                          $ 2,445,587    $ 2,087,033

<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
<CAPTION>


                                                                                     Accumulated                           Total
                                                            Capital in                 Other        Unearned              Stock-
                                                  Common     Excess of   Retained   Comprehensive    ESOP      Treasury   holders'
                                                   Stock     Par Value   Earnings   Income (Loss) Compensation  Stock     Equity
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                <C>     <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>       <C>         <C>
 Balance at December 31, 2000                       $ 543   $ 151,899   $ 490,167    $ (49,296)   $ (4,938) $ (68,005)  $ 520,370

 Comprehensive Income:
   Net income                                           -           -     121,496            -           -          -     121,496
   Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:
     Foreign currency translation adjustment            -           -           -      (26,566)          -          -     (26,566)
     Cumulative effect of change in accounting
         principle for derivative and hedging
         activities (SFAS 133)                          -           -           -         (503)          -          -        (503)
      Net loss on derivative financial
         instruments                                    -           -           -         (810)          -          -        (810)
      Minimum pension liability adjustment              -           -           -         (213)          -          -        (213)

 Comprehensive Income                                                                                                      93,404

 Exercise of stock options                              -         (45)          -            -           -      8,062       8,017
 Tax benefit from stock options exercised               -       1,333           -            -           -          -       1,333
 Repurchase of common stock, at cost                    -           -           -            -           -       (875)       (875)
 Cash dividends ($0.18333 per share)                    -           -     (14,249)           -           -          -     (14,249)
 Decrease in unearned ESOP compensation                 -           -           -            -       1,519          -       1,519
 Three-for-two common stock split                     271        (271)          -            -           -          -           -

 Balance at December 31, 2001                         814     152,916     597,414      (77,388)     (3,419)   (60,818)    609,519

 Comprehensive Income:
   Net income                                           -           -     147,952            -           -          -     147,952
   Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
     Foreign currency translation adjustment            -           -           -       88,739           -          -      88,739
     Unrealized loss on available-for-sale
         securities                                     -           -           -       (4,854)          -          -      (4,854)
      Net loss on derivative financial
         instruments                                    -           -           -       (4,670)          -          -      (4,670)
      Minimum pension liability adjustment              -           -           -         (203)          -          -        (203)

 Comprehensive Income                                                                                                     226,964

 Exercise of stock options                              -         715           -            -           -      8,338       9,053
 Tax benefit from stock options exercised               -       3,320           -            -           -          -       3,320
 Cash dividends ($0.184 per share)                      -           -     (14,395)           -           -          -     (14,395)
 Decrease in unearned ESOP compensation                 -           -           -            -       1,520          -       1,520
 Fractional share payouts                               -         (53)          -            -           -          -         (53)

 Balance at December 31, 2002                         814     156,898     730,971        1,624      (1,899)   (52,480)    835,928

 Comprehensive Income:
   Net income                                           -           -     174,183            -           -          -     174,183
   Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
     Foreign currency translation adjustment            -           -           -       95,984           -          -      95,984
     Unrealized gain on available-for-sale
         securities                                     -           -           -        5,005           -          -       5,005
      Net gain on derivative financial
         instruments                                    -           -           -        2,430           -          -       2,430
      Minimum pension liability adjustment              -           -           -         (123)          -          -        (123)

 Comprehensive Income                                                                                                     277,479

 Exercise of stock options                              -       4,229           -            -           -     12,642      16,871
 Tax benefit from stock options exercised               -       5,825           -            -           -          -       5,825
 Cash dividends ($0.197 per share)                      -           -     (15,553)           -           -          -     (15,553)
 Decrease in unearned ESOP compensation                 -           -           -            -       1,519          -       1,519

 Balance at December 31, 2003                       $ 814    $ 166,952  $ 889,601    $ 104,920      $ (380) $ (39,838) $1,122,069

<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                                             -------------------------------

                                                                           2003           2002           2001
                                                                                     (in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>            <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income from continuing operations                                 $   169,853    $   143,641    $   117,714

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided by operating activities:
  Depreciation                                                             36,897         32,338         23,702
  Amortization                                                              8,764          9,014         27,810
  Deferred income taxes                                                    32,411         (8,435)         7,021
  Restructuring and other (income) costs                                    3,700         (2,732)         5,073
  Other non-cash costs (income)                                            (1,173)         9,281         (3,849)
  Gain on sale of business                                                   --             --          (23,121)
  Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment                           459          1,703             54
  Gain on sale of PracticeWorks securities                                 (5,806)          --             --
  Non-cash ESOP compensation                                                1,519          1,520          1,519
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of
   acquisitions and divestitures:
     Accounts and notes receivable-trade, net                              (4,899)       (13,030)        (3,783)
     Inventories, net                                                      15,197         (5,686)        16,241
     Prepaid expenses and other current assets                              4,894         (1,601)          --
     Accounts payable                                                      16,538         (7,698)         8,416
     Accrued liabilities                                                  (26,561)       (12,922)        24,679
     Income taxes                                                            (271)        20,425          3,608
     Other, net                                                              (657)         3,712         (4,004)
Cash flows from discontinued operating activities                           7,127          3,453          9,988

Net cash provided by operating activities                                 257,992        172,983        211,068

Cash flows from investing activities:

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired                          (15,038)       (49,805)      (812,523)
Expenditures for identifiable intangible assets                            (2,410)        (2,629)        (2,414)
Proceeds from bulk sale of precious metals inventory                         --            6,754         41,814
Insurance proceeds received for fire-destroyed equipment                     --            2,535          8,980
Redemption of PracticeWorks preferred stock                                  --           15,000           --
Proceeds from sale of PracticeWorks securities                             23,506           --             --
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment                         2,959          1,777            645
Capital expenditures                                                      (76,583)       (55,476)       (47,529)
Cash flows used in discontinued operations' investing activities           (1,811)        (2,658)        (3,659)

Net cash used in investing activities                                     (69,377)       (84,502)      (814,686)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from long-term borrowings, net of deferred financing costs           634        100,244      1,435,175
Payments on long-term borrowings                                          (70,738)      (190,589)      (819,186)
(Decrease) increase in short-term borrowings                               (3,277)        (3,666)         7,511
Proceeds from exercise of stock options and warrants                       16,871          9,053          8,017
Cash paid for treasury stock                                                 --             --             (875)
Cash dividends paid                                                       (14,999)       (14,358)       (14,228)
Realization of cross currency swap value                                   10,736           --             --
Proceeds from the termination of a pension plan                              --             --            8,486
Fractional share payout                                                      --              (53)          --

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities                       (60,773)       (99,369)       624,900

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents               10,261          2,830         (3,005)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                      138,103         (8,058)        18,277

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                           25,652         33,710         15,433

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period                            $   163,755    $    25,652    $    33,710

<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
<CAPTION>

                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                            2003      2002       2001
                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
  Interest paid                                            $25,796   $25,545   $15,967
  Income taxes paid                                         57,733    55,913    47,215
Supplemental disclosures of non-cash transactions:
Receipt of PracticeWorks convertible preferred stock
  in connection with the sale of Infosoft business            --        --      32,000
Receipt of PracticeWorks common stock and stock warrants
  in exchange for convertible preferred stock                 --      18,582      --
</TABLE>

The company assumed liabilities in conjunction
with the following acquisitions:
<TABLE>

                                                         Fair Value  Cash Paid for
                                                          of Assets    Assets or    Liabilities
                                          Date Acquired   Acquired   Capital Stock    Assumed
                                                             (in thousands)

<S>                                       <C>            <C>        <C>             <C>
Austenal, Inc.                             January 2002   $ 31,929   $ 17,770        $ 14,159
Degussa Dental Group                       October 2001    654,878    528,487         126,391
CeraMed Dental (remaining 49%)             July 2001        20,000     20,000            --
Tulsa Dental Products (earn-out payment)   May 2001         84,627     84,627            --
Dental injectible anesthetic assets of
  AstraZeneca                              March 2001      130,469    119,347          11,122
Friadent GmbH                              January 2001    128,356     97,749          30,607


<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1 - SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Description of Business

   DENTSPLY  designs,  develops,  manufactures  and markets a broad
range of  products  for the dental  market.  The  Company  believes
that it is the world's  leading  manufacturer  and  distributor  of
dental   prosthetics,   precious   metal  dental   alloys,   dental
ceramics,   endodontic   instruments  and  materials,   prophylaxis
paste,  dental  sealants,  ultrasonic  scalers and crown and bridge
materials;  the leading United States  manufacturer and distributor
of dental  handpieces,  dental x-ray film holders,  film mounts and
bone   substitute/grafting   materials;  and  a  leading  worldwide
manufacturer  or  distributor  of  dental  injectable  anesthetics,
impression  materials,   orthodontic  appliances,   dental  cutting
instruments  and  dental  implants.  The  Company  distributes  its
dental  products in over 120 countries  under some of the most well
established brand names in the industry.

   DENTSPLY  is  committed  to  the   development   of  innovative,
high-quality, cost effective new products for the dental market.

Principles of Consolidation

   The consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of
the  Company  and  all  majority-owned  subsidiaries.  Intercompany
accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates

   The  preparation  of financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  in the  United  States
requires  management to make estimates and assumptions  that affect
the reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities and the disclosure
of  contingent  assets  and  liabilities  as of  the  date  of  the
financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenue  and
expense  during the reporting  period.  Actual results could differ
from  those  estimates,  if  different  assumptions  are made or if
different conditions exist.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

   The Company  considers  all highly  liquid  investments  with an
original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Accounts and Notes Receivable-Trade

   The Company  sells its products  through a worldwide  network of
distributors  or direct to the end user.  For  customers  on credit
terms,  the Company  performs  ongoing  credit  evaluation of those
customers'  financial  condition  and  generally  does not  require
collateral  from  them.  The  Company  establishes  allowances  for
doubtful   accounts  for  estimated   losses   resulting  from  the
inability of its  customers  to make  required  payments.  Accounts
and  notes  receivable-trade  are  stated  net of these  allowances
which were $15.1  million and $18.5  million at  December  31, 2003
and 2002,  respectively.  Certain of the  Company's  customers  are
offered  cash  rebates  based  on  targeted  sales  increases.   In
accounting  for these  rebate  programs,  the  Company  records  an
accrual as a  reduction  of net sales for the  estimated  rebate as
sales  take  place  throughout  the year in  accordance  with  EITF
01-09,  "  Accounting  for  Consideration  Given by a  Vendor  to a
Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor's Products)".

Inventories

   Inventories  are  stated  at the  lower  of cost or  market.  At
December 31, 2003 and 2002, the cost of $11.4  million,  or 6%, and
$13.0   million,   or  6%,   respectively,   of   inventories   was
determined  by the last-in,  first-out  ("LIFO")  method.  The cost
of other  inventories  was  determined by the  first-in,  first-out
("FIFO") or average cost methods.  The Company establishes reserves
for  inventory  estimated to be obsolete or  unmarketable  equal to
the difference  between the cost of inventory and estimated  market
value  based  upon  assumptions  about  future  demand  and  market
conditions.


<PAGE>



   If the FIFO method had been used to  determine  the cost of LIFO
inventories,  the  amounts  at which  net  inventories  are  stated
would be higher than  reported at  December  31, 2003 and  December
31, 2002 by $1.0 million and $0.8 million, respectively.

Property, Plant and Equipment

   Property,  plant  and  equipment  are  stated  at  cost,  net of
accumulated   depreciation.   Except  for  leasehold  improvements,
depreciation  for financial  reporting  purposes is computed by the
straight-line  method over the  following  estimated  useful lives:
buildings - generally 40 years and  machinery  and equipment - 4 to
15 years.  The cost of leasehold  improvements  is  amortized  over
the  shorter  of the  estimated  useful  life  or the  term  of the
lease.   Maintenance   and  repairs  are  charged  to   operations;
replacements and major  improvements are capitalized.  These assets
are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  circumstances
provide  evidence  that  suggest  that the  carrying  amount of the
asset  may  not  be  recoverable.   Impairment  is  based  upon  an
evaluation  of  the  identifiable   undiscounted   cash  flows.  If
impaired,  the resulting  charge reflects the excess of the asset's
carrying cost over its fair value.


Identifiable Finite-lived Intangible Assets

   Identifiable  finite-lived  intangible  assets,  which primarily
consist  of  patents,  trademarks  and  licensing  agreements,  are
amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over their  estimated  useful
lives,  ranging  from 5 to 40 years.  These assets are reviewed for
impairment  whenever events or circumstances  provide evidence that
suggest  that  the  carrying   amount  of  the  asset  may  not  be
recoverable.  The Company performs ongoing  impairment  analysis on
intangible  assets related to new  technology.  Impairment is based
upon an evaluation  of the  identifiable  undiscounted  cash flows.
If  impaired,  the  resulting  charge  reflects  the  excess of the
asset's carrying cost over its fair value.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

   Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets". This statement requires that the
amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets
be discontinued and instead an annual impairment approach be
applied. The Company performed the the annual impairment tests
during 2002 and 2003, as required, and no impairment was
identified. These impairment tests are based upon a fair value
approach rather than an evaluation of the undiscounted cash
flows. If impairment is identified under SFAS 142, the resulting
charge is determined by recalculating goodwill through a
hypothetical purchase price allocation of the fair value and
reducing the current carrying value to the extent it exceeds the
recalculated value. If impairment is identified on
indefinite-lived intangibles, the resulting charge reflects the
excess of the asset's carrying cost over its fair value.


Derivative Financial Instruments

   The Company adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards
No. 133 ("SFAS 133"),  "Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and
Hedging  Activities",   on  January  1,  2001.  This  standard,  as
amended  by  SFAS  138  and  149,   requires  that  all  derivative
instruments  be recorded  on the balance  sheet at their fair value
and that  changes in fair value be recorded  each period in current
earnings or comprehensive income.

   The Company employs  derivative  financial  instruments to hedge
certain anticipated transactions,  firm commitments,  or assets and
liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies.  Additionally,  the
Company  utilizes  interest  rate  swaps to convert  floating  rate
debt to  fixed  rate,  fixed  rate  debt to  floating  rate,  cross
currency  basis swaps to convert debt  denominated  in one currency
to another  currency,  and commodity  swaps to fix its variable raw
materials costs.



<PAGE>



Litigation

   The Company and its  subsidiaries  are from time to time parties
to  lawsuits  arising  out  of  their  respective  operations.  The
Company  records  liabilities  when a loss is  probable  and can be
reasonably  estimated.  These  estimates  are  made  by  management
based on an analysis  made by internal and external  legal  counsel
which considers information known at the time.

Foreign Currency Translation

   The  functional  currency  for  foreign  operations,  except for
those in highly inflationary  economies,  has been determined to be
the local currency.

   Assets and  liabilities of foreign  subsidiaries  are translated
at exchange  rates on the balance sheet date;  revenue and expenses
are  translated  at the  average  year-to-date  rates of  exchange.
The  effects  of these  translation  adjustments  are  reported  in
stockholders'   equity  within   "Accumulated  other  comprehensive
income".  During the years  ended  December  31,  2003 and 2002 the
Company  had  translation   gains  of  $153.0  million  and  $121.4
million,  respectively,  offset  by  losses  of $57.0  million  and
$32.7 million,  respectively,  on its loans designated as hedges of
net  investments.  During  the year  ended  December  31,  2001 the
Company had  translation  losses of $32.1  million  offset by gains
of  $5.5  million  on  its  loans   designated  as  hedges  of  net
investments.

   Exchange gains and losses arising from transactions  denominated
in a currency  other  than the  functional  currency  of the entity
involved  and  translation  adjustments  in  countries  with highly
inflationary  economies are included in income.  Exchange  gains of
$0.3 million in 2003 and $1.2  million in 2001 and exchange  losses
of $3.5  million in 2002 are included in "Other  expense  (income),
net".

Revenue Recognition

   Revenue, net of related discounts and allowances, is recognized
at the time of shipment in accordance with shipping terms and as
title and risk of loss pass to customers. Net sales include
shipping and handling costs collected from customers in
connection with the sale.

   A significant portion of the Company's net sales is comprised
of sales of precious metals generated through its precious metal
alloy product offerings. The precious metals content of sales was
$205.0 million, $187.1 million and $50.7 million for 2003, 2002
and 2001, respectively.

Warranties

    The Company provides warranties on certain equipment products.
Estimated warranty costs are accrued when sales are made to
customers. Estimates for warranty costs are based primarily on
historical warranty claim experience.


Research and Development Costs

   Research  and  development  ("R&D")  costs  relate  primarily to
internal  costs  for  salaries  and  direct   overhead   costs.  In
addition,  the Company  contracts  with outside  vendors to conduct
R&D  activities.  All such R&D costs are  charged to  expense  when
incurred.  The Company  capitalizes the costs of equipment that has
general R&D uses and  expenses  such  equipment  that is solely for
specific   R&D   projects.   The   depreciation   related  to  this
capitalized  equipment is included in the Company's R&D costs.  R&D
costs  are  included  in  "Selling,   general  and   administrative
expenses"  and  amounted  to  approximately  $43.3  million,  $39.9
million and $27.3 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.


<PAGE>



Income Taxes

   Income taxes are  determined  in  accordance  with  Statement of
Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  109  ("SFAS  109"),  which
requires   recognition  of  deferred  income  tax  liabilities  and
assets for the  expected  future tax  consequences  of events  that
have been  included in the  financial  statements  or tax  returns.
Under this method,  deferred  income tax liabilities and assets are
determined  based on the difference  between  financial  statements
and tax bases of  liabilities  and assets  using  enacted tax rates
in effect for the year in which the  differences  are  expected  to
reverse.  SFAS 109 also  provides for the  recognition  of deferred
tax assets if it is more  likely  than not that the assets  will be
realized  in  future   years.   A  valuation   allowance  has  been
established  for deferred tax assets for which  realization  is not
likely.

   The Company accounts for income tax  contingencies in accordance
with the Statement of Financial  Standards No. 5,  "Accounting  for
Contingencies".

Earnings Per Share

   Basic  earnings per share is calculated by dividing net earnings
by the  weighted  average  number  of  shares  outstanding  for the
period.  Diluted  earnings per share is  calculated by dividing net
earnings by the weighted  average number of shares  outstanding for
the period,  adjusted for the effect of an assumed  exercise of all
dilutive options outstanding at the end of the period.

Stock Compensation

   The Company has stock-based  employee  compensation  plans which
are  described  more  fully in Note 13.  The  Company  applies  the
intrinsic  value method in accordance  with  Accounting  Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to Employees",
and related  interpretations  in accounting for stock  compensation
plans.  Under this method,  no  compensation  expense is recognized
for fixed stock option plans,  provided that the exercise  price is
greater  than or  equal to the  price  of the  stock at the date of
grant.  The following  table  illustrates  the effect on net income
and  earnings  per share if the  Company had applied the fair value
recognition   provisions  of  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting
Standards No. 123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation",  to
stock-based employee compensation.

   <TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                     2003          2002           2001
                                                   (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<S>                                         <C>               <C>            <C>
Net income as reported                      $      174,183    $   147,952    $   121,496
Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation
  expense determined under fair value
  method, net of related tax                       (11,062)        (9,576)        (6,137)
Pro forma net income                        $      163,121    $   138,376    $   115,359

Basic earnings per common share
  As reported                               $         2.21    $      1.89    $      1.56
  Pro forma under fair value based method   $         2.07    $      1.77    $      1.49

Diluted earnings per common share
  As reported                               $         2.16    $      1.85    $      1.54
  Pro forma under fair value based method   $         2.02    $      1.73    $      1.46
</TABLE>




<PAGE>



Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

   Other  comprehensive  income (loss)  includes  foreign  currency
translation   adjustments   related   to  the   Company's   foreign
subsidiaries,  net of the  related  changes  in  certain  financial
instruments   hedging  these  foreign  currency   investments.   In
addition,   changes   in  the   fair   value   of   the   Company's
available-for-sale  investment  securities  and certain  derivative
financial   instruments   and  changes  in  its   minimum   pension
liability  are  recorded  in  other  comprehensive  income  (loss).
These  adjustments  are  recorded  in  other  comprehensive  income
(loss) net of any  related  tax  effects.  For the years ended 2003
and  2002,  these  adjustments  were net of tax  benefits  of $29.1
million and $32.9 million,  respectively.  For the year ended 2001,
these adjustments were net of tax liabilities of $5.6 million.

   The balances included in accumulated other comprehensive  income
(loss) in the consolidated balance sheets are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 December 31,
                                                             2003          2002
                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>
Foreign currency translation adjustments                  $ 109,532    $  13,548
Net loss on derivative financial
  instruments                                                (3,553)      (5,983)
Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities         151       (4,854)
Minimum pension liability                                    (1,210)      (1,087)
                                                          $ 104,920    $   1,624

</TABLE>

    The cumulative foreign currency  translation  adjustments  included
translation  gains  of  $193.0  million  and  $39.9  million  as of
December  31,  2003 and  2002,  respectively,  offset  by losses of
$83.5   million   and  $26.4   million,   respectively,   on  loans
designated as hedges of net investments.

Reclassifications

   Certain  reclassifications  have been made to prior  years' data
in order to conform to the current year presentation.

New Accounting Pronouncements

   In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN 46"), "Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51". The
primary objectives of this interpretation are to provide guidance
on the identification of entities for which control is achieved
through means other than through voting rights ("variable
interest entities") and how to determine when and which business
enterprise should consolidate the variable interest entity (the
"primary beneficiary"). This new model for consolidation applies
to an entity which either (1) the equity investors (if any) do
not have a controlling financial interest or (2) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity's
activities without receiving additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. In addition, FIN 46 requires that
both the primary beneficiary and all other enterprises with a
significant variable interest in a variable interest entity make
additional disclosures. Certain disclosure requirements of FIN 46
are effective for financial statements issued after January 31,
2003. The remaining provisions of FIN 46 are effective
immediately for all variable interests in entities created after
January 31, 2003. Adoption of this provision did not have an
effect on the Company. In December 2003, the FASB released a
revised version of FIN 46, FIN 46R, to clarify certain aspects of
FIN 46 and to provide certain entities with exemptions from the
requirements of FIN 46. FIN 46R requires the application of
either FIN 46 or FIN 46R to all Special Purpose Entitied
("SPE's") created prior to February 1, 2003 at the end of the
first interim or annual reporting period ending after December
15, 2003. Adoption of this provision did not have an effect on
the Company. FIN 46R will be applicable to all non-SPE entities
created prior to February 1, 2003 at the end of the first interim
or annual reporting period ending after March 15, 2004. The
Company does not expect the application of this portion of FIN
46R to have a material impact on the Company's financial
statements.


<PAGE>



   In April 2003, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". The statement
amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities". Specifically, the statement clarifies under what
circumstances a contract with an initial net investment meets the
characteristic of a derivative. In addition, it clarifies when a
derivative contains a financing component that warrants special
reporting in the statement of cash flows. SFAS 149 is effective
for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. The
Application of this standard has not had a material impact on the
Company's financial statements.

   In May 2003, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 150 ("SFAS 150"), " Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
and Equity". This Statement establishes standards for how an
issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires that
an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its
scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). Many of
those instruments were previously classified as equity. Adoption
of the provisions of SFAS No. 150 in the third quarter of 2003
related to mandatorily redeemable financial instruments had no
effect on the Company's financial statements. In November 2003,
the FASB issued FSP No. 150-3, "Effective Date, Disclosures and
Transition for Mandatorily Redeemable Financial Instruments of
Certain Nonpublic Entities and Certain Mandatorily Redeemable
Noncontrolling Interests under FASB Statement No. 150, Accounting
for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both
Liabilities and Equity". For public companies, FSP 150-3 deferred
the provisions of SFAS 150 related to classification and
measurement of certain mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling
interests issued prior to November 5, 2003. For mandatorily
redeemable noncontrolling interests issued after November 5,
2003, SFAS 150 applies without any deferral. The Company
continues to analyze the provisions of SFAS 150 related to
mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests, but does not
believe that application of these provisions will have a material
impact on the Company's financial statements.

   In January 2004, the FASB released FASB Staff Position ("FSP")
No. 106-1, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003." SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions" requires a company to consider
current changes in applicable laws when measuring its
postretirement benefit costs and accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation. However, because of uncertainties of the
effect of the provisions of the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the "Act") on plan
sponsors and certain accounting issues raised by the Act, FSP
106-1 allows plan sponsors to elect a one-time deferral of the
accounting for the Act. The Company is electing the deferral
provided by FSP 106-1 to analyze the impact of the Act on
prescription drug coverage provided to a limited number of
retirees from one of its business units. The Company does not
expect the Act to have a material impact on the Company's
postretiremenent benefits liabilities or the Company's financial
statements.




<PAGE>



NOTE 2 - EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

   The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
diluted earnings per common share:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Earnings per common share
                                                                                 --------------------------------------
                                  Income From   Income From
                                  Continuing    Discontinued       Net               Continuing  Discontinued
                                  Operations     Operations      Income     Shares   Operations  Operations   Total
                                                           (in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                              <C>           <C>            <C>          <C>      <C>        <C>        <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2003
        Basic                     $169,853      $  4,330       $174,183     78,823   $   2.16   $   0.05   $   2.21
        Incremental shares from
           assumed exercise of
           dilutive options           --            --             --        1,824

        Diluted                   $169,853      $  4,330       $174,183     80,647   $   2.11   $   0.05   $   2.16


Year Ended December 31, 2002
        Basic                     $143,641      $  4,311       $147,952     78,180   $   1.84   $   0.05   $   1.89
        Incremental shares from
           assumed exercise of
           dilutive options           --            --             --        1,814

        Diluted                   $143,641      $  4,311       $147,952     79,994   $   1.80   $   0.05   $   1.85


Year Ended December 31, 2001
        Basic                     $117,714      $  3,782       $121,496     77,671   $   1.51   $   0.05   $   1.56
        Incremental shares from
           assumed exercise of
           dilutive options           --            --             --        1,304

        Diluted                   $117,714      $  3,782       $121,496     78,975   $   1.49   $   0.05   $   1.54

</TABLE>


   Options to purchase 1.4 million and 0.1 million shares of
common stock that were outstanding during the years ended 2003
and 2002, respectively, were not included in the computation of
diluted earnings per share since the options' exercise prices
were greater than the average market price of the common shares
and, therefore, the effect would be antidilutive.


NOTE 3 - BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

Acquisitions
   All  acquisitions  completed in 2002 and 2001 were accounted for
under the purchase method of accounting;  accordingly,  the results
of  the  operations  acquired  are  included  in  the  accompanying
financial  statements for the periods  subsequent to the respective
dates of the  acquisitions.  The purchase  prices were allocated on
the basis of  estimates  of the fair values of assets  acquired and
liabilities assumed.

   In January 2002, the Company acquired the partial denture
business of Austenal Inc. ("Austenal") in a cash transaction
valued at approximately $17.8 million. Previously headquartered
in Chicago, Illinois, Austenal manufactured dental laboratory
products and was the world leader in the manufacture and sale of
systems used by dental laboratories to fabricate partial
dentures.

   In October 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of the
Degussa Dental Group ("Degussa Dental"). The Company paid 548
million Euros or $503 million at the closing date and paid 12.1
million Euros, or $11.4 million, as a closing balance sheet
adjustment in June 2002. The final closing balance payment to
Degussa of $9.3 million was made in December 2003, as a result of
an arbitration ruling.


<PAGE>



   Prior to the acquisition, Degussa Dental had carried large
amounts of precious metals, for its production of precious metal
alloy products, in inventory which resulted in exposure to the
risk of price changes in the precious metals.   After the
acquisition, Dentsply management changed Degussa Dental's
practice of holding a long position in the metal to holding metal
on a consignment basis from various financial institutions. In
connection with this change in practice, the Company sold certain
precious metals to various financial institutions in the fourth
quarter of 2001 for a value of $41.8 million and in the first
quarter of 2002 for a value of $6.8 million. These transactions
effectively transferred the price risk on the precious metals to
the financial institutions and allows the Company to acquire the
precious metal at approximately the same time and for the same
price as alloys are sold to the Company's customers. As the
precious metal inventory was recorded at fair value as of the
acquisition date, which was based on the value realized in the
transactions with the financial institutions, the Company did not
recognize a gain or loss on these transactions.

      In March 2001, the Company acquired the dental injectible
anesthetic assets of AstraZeneca ("AZ Assets"). The total
purchase price of this transaction was composed of the following:
an initial $96.5 million payment which was made at closing in
March 2001; a $20 million contingency payment (including related
accrued interest) associated with the first year sales of
injectible dental anesthetic which was paid during the first
quarter of 2002.

      In a separate agreement, as amended, the Company acquired
the know-how, patent and trademark rights to the non-injectible
periodontal anesthetic product known as Oraqix with a purchase
price composed of the following: a $2.0 million payment upon
submission of a New Drug Application ("NDA") in the U.S. and a
Marketing Authorization Application ("MAA") in Europe for the
Oraqix product under development; payments of $6.0 million and
$2.0 million upon the approval of the NDA and MAA, respectively,
for licensing rights; and a $10.0 million prepaid royalty payment
upon approval of both applications. The $2.0 million payment
related to the application filings was accrued as restructuirng
and other costs during the fourth quarter of 2001 and was paid
during the first quarter of 2002. The MAA was approved in Sweden,
the European Union member reference state, and the Company made
the required $2.0 million payment to AstraZeneca in the second
quarter of 2003. The NDA application was approved in December
2003 and as a result the remaining payments of $16.0 million
became due and were accrued in 2003 and the payments were made in
January 2004.  These payments were capitalized and will be
amortized over the term of the licensing agreement.

   In January 2001, the Company acquired the outstanding  shares of
Friadent  GmbH  ("Friadent")  for 220 million  German marks or $106
million  ($105  million,  net of cash  acquired).  During the first
quarter of 2002,  the Company  received cash of 16.5 million German
marks or approximately  $7.3 million,  representing a final balance
sheet  adjustment.  As a  result  of  this  closing  balance  sheet
adjustment,  goodwill was reduced by  approximately  $7.3  million.
Previously  headquartered  in  Mannheim,  Germany,  Friadent  was a
major  global  dental  implant   manufacturer   and  marketer  with
subsidiaries  in  Germany,  France,  Denmark,  Sweden,  the  United
States, Switzerland, Brazil, and Belgium.


<PAGE>



   The respective purchase prices plus direct acquisition costs
for Austenal, Degussa Dental, Friadent and the AZ Assets have
been allocated on the basis of estimated fair values at the dates
of acquisition. The purchase price allocations for these
acquisitions are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Austenal  Degussa Dental   AZ Assets   Friadent
                                                               (in thousands)

<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Current assets                                $   5,991    $ 166,216    $    --      $  16,244
Property, plant and equipment                     2,413       71,641          878        4,184
Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill      20,227      402,678      129,591       98,282
Other long-term assets                            3,298       14,343         --          4,882
Current liabilities                              (8,357)     (62,550)     (11,122)     (18,855)
Other long-term liabilities                      (5,802)     (63,841)        --         (6,988)
                                              $  17,770    $ 528,487    $ 119,347    $  97,749
</TABLE>


      A summary of the identifiable  intangible assets and goodwill
acquired in these acquisitions is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         Austenal              Degussa Dental             AZ Assets                 Friadent
                                   ----------------------  -----------------------  -----------------------  -----------------------

                                               Weighted                 Weighted                 Weighted                Weighted
                                               Average                  Average                  Average                  Average
                                               Amorti-                  Amorti-                  Amorti-                  Amorti-
                                     Value      zation        Value      zation        Value      zation       Value      zation
                                    Assigned    Period      Assigned     Period      Assigned     Period      Assigned    Period
<S>                                   <C>            <C>      <C>            <C>            <C>                 <C>             <C>

Finite-lived intangible assets:
  Patents                             $   548        9.0      $  8,300       12.3           $ -                 $ 2,302         7.3
  Trademarks                                -                    6,800       40.0             -                     603        10.0
  Licensing agreements                      -                    4,143       18.0             -                   1,909         3.3
  Other                                     -                    1,479        3.0             -                     875         2.8
                                          548        9.0        20,722       21.9             -                   5,689         5.6
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
  Licensing agreements                      -        N/A             -        N/A       129,591        N/A            -         N/A

Goodwill                               19,679        N/A       381,956        N/A            -         N/A       92,593         N/A

                                      $20,227                 $402,678                $ 129,591                 $98,282

</TABLE>

   The  factors  that   contributed   to  the  purchase  price  for
Austenal,   and  the  resulting  goodwill,   included  its  partial
denture  products  which  helped to expand  the  Company's  product
offerings.  None of the  goodwill  recognized  as a  result  of the
Austenal   transaction   is  expected  to  be  deductible  for  tax
purposes.

   The factors that  contributed  to the purchase price for Degussa
Dental,  and the resulting  goodwill,  included its product breadth
and   worldwide   position  in  precious   metal   alloys  used  in
dentistry,   its   ceramics   technology   for  crown  and   bridge
applications  and its strong  position  in Europe  and  Japan.  The
Company expects that  approximately 50% of the goodwill  recognized
as  a  result  of  the  transaction  will  be  deductible  for  tax
purposes.

   The  factors  that   contributed   to  the  purchase  price  for
Friadent,   and  the  resulting   goodwill,   included  its  strong
position in dental  implants,  one of the highest  growth  areas in
dentistry.  The  Company  expects  that  approximately  25%  of the
goodwill  recognized  as  a  result  of  the  transaction  will  be
deductible for tax purposes.


<PAGE>



   In August 1996, the Company  purchased a 51% interest in CeraMed
Dental  ("CeraMed")  for $5 million  with the right to acquire  the
remaining 49%  interest.  In March 2001,  the Company  entered into
an agreement  for an early  buy-out of the  remaining  49% interest
in CeraMed at a cost of $20  million,  which was made in July 2001,
with a potential contingent  consideration  ("earn-out")  provision
capped at $5 million.  The  earn-out  was based on future  sales of
CeraMed  products  during the August 1, 2001 to July 31,  2002 time
frame,  with any  additional pay out due on September 30, 2002. The
Company  was not  required  to make a payment  under this  earn-out
provision.

   Certain  assets of Tulsa Dental  Products LLC were  purchased in
January  1996 for  $75.1  million,  plus $5.0  million  paid in May
1999  related to  earn-out  provisions  in the  purchase  agreement
based  on  performance  of  the  acquired  business.  The  purchase
agreement  provided for an additional  earn-out  payment based upon
the operating  performance of the Tulsa Dental  business for one of
the three two-year  periods ending December 31, 2000,  December 31,
2001 or December  31, 2002,  as selected by the seller.  The seller
chose the  two-year  period  ended  December 31, 2000 and the final
earn-out  payment of $84.6  million was made in May 2001  resulting
in an increase in goodwill.


Divestitures
   In March 2001, the Company sold InfoSoft, LLC to PracticeWorks
Inc. ("PracticeWorks"). InfoSoft, LLC was the wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, that developed and sold software and
related products for dental practice management. In the
transaction, the Company received 6.5% convertible preferred
stock in PracticeWorks, with a fair value of $32 million. The
sale resulted in a $23.1 million pretax gain which was included
in "Other expense (income), net" in 2001. The Company recorded
the preferred stock investment and subsequent accrued dividends
to "Other noncurrent assets".

   In June 2002, the Company completed a transaction with
PracticeWorks to exchange the accumulated balance of this
preferred stock investment for a combination of $15.0 million of
cash, 1.0 million shares of PracticeWorks' common stock valued at
$15.0 million and 450,000 seven-year term stock warrants issued
by PracticeWorks, valued at $3.6 million, based on the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The transaction resulted in a
loss to the Company of $1.1 million, which is included in "Other
expense (income), net" in 2002.

   In October 2003, PracticeWorks was acquired by Eastman Kodak in
a cash transaction and as a result the Company received $23.5
million for its common stock and warrant holdings. This buyout
resulted in a Company recognizing a $5.8 million pre-tax gain,
which is included in "Other expense (income), net" in 2003.


NOTE 4 - SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION


Segment Information

   The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 131 ("SFAS 131"), "Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information".  SFAS 131 establishes
standards for disclosing information about reportable segments in
financial statements. The Company has numerous operating
businesses covering a wide range of products and geographic
regions, primarily serving the professional dental market.
Professional dental products represented approximately 98%, 98%
and 97% of sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

   Operating businesses are combined into five operating groups
which have overlapping product offerings, geographical presence,
customer bases, distribution channels, and regulatory oversight.
In determining reportable segments, the Company considers its
operating and management structure and the types of information
subject to regular review by its chief operating decision-maker.
The accounting policies of the segments are consistent with those
described for the consolidated financial statements in the
summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 1).  The
Company measures segment income for reporting purposes as net
operating profit before restructuring, interest and taxes. A
description of the services provided within each of the Company's
five reportable segments follows:


<PAGE>



Dental Consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-Dental

   This business group includes responsibility for the design,
manufacturing, sales, and distribution for certain small
equipment and chairside consumable products in the U.S., Germany,
Scandinavia, Iberia and Eastern Europe; the design and
manufacture of certain chairside consumable and laboratory
products in Japan, the sales and distribution of all Company
products in Japan; and the design and the Company's non-dental
business.

Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia

   This business group includes the responsibility for the design
and manufacturing for endodontic products in the U.S.,
Switzerland and Germany; certain small equipment and chairside
consumable products in the U.S.; and laboratory products in
China.  The business is responsible for sales and distribution of
all Company products throughout Asia - except Japan; all Company
endodontic products in the U.S., Canada, Swtizerland, Benelux,
Scandinavia, and Eastern Europe, and certain endodontic products
in Germany; and certain small equipment and chairside consumable
products in the U.S.

Dental  Consumables - United Kingdom,  France,  Italy, CIS, Middle
East, Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business

   This business group includes responsibility for the design and
manufacture of dental laboratory products in Germany and the
Netherlands and the sales and distribution of these products in
Europe, Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa and the CIS.  The
group also has responsibility for sales and distribution of the
Company's other products in France, United Kingdom, Italy, Middle
East, Africa and the CIS.

Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical

   This business group includes responsibility for the design,
manufacture, sales and distribution of dental anesthetics in the
U.S. and Brazil; chairside consumable and laboratory products in
Brazil.  It also has responsibility for the sales and
distribution of all Company products sold in Australia, Canada,
Latin America and Mexico.

U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics

   This business group includes the responsibility for the design,
manufacture, sales and distribution for laboratory products in
the U.S. and the sales and distribution of U.S. manufactured
laboratory products in certain international markets; the design,
manufacture, world-wide sales and distribution of the Company's
dental implant and bone generation products; and the world-wide
sales and distribution of the Company's orthodontic products.

   Significant interdependencies exist among the Company's
operations in certain geographic areas. Inter-group sales are at
prices intended to provide a reasonable profit to the
manufacturing unit after recovery of all manufacturing costs and
to provide a reasonable profit for purchasing locations after
coverage of marketing and general and administrative costs.

   Generally, the Company evaluates performance of segments based
on the segments operating income and net third party sales
excluding precious metal content.


<PAGE>



   The following table sets forth  information  about the Company's
operating groups for 2003, 2002 and 2001.

<TABLE>
Third Party Net Sales
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      2003       2002       2001
<S>                                                                              <C>         <C>        <C>
Dental Consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental                            $  277,304  $  254,503 $  193,788
Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia                           384,706     358,227    316,257
Dental Consumables - UK, France, Italy, CIS, Middle East,
  Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business                                        455,431     376,441    178,382
Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical                                  114,447     109,661    122,052
U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics                               318,292     298,287    217,839
All Other (a)                                                                        20,745      20,481     16,957
Total                                                                            $1,570,925  $1,417,600 $1,045,275

</TABLE>


<TABLE>
Third Party Net Sales, excluding precious metal content
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     2003       2002       2001
<S>                                                                             <C>         <C>         <C>
Dental consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental                           $  264,648  $  242,117  $  190,708
Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia                          381,509     357,643     316,257
Dental Consumables - UK, France, Italy, CIS, Middle East,
  Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business                                       307,017     241,135     139,530
Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical                                 113,262     108,454     121,983
U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics                              278,709     260,682     209,195
All Other                                                                           20,745      20,481      16,957
Total excluding precious metal content                                           1,365,890   1,230,512     994,630
Precious Metal Content                                                             205,035     187,088      50,645
Total including Precious Metal Content                                          $1,570,925  $1,417,600  $1,045,275
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
Intersegment Net Sales
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     2003       2002       2001
<S>                                                                             <C>         <C>         <C>
Dental consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental                           $ 207,284   $ 190,520   $ 173,875
Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia                         158,501     151,125     144,110
Dental Consumables - UK, France, Italy, CIS, Middle East,
  Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business                                       76,648      63,636      15,511
Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical                                 33,276      37,923      21,714
U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics                              31,737      29,036      29,005
All Other                                                                         158,377     153,842     109,680
Eliminations                                                                     (665,823)   (626,082)   (493,895)
Total                                                                           $       -   $       -  $        -

</TABLE>



<TABLE>
Depreciation and amortization
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    2003       2002       2001
<S>                                                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
Dental consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental                           $  6,719   $  6,869   $  6,127
Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia                         11,042     10,574     16,166
Dental Consumables - UK, France, Italy, CIS, Middle East,
  Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business                                       9,189      7,140      1,768
Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical                                 1,715      1,259      2,791
U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics                              7,652      7,259      7,800
All Other                                                                          9,344      8,251     16,860
Total                                                                           $ 45,661   $ 41,352   $ 51,512
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
Segment Operating Income
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    2003       2002       2001
<S>                                                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
Dental consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental                           $  82,378  $  70,941  $  59,789
Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia                         154,025    141,585    110,111
Dental Consumables - UK, France, Italy, CIS, Middle East,
  Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business                                       30,545     11,356        (72)
Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical                                 12,031     14,758     20,167
U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics                              41,428     50,191     42,034
All Other                                                                         (48,724)   (42,111)   (56,747)
Segment Operating Income                                                          271,683    246,720    175,282

Reconciling Items:
Restructuring and other costs (income)                                              3,700     (2,732)     5,073
Interest Expense                                                                   26,079     29,242     19,358
Interest Income                                                                    (1,874)    (1,853)    (1,102)
Other (income) expense, net                                                        (7,418)    7,973     (27,569)
Income before income taxes                                                      $ 251,196  $ 214,090  $ 179,522

</TABLE>



<TABLE>
Assets
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     2003       2002       2001
<S>                                                                             <C>         <C>        <C>
Dental consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental                           $  187,248  $  181,747 $  149,664
Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia                        1,215,723   1,189,961  1,160,798
Dental Consumables - UK, France, Italy, CIS, Middle East,
  Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business                                       590,208     517,067    499,812
Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical                                 256,299     169,989    124,926
U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics                              311,782     310,258    253,870
All Other                                                                         (115,673)   (281,989)  (390,919)
Total                                                                           $2,445,587  $2,087,033  $1,798,151

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
Capital Expenditures
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    2003       2002       2001
<S>                                                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
Dental consumables - U.S. and Europe/Japan/Non-dental                           $  8,569   $  8,394   $  8,444
Endodontics/Professional Division Dental Consumables/Asia                          8,517     12,550     18,458
Dental Consumables - UK, France, Italy, CIS, Middle East,
  Africa/European Dental Laboratory Business                                       5,075      9,624      2,525
Australia/Canada/Latin America/U.S. Pharmaceutical                                39,547      3,434      2,752
U.S. Dental Laboratory Business/Implants/Orthodontics                              5,265      8,870     10,356
All Other                                                                          9,610     12,604      4,994
Total                                                                           $ 76,583   $ 55,476   $ 47,529
</TABLE>

(a) Includes: two operating divisions not managed by named
segments, operating expenses of two distribution warehouses not
managed by named segments, Corporate and inter-segment
eliminations.

Geographic Information

   The following table sets forth information about the Company's
operations in different geographic areas for 2003, 2002 and
2001.  Net sales reported below represent revenues for shipments
made by operating businesses located in the country or territory
identified, including export sales. Assets reported represent
those held by the operating businesses located in the respective
geographic areas.



  <TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    United                                      Other
                                                    States               Germany               Foreign           Consolidated
                                                                           (in thousands)

<S>                                                <C>                  <C>                  <C>               <C>
2003
Net sales                                          $ 705,541            $ 397,357            $ 468,027         $ 1,570,925
Long-lived assets                                    213,607              121,481              129,059             464,147

2002
Net sales                                          $ 684,809            $ 325,301            $ 407,490         $ 1,417,600
Long-lived assets                                    178,978              100,707              114,099             393,784

2001
Net sales                                          $ 578,755            $ 152,010            $ 314,510         $ 1,045,275
Long-lived assets                                    130,362               66,756               91,288             288,406

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



Product and Customer Information


        The following table presents sales information by product category:

                                     Year Ended December 31,

                                  2003         2002        2001
                                         (in thousands)

Dental consumables           $  555,738   $  523,060   $  457,344
Dental laboratory products      521,131      473,485      225,788
Specialty dental products       460,506      388,066      327,150
Non-dental                       33,550       32,989       34,993
                             $1,570,925   $1,417,600   $1,045,275



   Dental consumable products consist of dental sundries and small
equipment products used in dental offices in the treatment of
patients.  DENTSPLY's products in this category include dental
injectable anesthetics, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants,
impression materials, restorative materials, tooth whiteners, and
topical fluoride.  The Company manufactures thousands of
different consumable products marketed under more than a hundred
brand names.  Small equipment products consist of various durable
goods used in dental offices for treatment of patients.
DENTSPLY's small equipment products include high and low speed
handpieces, intraoral curing light systems and ultrasonic scalers
and polishers.

   Dental laboratory products are used in dental laboratories in
the preparation of dental appliances.  DENTSPLY's products in
this category include dental prosthetics, including artificial
teeth, precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics, and crown
and bridge materials and small equipment products used in
laboratories consisting of computer aided machining (CAM)
ceramics systems and porcelain furnaces.

   Specialty dental products are used for specific purposes within
the dental office and laboratory settings.  DENTSPLY's products
in this category include endodontic (root canal) instruments and
materials, dental implants, and orthodontic appliances and
accessories.

   Non-dental   products  are  comprised  primarily  of  investment
casting  materials  that are  used in the  production  of  jewelry,
golf club heads and other casted products.

   Third party export sales from the United States are less than
ten percent of consolidated net sales.  No customers accounted
for more than ten percent of consolidated net sales in 2003 and
2002. In 2001, one customer, a distributor, accounted for 11% of
consolidated net sales.



<PAGE>



NOTE 5 - OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE


   Other (income) expense, net consists of the following:

                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                  -----------------------------

                                                  2003       2002        2001
                                                        (in thousands)
Foreign exchange transaction (gains) losses   $   (263)   $  3,481    $ (1,177)
Gain on sale of InfoSoft, LLC                     --          --       (23,121)
(Gain) loss on PracticeWorks securities         (7,395)      2,598      (1,710)
Minority interests                                (312)        364      (1,265)
Other                                              552       1,530        (296)

                                              $ (7,418)   $  7,973    $(27,569)


NOTE 6 - DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS


   During the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2003,
the Company's management and board of directors made the decision
to divest of its Gendex equipment business.  The sale of Gendex
narrows the Company's product lines to focus primarily on dental
consumables.  Gendex is a manufacturer of dental x-ray equipment
and accessories and intraoral cameras. On December 11, 2003, the
Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell the assets
and related liabilities of the Gendex business to Danaher
Corporation for $102.5 million cash, plus the assumption of
certain pension liabilities. The agreement also contains a
provision for a post-closing adjustment to the purchase price
bosed on changes in certain balance sheet accounts.  The
transaction closed on February 27, 2004.

   Also during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31,
2003, the Company's management and board of directors made a
decision to discontinue the operations of the Company's dental
needle business.

   The Gendex business and the dental needle business are
distinguishable as separate components of the Company in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
144 ("SFAS 144"), "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets".  The Gendex business and the needle business
are classified as held for sale at December 31, 2003 in
accordance with SFAS 144.  Direct costs to transact the sales are
comprised of, but not limited to, broker commissions, legal and
title transfer fees and closing costs.  The statements of
operations and related financial statement disclosures for all
prior years have been restated to present the Gendex business and
needle business as discontinued operations separate from
continuing operations.

   Discontinued operations net revenue and income before income
taxes for the periods presented were as follows:

                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                -----------------------------

                                2003       2002       2001
                                      (in thousands)
Net sales                    $106,313   $ 96,142   $ 87,693
Income before income taxes      7,329      6,893      5,605



<PAGE>



   The following assets and liabilities are reclassified as held
for sale for the periods presented as follows:

                                                            December 31,
                                                               2003
                                                          (in thousands)
Accounts and notes receivable-trade, net                     $10,626
Inventories, net                                              16,848
Prepaid expenses and other current assets                        788
Current assets of discontinued operations held for sale      $28,262

Property, plant and equipment, net                           $ 7,656
Identifiable intangible assets, net                            4,022
Goodwill, net                                                  5,771
Noncurrent assets of discontinued operations held for sale   $17,449

Accounts payable                                             $10,021
Accrued liabilities                                           10,185
Current liabilities of discontinued operations               $20,206

Other noncurrent liabilities                                 $ 1,269
Noncurrent liabilities of discontinued operations            $ 1,269



NOTE 7 - INVENTORIES

   Inventories consist of the following:

                                  December 31,
                               2003        2002
                              (in thousands)
Finished goods               $123,290   $134,989
Work-in-process                41,997     39,065
Raw materials and supplies     40,300     40,438

                             $205,587   $214,492




<PAGE>



NOTE 8- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

   Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      December 31,
                                                                   2003        2002
                                                                     (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>        <C>
Assets, at cost:
     Land                                                        $ 40,553   $ 34,746
     Buildings and improvements                                   190,222    160,566
     Machinery and equipment                                      295,354    274,915
     Construction in progress                                      60,036     28,368
                                                                  586,165    498,595
     Less:  Accumulated depreciation                              209,954    185,417

                                                                 $376,211   $313,178

</TABLE>


NOTE 9 - GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

   Effective  January 1, 2002,  the Company  adopted  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 142 ("SFAS  142"),  "Goodwill
and Other  Intangible  Assets".  This  statement  requires that the
amortization  of goodwill and  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets
be discontinued  and instead an annual  impairment test approach be
applied.   The  impairment  tests  are  required  to  be  performed
annually  (or more  often if  adverse  events  occur) and are based
upon  a  fair  value   approach   rather  than  an   evaluation  of
undiscounted  cash flows.  If goodwill  impairment  is  identified,
the  resulting  charge  is  determined  by  recalculating  goodwill
through  a  hypothetical  purchase  price  allocation  of the  fair
value and  reducing  the  current  carrying  value to the extent it
exceeds the recalculated  goodwill.  If impairment is identified on
indefinite-lived  intangibles,  the resulting  charge  reflects the
excess of the  asset's  carrying  cost over its fair  value.  Other
intangible  assets with finite lives will  continue to be amortized
over their useful lives.

   The Company  performed the required annual  impairment  tests in
the second quarter of 2003 and no impairment was  identified.  This
impairment  assessment was based upon a review of twenty  reporting
units.

   In accordance with SFAS 142, prior period amounts have not been
restated. The following table presents prior year reported
amounts adjusted to eliminate the amortization of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         Year Ended December 31,

                                                      2003        2002         2001
                                                   (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<S>                                                 <C>         <C>          <C>
Reported net income                                 $ 174,183   $ 147,952    $ 121,496
Add: amortization adjustment, net of related tax           -           -        13,963
Adjusted net income                                 $ 174,183   $ 147,952    $ 135,459

Reported basic earnings per share                   $    2.21   $    1.89    $    1.56
Add: amortization adjustment                               -           -          0.18
Adjusted basic earnings per share                   $    2.21   $    1.89    $    1.74

Reported diluted earnings per share                 $    2.16   $    1.85    $    1.54
Add: amortization adjustment                               -           -          0.18
Adjusted diluted earnings per share                 $    2.16   $    1.85    $    1.72
</TABLE>


<PAGE>



   The table below presents the net carrying values of goodwill
and identifiable intangible assets.

                                                         December 31,
                                                      2003         2002
                                                        (in thousands)

Goodwill                                            $ 963,264   $ 898,497

Indefinite-lived identifiable intangible assets:
  Trademarks                                        $   4,080   $   4,080
  Licensing agreements                                165,621     149,254
Finite-lived identifiable intangible assets            76,774      82,675
Total identifiable intangible assets                $ 246,475   $ 236,009

   A reconciliation of changes in the Company's goodwill is as
follows:

                                                  December 31,
                                              2003         2002
                                                 (in thousands)

Balance, beginning of the year             $ 898,497    $ 763,270
Acquisition activity                          15,153       28,176
Changes to purchase price allocation         (28,381)      40,025
Reclassification to assets held
  for sale(Note 6)                            (5,771)        --
Impairment charges (Note 16)                    (360)        --
Effects of exchange rate changes              84,126       67,026
Balance, end of the year                   $ 963,264    $ 898,497


   The change in the net carrying value of goodwill in 2003 was
primarily due to the final payment related to the Degussa Dental
acquisition, several small acquisitions including the purchase of
one of the Company's suppliers and additional investments in
partially owned subsidiaries, foreign currency translation
adjustments, reclassification to assets held for sale and changes
to the purchase price allocations of Austenal, Degussa Dental and
Friadent. These purchase price allocation changes were primarily
related to the reversal of preacquisition tax contingencies due
to expiring statutes.

   The increase in indefinite-lived licensing agreements was due
to foreign currency translation adjustments. These intangible
assets relate exclusively to the royalty-free licensing rights to
AstraZeneca's dental products and tradenames, which are
primarily denominated in Swiss francs. The change in finite-lived
identifiable intangible assets was due primarily to amortization
for the period, reclassification to assets held for sale,
additions related to the Oraqix agreement and foreign currency
translation adjustments.

    Finite-lived identifiable intangible assets consist of the
following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        December 31, 2003                 December 31, 2002
                           ----------------------------------    -----------------------------------



                          Gross                       Net       Gross                       Net
                         Carrying   Accumulated    Carrying    Carrying   Accumulated    Carrying
                          Amount    Amortization     Amount     Amount    Amortization    Amount
                                                                    (in thousands)

<S>                    <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Patents                $  55,142    $ (33,425)   $  21,717   $  53,902    $ (30,015)   $  23,887
Trademarks                34,936       (7,142)      27,794      37,145       (6,608)      30,537
Licensing agreements      30,858       (8,105)      22,753      23,730       (6,411)      17,319
Other                     12,573       (8,063)       4,510      26,151      (15,219)      10,932
                       $ 133,509    $ (56,735)   $  76,774   $ 140,928    $ (58,253)   $  82,675

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



   Amortization expense for finite-lived identifiable intangible
assets for 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $8.8 million, $9.0 million and
$10.4 million, respectively. The annual estimated amortization
expense related to these intangible assets for each of the five
succeeding fiscal years is $8.1 million, $7.2 million, $6.4
million, $5.7 million and $5.2 million for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007
and 2008, respectively.


NOTE 10 - ACCRUED LIABILITIES

   Accrued liabilities consist of the following:

                                               December 31,
                                             2003       2002
                                               (in thousands)
Payroll, commissions, bonuses and
  other cash compensation                 $ 42,200   $ 44,490
Employee benefits                           14,692     13,181
General insurance                           15,852     14,965
Sales and marketing programs                15,944     15,424
Restructuring and other costs (Note 16)      7,781     15,190
Accrued Oraqix payments                     16,000       --
Warranty liabilities                         3,629      7,429
Other                                       56,586     80,104
                                          $172,684   $190,783


   A reconciliation of changes in the Company's warranty liability
for 2003 is as follows:

                                                         Warranty Liability

                                                            December 31,
                                                               2003
                                                          (in thousands)
Balance, beginning of the year                               $ 7,429
Accruals for warranties issued during the year                 5,064
Accruals related to pre-existing warranties                   (1,328)
Warranty settlements made during the year                     (4,663)
Reclassification to liabilities of discontinued operations    (3,378)
Effects of exchange rate changes                                 505
Balance, end of the year                                     $ 3,629



NOTE 11 - FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS

Short-Term Borrowings

   Short-term  bank  borrowings  amounted to $0.8  million and $3.2
million at December 31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.  The weighted
average  interest rates of these  borrowings  were 4.8% and 2.5% at
December  31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.  Unused lines of credit
for  short-term  financing at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $84.9
million  and  $80.0  million,   respectively.   Substantially   all
short-term  borrowings  were classified as long-term as of December
31, 2003 and 2002,  reflecting the Company's  intent and ability to
refinance  these  obligations  beyond one year and are  included in
the  table  below.  The  unused  lines  of  credit  have  no  major
restrictions  and are  provided  under  demand  notes  between  the
Company  and  the  lending  institution.  Interest  is  charged  on
borrowings   under  these   lines  of  credit  at  various   rates,
generally below prime or equivalent money rates.



<PAGE>


Long-Term Borrowings

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                            December 31,
                                                                                                        2003          2002
                                                                                                         (in thousands)

<S>                                                                                                 <C>           <C>
$250 million multi-currency revolving credit agreement expiring May 2006,
Japanese yen 12.6 billion at 0.56%                                                                  $ 116,659     $ 152,803

$250 million multi-currency revolving credit agreement expiring May 2004                                    -             -

Prudential Private Placement Notes, Swiss franc denominated,  84.4 million at 4.56%
and 82.5 million at 4.42% maturing March 2007, 80.4 million at 4.96% maturing October 2006            198,722       178,881

ABN Private Placement Note, Japanese yen 6.2 billion at 1.39% maturing December 2005                   38,646        52,562

Euro 350.0 million Eurobonds at 5.75% maturing December 2006                                          452,712       378,144

$250 million commercial paper facility rated A/2-P/2 U.S. dollar borrowings                                 -             -

Other borrowings, various currencies and rates                                                          4,599         8,836
                                                                                                      811,338       771,226
Less: Current portion (included in notes payable and current portion of long-term debt)                21,136         1,403
                                                                                                    $ 790,202     $ 769,823

</TABLE>

      The table below reflects the contractual maturity dates of
the various borrowings at December 31, 2003 (in thousands). The
individual borrowings under the revolving credit agreement are
structured to mature on a quarterly basis but because the Company
has the intent and ability to extend them until the expiration
date of the agreement, these borrowings are considered
contractually due in May 2006.

2004                                 $ 22,780
2005                                   64,738
2006                                  679,093
2007                                   44,727
                                     $811,338

   The Company utilizes interest rate swaps to convert the
variable rate Japanese yen-denominated debt under the revolving
facility to fixed rate debt. In addition, swaps are used to
convert the fixed rate Eurobond to variable rate financing.  The
Company's use of interest rate swaps is further described in "
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK" and in
Note 17.

   The Company has a $500 million revolving credit agreement with
participation from thirteen banks. The revolving credit
agreements contain certain affirmative and negative covenants as
to the operations and financial condition of the Company, the
most restrictive of which pertain to asset dispositions,
maintenance of certain levels of net worth, and prescribed ratios
of indebtedness to total capital and operating income plus
depreciation and amortization to interest expense.  The Company
pays a facility fee of 0.125 % annually on the amount of the
commitment under the $250 million five year facility ("facility
B") and 0.125% annually under the $250 million 364-day facility
("facility A").  Interest rates on amounts borrowed under the
facility will depend on the maturity of the borrowing, the
currency borrowed, the interest rate option selected, and the
Company's long-term credit rating from Moody's and Standard and
Poors.

   The $250 million facility A may be extended, subject to certain
conditions, for additional periods of 364 days, which the Company
intends to extend annually. The entire $500 million revolving
credit agreement has a usage fee of 0.125 % annually if
utilization exceeds 50% of the total available facility.


<PAGE>



   The Company has complementary U.S. dollar and Euro
multicurrency commercial paper facilities totaling $250 million
which have utilization, dealer, and annual appraisal fees which
on average cost 0.11% annually.  The $250 million facility A acts
as back-up credit to this commercial paper facility. The total
available credit under the commercial paper facilities and the
facility A is $250 million  There were no outstanding commercial
paper obligations at December 31, 2003.

   In March 2001, the Company issued  Series A and B private
placement notes to Prudential Capital Group totaling Swiss francs
166.9 million at an average rate of 4.49% with six year final
maturities.  The notes were issued to finance the acquisition of
the AZ Assets.  In October 2001, the Company issued a Series C
private placement note to Prudential Capital Group for Swiss
francs 80.4 million at a rate of 4.96% with a five year final
maturity.  The series A and B notes were also amended in October
2001 to increase the interest rate by 30 basis points, reflecting
the Company's higher leverage.  In December 2001, the Company
issued a private placement note through ABN AMRO for Japanese yen
6.2 billion at a rate of 1.39% with a four year final maturity.
The Series C note and the ABN note were issued to partially
finance the Degussa Dental acquisition.

   In December 2001, the Company issued 350 million Eurobonds with
a coupon of 5.75%, maturing December 2006 at an effective yield
of 5.89%.  These bonds were issued to partially finance the
Degussa Dental acquisition.

   At December 31, 2003, the Company had total unused lines of
credit, including lines available under its short-term
arrangements, of $472 million.

NOTE 12 - OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES

   Other noncurrent liabilities consist of the following:

                                                    December 31,
                                              2003        2002
                                               (in thousands)

Pension benefits (Note 15)                  $ 67,854   $ 55,063
Noncurrent income taxes payable (Note 18)     45,750     67,880
Other postretirement benefits (Note 15)       10,711     10,676
Derivative instruments (Note 17)               5,843      7,890
Other                                         12,546     13,610
                                            $142,704   $155,119




<PAGE>


NOTE 13 - STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


   The Board of Directors  authorized  the  repurchase of up to 1.5
million  shares of common  stock for the year  ended  December  31,
2001 on the open  market or in  negotiated  transactions,  with the
authorization  expiring on  December  31 of that year.  The Company
repurchased  37,500  shares  for $0.9  million  in  2001.  No share
repurchases  were made during 2003 and 2002. In December  2003, the
Board of Directors  authorized  the repurchase of up to 1.0 million
shares of common  stock for the year  ended  December  31,  2004 on
the open market.

   The  Company  has stock  options  outstanding  under three stock
option  plans  (1993  Plan,  1998  Plan  and  2002  Plan).  Further
grants  can only be made  under the 2002  Plan.  Under the 1993 and
1998  Plans,  a  committee  appointed  by the  Board  of  Directors
granted to key employees  and  directors of the Company  options to
purchase  shares of common  stock at an exercise  price  determined
by such  committee,  but not less than the fair market value of the
common  stock on the date of grant.  Options  generally  expire ten
years after the date of grant  under these plans and grants  become
exercisable  over a period of three  years  after the date of grant
at the  rate  of  one-third  per  year,  except  that  they  become
immediately exercisable upon death, disability or retirement.

   The 2002 Plan authorized  grants of 7.0 million shares of common
stock,  (plus any  unexercised  portion of canceled  or  terminated
stock options  granted under the DENTSPLY  International  Inc. 1993
and 1998 Stock Option  Plans),  subject to  adjustment  as follows:
each  January,  if 7% of  the  outstanding  common  shares  of  the
Company  exceed 7.0  million,  the  excess  becomes  available  for
grant  under the Plan.  The 2002 Plan  enables the Company to grant
"incentive  stock options"  ("ISOs")  within the meaning of Section
422 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code of  1986,  as  amended,  to key
employees  of  the  Company,   and  "non-qualified  stock  options"
("NSOs")  which  do  not  constitute  ISOs  to  key  employees  and
non-employee  directors  of the  Company.  Grants of options to key
employees are solely  discretionary  with the Board of Directors of
the  Company.  ISOs and NSOs  generally  expire ten years from date
of  grant  and  become  exercisable  over a period  of three  years
after the date of grant at the rate of one-third  per year,  except
that they become  immediately  exercisable  upon death,  disability
or  retirement.  Such  options are  granted at exercise  prices not
less than the fair  market  value of the common  stock on the grant
date.

   Future  option  grants  may only be made  under  the 2002  Plan,
which  will  include  the   unexercised   portion  of  canceled  or
terminated  options  granted  under  the 1993 or 1998  Plans.  Each
non-employee  director  receives  an  automatic  grant  of  NSOs to
purchase  9,000  shares  of  common  stock  on the  date  he or she
becomes a  non-employee  director and an  additional  9,000 options
on the third  anniversary of the date of the non-employee  director
was last granted an option.



<PAGE>



   The  following  is a  summary  of the  status of the Plans as of
December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001 and  changes  during  the years
ending on those dates:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                          Outstanding              Exercisable
                      ---------------------   ----------------------

                                   Weighted                Weighted    Available
                                    Average                Average        for
                                   Exercise               Exercise       Grant
                       Shares      Price       Shares       Price       Shares

<S>                   <C>            <C>      <C>           <C>         <C>
December 31, 2000     5,792,243      17.85    2,989,478     $ 15.64     3,226,467
Authorized (Lapsed)          -                                            (83,444)
Granted               1,605,900      30.43                             (1,605,900)
Exercised              (497,813)     16.01                                      -
Expired/Canceled       (167,087)     18.47                                167,087

December 31, 2001     6,733,243      20.97    3,732,179       16.76     1,704,210
Authorized (Lapsed)          -                                          7,023,106
Granted               1,574,550      36.91                             (1,574,550)
Exercised              (515,565)     17.33                                      -
Expired/Canceled       (100,639)     19.08                                100,639

December 31, 2002     7,691,589      24.50    4,649,889       18.99     7,253,405
Authorized (Lapsed)          -                                            177,882
Granted               1,434,300      43.84                             (1,434,300)
Exercised              (829,155)     19.30                                      -
Expired/Canceled       (119,277)     29.38                                119,277

December 31, 2003     8,177,457    $ 28.35    5,225,300     $ 22.22     6,116,264
</TABLE>

      The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding under the Plans at December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                            Options Outstanding             Options Exercisable
                      ---------------------------------   ------------------------

                                    Weighted
                       Number        Average                Number
                     Outstanding   Remaining   Weighted   Exercisable    Weighted
                         at       Contractual Average        at           Average
                     December 31    Life      Exercise    December 31    Exercise
Exercise Price Range    2003      (in years)   Price        2003          Price
<S>                   <C>             <C>      <C>        <C>             <C>

 $10.01 - $15.00        528,751         1.4     $ 13.12      528,751       $ 13.12
  15.01 -  20.00      2,211,089         5.0       16.44    2,211,089         16.44
  20.01 -  25.00      1,166,026         6.8       24.62    1,132,926         24.66
  25.01 -  30.00         69,650         7.5       27.94       41,000         27.98
  30.01 -  35.00      1,272,412         7.9       31.23      822,662         31.20
  35.01 -  40.00      1,570,929         8.9       36.93      488,872         36.97
  40.01 -  45.00      1,346,400         9.9       44.26            -             -
  45.01 -  50.00         12,200         9.7       45.53            -             -

                      8,177,457         7.1     $ 28.35    5,225,300       $ 22.22

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



   The  Company  uses the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model to
value option awards.  The per share weighted  average fair value of
stock  options  and  the  weighted  average   assumptions  used  to
determine these values are as follows:

                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                    2003        2002         2001
Per share fair value           $   14.85   $   12.69    $   11.47
Expected dividend yield             0.48%       0.50%        0.61%
Risk-free interest rate             3.36%       3.35%        5.01%
Expected volatility                   31%         34%          33%
Expected life (years)               5.50        5.50         5.50

   The  Black-Scholes   option  pricing  model  was  developed  for
tradable  options with short exercise  periods and is therefore not
necessarily an accurate  measure of the fair value of  compensatory
stock options.

   The rollforward of the common shares and the treasury shares
outstanding is as follows:

                                          Common    Treasury   Outstanding
                                       Shares     Shares      Shares
                                             (in thousands)
Balance at December 31, 2000           81,389     (3,971)    77,418
Exercise of stock options                --          500        500
Repurchase of common stock, at cost      --          (38)       (38)

Balance at December 31, 2001           81,389     (3,509)    77,880
Exercise of stock options                --          519        519
Fractional share payouts                   (1)      --           (1)

Balance at December 31, 2002           81,388     (2,990)    78,398
Exercise of stock options                --          853        853

Balance at December 31, 2003           81,388     (2,137)    79,251



<PAGE>



NOTE 14 - INCOME TAXES

   The components of income before income taxes from continuing
operations are as follows:

                               Year Ended December 31,

                            2003      2002        2001
                                (in thousands)
United States ("U.S.")   $113,994   $116,160   $131,010
Foreign                   137,202     97,930     48,512
                         $251,196   $214,090   $179,522


     The components of the provision for income taxes from continuing
operations are as follows:

                          Year Ended December 31,

                       2003       2002        2001
                            (in thousands)
Current:
     U.S. federal   $ 28,693   $ 47,627    $ 42,159
     U.S. state        1,941      2,520       1,331
     Foreign          18,298     28,737      11,297
     Total            48,932     78,884      54,787

Deferred:
     U.S. federal     12,077     (7,586)     12,854
     U.S. state        2,466       (908)      2,359
     Foreign          17,868         59      (8,192)
     Total            32,411     (8,435)      7,021

                    $ 81,343   $ 70,449    $ 61,808

<PAGE>


      The reconcilation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the
effective rate is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                             Year Ended December 31,

                                                                     2003            2002            2001

<S>                                                                <C>              <C>             <C>
Statutory federal income tax rate                                  35.0  %          35.0  %         35.0  %
Effect of:
    State income taxes, net of federal benefit                      1.1              0.5             1.3
    Nondeductible amortization of goodwill                            -                -             1.1
    Foreign earnings at lower rates than US federal                (4.5)            (2.3)           (2.2)
    Foreign tax credit                                                -                -            (0.8)
    Extraterritorial income                                        (0.9)            (1.1)           (1.0)
    Taxes on unremitted earnings of certain
      foreign subsidiaries                                          2.5                -             0.1
    Other                                                          (0.8)             0.8             0.9

Effective income tax rate on continuing operations                 32.4  %          32.9  %         34.4  %

</TABLE>


      The tax effect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred
tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            December 31, 2003       December 31, 2002

                                                          Current   Noncurrent    Current     Noncurrent
                                                           Asset      Asset        Asset        Asset
                                                        (Liability) (Liability)  (Liability)  (Liability)
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Employee benefit accruals                               $  2,225    $  9,053    $  1,496    $  9,961
Product warranty accruals                                  1,155        --         1,012        --
Insurance premium accruals                                 4,035        --         3,919        --
Commission and bonus accrual                               1,526        --         3,156        --
Sales and marketing accrual                                1,474        --         2,612        --
Restructuring and other cost accruals                      2,947       2,824       7,595       4,352
Differences in financial reporting and tax basis for:
     Inventory                                             8,467        --         7,838        --
     Property, plant and equipment                          --       (34,793)       --       (29,272)
     Identifiable intangible assets                         --       (59,578)       --       (35,086)
Unrealized losses (gains) included in other
  comprehensive income                                      --        45,305        --        18,324
Miscellaneous Accruals                                    12,561        --        10,403        --
Other                                                      3,884       8,455         855       5,515
Discontinued Operations                                    1,883       4,293       2,633       4,315
Tax loss carryforwards in foreign jurisdictions             --         9,649        --         9,521
Valuation allowance for tax loss carryforwards              --        (9,649)       --        (5,342)
                                                        $ 40,157    $(24,441)   $ 41,519    $(17,712)

</TABLE>

      Current and noncurrent deferred tax assets and liabilities are included
in the following balance sheet captions:

                                                  December 31,
                                               2003        2002
                                                (in thousands)
Prepaid expenses and other current assets   $ 41,427    $ 42,096
Income taxes payable                          (1,270)       (577)
Other noncurrent assets                       26,800       9,327
Deferred income taxes                        (51,241)    (27,039)


<PAGE>



   Certain foreign subsidiaries of the Company have tax loss
carryforwards of $30.6 million at December 31, 2003, of which
$4.9 million expire through 2011 and $25.7 million may be carried
forward indefinitely.  The tax benefit of these tax loss
carryforwards has been fully offset by a valuation allowance as
of December 31, 2003.  The valuation allowance of $9.6 million
and $5.3 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
relates to foreign tax loss carryforwards for which realizability
is uncertain.  The change in the valuation allowances for 2003
and 2002 results primarily from the generation of additional
foreign tax loss carryforwards in excess of loss carryforwards
utilized in certain foreign jurisdictions.

   The Company has provided for the potential repatriation of
certain undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and
considers earnings above the amounts on which tax has been
provided to be permanently reinvested.  Income taxes have not
been provided on $343 million of undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries, which will continue to be permanently
reinvested.  If remitted as dividends, these earnings could
become subject to additional tax, however such repatriation is
not anticipated.

   The pretax income from discontinued operations for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $7.3 million, $6.9
million and $5.6 million, respectively. The income tax expense
related to discontinued operations for the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $3.0 million, $2.6 million and $1.8
million, respectively.

NOTE 15 - BENEFIT PLANS

   Substantially all of the employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries are covered by government or Company-sponsored
benefit plans.  Total costs for Company-sponsored defined
benefit, defined contribution and employee stock ownership plans
amounted to $13.5 million in 2003, $11.5 million in 2002 and $7.9
million in 2001.

Defined Contribution Plans
   The DENTSPLY Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") is a
non-contributory defined contribution plan that covers
substantially all of the United States based non-union employees
of the Company.  Contributions to the ESOP were $2.2 million for
2003, $2.2 million for 2002 and $2.1 million for 2001.  The
Company makes annual contributions to the ESOP of not less than
the amounts required to service ESOP debt. In connection with the
refinancing of ESOP debt in March 1994, the Company agreed to
make additional cash contributions totaling at least $0.6 million
through 2003.  Dividends received by the ESOP on allocated shares
are either reinvested in participants' accounts or passed through
to Plan participants, at the participant's election.  Most ESOP
shares were initially pledged as collateral for its debt.  As the
debt is repaid, shares are released from collateral and allocated
to active employees based on the proportion of debt service paid
in the year.  At December 31, 2003, the ESOP held 7.0 million
shares, of which 6.9 million were allocated to plan participants
and 0.1 million shares were unallocated and pledged as collateral
for the ESOP debt.  Unallocated shares were acquired prior to
December 31, 1992 and are accounted for in accordance with
Statement of Position 76-3.  Accordingly, all shares held by the
ESOP are considered outstanding and are included in the earnings
per common share computations.

   The Company sponsors an employee 401(k) savings plan for its
United States workforce to which enrolled participants may
contribute up to IRS defined limits.

Defined Benefit Plans
   The Company maintains a number of separate contributory and
non-contributory qualified defined benefit pension plans and
other postretirement medical plans for certain union and salaried
employee groups in the United States.  Pension benefits for
salaried plans are based on salary and years of service; hourly
plans are based on negotiated benefits and years of service.
Annual contributions to the pension plans are sufficient to
satisfy legal funding requirements.  Pension plan assets are held
in trust and consist mainly of common stock and fixed income
investments.

   The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans for its
employees in Germany, Japan, The Netherlands, and Switzerland.
These plans provide benefits based upon age, years of service and
remuneration.  The German plans are unfunded book reserve plans.
Other foreign plans are not significant individually or in the
aggregate.  Most employees and retirees outside the United States
are covered by government health plans.


<PAGE>



Postretirement Healthcare
   The plans for postretirement healthcare have no plan assets.
The postretirement healthcare plan covers certain union and
salaried employee groups in the United States and is
contributory, with retiree contributions adjusted annually to
limit the Company's contribution for participants who retired
after June 1, 1985.  The Company also sponsors unfunded
non-contributory postretirement medical plans for a limited
number of union employees and their spouses and retirees of a
discontinued operation.

   The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for the
majority of it plans.  Reconciliations of changes in the above
plans' benefit obligations, fair value of assets, and statement
of funded status are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   Other Postretirement
                                                         Pension Benefits                Benefits
                                                        -----------------------    ---------------------
                                                            December 31,               December 31,
                                                        2003         2002          2003         2002
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                                  <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Reconciliation of Benefit Obligation
Benefit obligation at beginning of year              $ 103,711    $  81,134    $  10,735    $   7,877
    Service cost                                         4,137        3,428          235          419
    Interest cost                                        5,358        4,464          726          833
    Participant contributions                            1,185          972          570          442
    Actuarial (gains) losses                            (3,561)       2,877        1,165        2,537
    Amendments                                             343         --           --           --
    Acquisitions                                          --           --           --           --
    Effects of exchange rate changes                    15,248       14,955         --           --
    Benefits paid                                       (3,854)      (4,119)      (1,231)      (1,373)

Benefit obligation at end of year                    $ 122,567    $ 103,711    $  12,200    $  10,735

Reconciliation of Plan Assets
    Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year   $  51,238    $  43,348    $    --      $    --
    Actual return on assets                                520          (10)        --           --
    Acquisitions                                          --           --           --           --
    Effects of exchange rate changes                     5,584        7,716         --           --
    Employer contributions                               5,435        3,331          661          931
    Participant contributions                            1,185          972          570          442
    Benefits paid                                       (3,854)      (4,119)      (1,231)      (1,373)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year             $  60,108    $  51,238    $    --      $    --


Reconciliation of Funded Status
    Actuarial present value of projected
      benefit obligations                            $ 122,567    $ 103,711    $  12,200    $  10,735
    Plan assets at fair value                           60,108       51,238         --           --

    Funded status                                      (62,459)     (52,473)     (12,200)     (10,735)
    Unrecognized transition obligation                   1,495        1,581         --           --
    Unrecognized prior service cost                        795          590        3,743        2,998
    Unrecognized net actuarial loss (gain)               6,043        7,499       (2,254)      (2,940)


Net amount recognized                                $ (54,126)   $ (42,803)   $ (10,711)   $ (10,677)


</TABLE>


<PAGE>


      The amounts recognized in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets are as follows:

                                                       Other Postretirement
                                 Pension Benefits            Benefits
                                -----------------      ------------------
                                    December 31,            December 31,
                                  2003        2002        2003       2002
                                           (in thousands)
Other noncurrent liabilities $ (67,854)  $ (55,063)  $ (10,711)  $ (10,676)
Other noncurrent assets         11,905      10,498           -           -
Accumulated other
  comprehensive loss             1,823       1,762           -           -

Net amount recognized        $ (54,126)  $ (42,803)  $ (10,711)  $ (10,676)



      Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation
in excess of plan assets

                                                   December 31,
                                                2003        2002
                                                (in thousands)
Projected benefit obligation                $ 122,569   $ 104,528
Accumulated benefit obligation                116,865      97,304
Fair value of plan assets                      60,109      50,973


      Components of the net periodic benefit cost for the plans are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               Other Postretirement
                                                Pension Benefits                    Benefits
                                     ---------------------------------   --------------------------------
                                          2003        2002        2001    2003        2002       2001
                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>
Service cost                            $ 4,137    $ 3,428    $ 1,877   $   235    $   419   $   205
Interest cost                             5,358      4,464      3,548       726        833       539
Expected return on plan assets           (3,018)    (2,706)    (2,525)      --        --         --
Net amortization and deferral               576        445        287      (265)        27       (63)

Net periodic benefit cost               $ 7,053    $ 5,631    $ 3,187   $   696    $ 1,279   $   681

</TABLE>


      The weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
for the Company's plans, principally in foreign locations, are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                              Other Postretirement
                                             Pension Benefits                        Benefits
                                   ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------
                                       2003        2002        2001         2003        2002        2001
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Discount rate                           5.0%        5.1%        5.4%        6.0%        6.8%        7.3%
Expected return on plan assets          5.5%        5.5%        5.0%        n/a         n/a         n/a
Rate of compensation increase           3.0%        3.0%        2.5%        n/a         n/a         n/a
Initial health care cost trend          n/a         n/a         n/a         9.5%       10.0%        7.0%
Ultimate health care cost trend         n/a         n/a         n/a         5.0%        5.0%        7.0%
Years until ultimate trend is reached   n/a         n/a         n/a         9.0        10.0         n/a
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


      The weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit
cost for the Company's plans, principally in foreign locations, are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                              Other Postretirement
                                               Pension Benefits                      Benefits
                                     ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------
                                       2003        2002        2001        2003        2002        2001
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>
Discount rate                           5.1%        5.4%        5.7%       6.8%        7.3%        7.0%
Expected return on plan assets          5.5%        5.0%        5.7%       n/a         n/a         n/a
Rate of compensation increase           3.0%        2.5%        3.5%       n/a         n/a         n/a
Initial health care cost trend          n/a         n/a         n/a       10.0%        7.0%        7.0%
Ultimate health care cost trend         n/a         n/a         n/a        5.0%        7.0%        7.0%
Years until ultimate trend is reached   n/a         n/a         n/a       10.0         n/a         n/a
</TABLE>


     Assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the amounts reported
for postretirement benefits. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare
cost trend rates would have the following effects for the year ended December
31, 2003:

                                                         Other Postretirement
                                                                Benefits
                                                         ---------------------
                                                     1% Increase     1% Decrease
                                                            (in thousands)
Effect on total of service and interest cost components   $  131      $ (105)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation                1,416      (1,162)


Plan Assets:
      The weighted average asset allocations of the U.S. plans at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 by asset category are as follows:


                             Target            December 31,
                            Allocation      2003        2002
Equity                        40%-65%        51%         44%
Debt                          35%-60%        47%         53%
Real estate                    0%-15%         0%          0%
Other                          0%-15%         2%          3%
                                        ---------   ---------
Total                                       100%        100%
                                        ---------   ---------

     Equity securities do not include Company stock of Dentsply International
Inc. The expected return on plan assets is the weighted average long-term
expected return based upon asset allocations and historic average returns for
the markets where the assets are invested, principally in foreign locations.


Cash Flows:
     The Company expects to contribute $0.7 million to its U.S. defined benefit
pension plans and $0.7 million to its other postretirement benefit plan in 2004.


NOTE 16 - RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER COSTS (INCOME)

   Restructuring and other costs (income) consists of the
following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                        2003        2002       2001
                                                              (in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>         <C>
Restructuring and other costs                       $  4,497    $  1,669    $ 17,774
Reversal of restructuring charges due to
  changes in estimates                                  (797)     (3,687)       (802)
Gain on pension plan termination                        --          --        (8,486)
Gain on insurance settlement associated with fire       --          (714)     (5,758)
Costs related to the Oraqix agreement                   --          --         2,345
    Total restructuring and other costs (income)    $  3,700    $ (2,732)   $  5,073

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



   During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded
restructuring and other costs of $4.5 million. These costs were
primarily related to impairment charges recorded to certain
investments in emerging technologies. The products related to
these technologies were abandoned and therefore these assets were
no longer viewed as being recoverable. In addition, certain costs
were associated with the consolidation of the Company's U.S.
laboratory businesses. Included in this charge were severance
costs of $0.9 million, lease/contract termination costs of $0.6
million and intangible and other asset impairment charges of $3.0
million. This restructuring plan will result in the elimination
of approximately 65 administrative and manufacturing positions
primarily in the United States, most of which remain to be
eliminated as of December 31, 2003. Certain of these positions
will need to be replaced at the consolidated site and therefore
the net reduction in positions is expected to be approximately
25. This plan is expected to be complete by December 31, 2004.
The major components of these charges and the remaining
outstanding balances at December 31, 2003 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             Amounts    Balance
                                                  2003       Applied   December 31,
                                               Provisions     2003       2003
<S>                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
Severance                                       $   908    $   (49)   $   859
Lease/contract terminations                         562       (410)       152
Other restructuring costs                            27        (27)      --
Intangible and other asset impairment charges     3,000     (3,000)      --
                                                $ 4,497    $(3,486)   $ 1,011

</TABLE>

   On January 25, 2001, the Company suffered a fire at its
Maillefer facility in Switzerland. The fire caused severe damage
to a building and to most of the equipment it contained. During
the third quarter of 2002, the Company received insurance
proceeds for settlement of the damages caused to the building.
These proceeds resulted in the Company recognizing a net gain on
the damaged building of approximately $0.7 million. The Company
also received insurance proceeds on the destroyed equipment
during the fourth quarter of 2001 and recorded the related
disposal gains of $5.8 million during that period.

   During the second quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a
charge of $1.7 million for restructuring and other costs. The
charge primarily related to the elimination of duplicative
functions created as a result of combining the Company's Ceramed
and U.S. Friadent divisions. Included in this charge were
severance costs of $0.6 million, lease/contract termination costs
of $0.9 million and $0.2 million of impairment charges on fixed
assets that will be disposed of as a result of the restructuring
plan. This restructuring plan resulted in the elimination of
approximately 35 administrative and manufacturing positions in
the United States and was substantially complete as of December
31, 2002.

   As part of combining Austenal with the Company in 2002, $4.4
million of liabilities were established through purchase price
accounting for the restructuring of the acquired company's
operations, primarily in the United States and Germany. Included
in this liability were severance costs of $2.9 million,
lease/contract termination costs of $1.4 million and other
restructuring costs of $0.1 million. During 2003 the Company
reversed a total of $1.1 million, which was recorded to goodwill,
as a change in estimate as it determined the costs to complete
the plan were lower than originally estimated. This restructuring
plan included the elimination of approximately 75 administrative
and manufacturing positions in the United States and Germany, 20
of which remain to be eliminated as of December 31, 2003. The
Company anticipates that most aspects of this plan will be
completed by the first quarter of 2004.

   The major components of the 2002 restructuring charges and the
amounts recorded through purchase price accounting and the
remaining outstanding balances at December 31, 2003 are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                          Change
                                                                                        in Estimate
                                               Amounts                                    Recorded
                                              Recorded                                    Through
                                              Through    Amounts     Change    Amounts   Purchase    Balance
                                  2002       Purchase    Applied  in Estimate  Applied  Accounting  December 31,
                                Provisions   Accounting   2002       2002       2003       2003       2003
<S>                              <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Severance                        $   541   $ 2,927    $  (530)   $  (164)   $  (988)   $  (878)   $   908
Lease/contract terminations          895     1,437       (500)       120       (665)      (245)     1,042
Other restructuring costs             38        60        (60)       (36)      --         --            2
Fixed asset impairment charges       195      --         (195)      --         --         --         --
                                 $ 1,669   $ 4,424    $(1,285)   $   (80)   $(1,653)   $(1,123)   $ 1,952


</TABLE>


<PAGE>



   The Company's subsidiary in the United Kingdom restructured its
pension plans in the fourth quarter of 2001, simplifying its
structure by consolidating its two separate defined contribution
plans into one plan and terminating the other plan. An
unallocated surplus of approximately $8.5 million existed in the
terminated plan. As a result, these unallocated funds reverted
back to the Company.

   As discussed in Note 3, the Company agreed in 2001 to a payment
of $2.0 million to AstraZeneca related to the submission of the
Oraqix product New Drug Application in the U.S. and a Marketing
Authorization Application in Europe. Under the terms of the
agreement, this payment and related estimated application costs
were accrued during the fourth quarter of 2001.

   In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a charge of
$12.3 million for restructuring and other costs.  The charge
included costs of $6.0 million to restructure the Company's
existing operations, primarily in Germany, Japan and Brazil, as a
result of the integration with Degussa Dental. Included in this
charge were severance costs of $2.1 million, lease/contract
termination costs of $1.1 million and other restructuring costs
of $0.2 million. In addition, the Company recorded $2.6 million
of impairment charges on fixed assets that will be disposed of as
a result of the restructuring plan. The remaining charge of $6.3
million involves impairment charges on intangible assets. During
2002 and 2003 the Company reversed a net total of $1.0 million
and $0.8 million, respectively, as a change in estimate as it
determined the costs to complete the plan were lower than
originally estimated. This restructuring plan resulted in the
elimination of approximately 160 administrative and manufacturing
positions in Germany, Japan and Brazil. As part of these
reorganization activities, some of these positions were replaced
with lower-cost outsourced services. This plan was substantially
complete at December 31, 2003. The impairment charge of $6.3
million includes the impairment of intangible assets related to
two acquisitions made in prior periods. One of these acquisitions
involved the exclusive patent rights for technology related to
cutting teeth in preparation for restoration, which was acquired
in September 1996. The other acquisition involved technology
related to a line of lotions and creams used to protect the hands
from irritants, which was acquired in September 2000. Based on a
slowing trend in sales related to the product lines associated
with these technologies in 2001, the Company performed impairment
evaluations, and as a result, recorded impairment charges of $2.0
million and $4.3 million for the teeth preparation product
intangibles and lotion product intangibles, respectively.

   In the first quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a charge of
$5.5 million related to reorganizing certain functions within
Europe, Brazil and North America. The primary objectives of this
reorganization were to consolidate duplicative functions and to
improve efficiencies within these regions. Included in this
charge were severance costs of $3.1 million, lease/contract
termination costs of $0.6 million and other restructuring costs
of $0.8 million. In addition, the Company recorded $1.0 million
of impairment charges on fixed assets that will be disposed of as
a result of the restructuring plan. This restructuring plan
resulted in the elimination of approximately 310 administrative
and manufacturing positions in Brazil and Germany. As part of
these reorganization activities, some of these positions were
replaced with lower-cost outsourced services. During the first
quarter of 2002, this plan was substantially completed and the
remaining accrual balances of $1.9 million were reversed as a
change in estimate.

   As part of combining Friadent and Degussa Dental with the
Company in 2001, $14.1 million of liabilities were established
through purchase price accounting for the restructuring of the
acquired companies' operations in Germany, Brazil, the United
States and Japan. Included in this liability were severance costs
of $11.9 million, lease/contract termination costs of $1.1
million and other restructuring costs of $1.1 million. During
2003 the Company reversed a total of $3.4 million, which was
recorded to goodwill, as a change in estimate as it determined
the costs to complete the plan were lower than originally
estimated. This restructuring plan resulted in the elimination of
approximately 190 administrative and manufacturing positions in
Germany, Brazil and the United States. This plan was
substantially complete at December 31, 2003.


<PAGE>



   The major components of the 2001 restructuring charges and the
amounts recorded through purchase price accounting and the
remaining outstanding balances at December 31, 2003 are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Change                          Change
                                                                               in Estimate                      in Estimate
                                     Amounts                                    Recorded                         Recorded
                                    Recorded                                     Through                         Through
                                    Through     Amounts    Amounts    Change    Purchase    Amounts    Change    Purchase    Balance
                        2001      Purchase    Applied    Applied    in Estimate Accounting  Applied  in Estimate Accounting December
                     Provisions   Accounting    2001       2002        2002       2002       2003       2003       2003     31, 2003
<S>                   <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>       <C>      <C>          <C>
Severance             $ 5,270    $ 11,929    $ (1,850)  $ (6,257)  $  (655)   $ (174)      $ (985)   $ (816)  $ (2,971)    $ 3,491
Lease/contract
  terminations          1,682       1,071        (563)      (579)     (721)      203         (291)        -        (50)        752
Other restructuring
  costs                   897       1,062           -       (552)     (759)      458         (175)       19       (375)        575
Fixed asset
  impairment charges    3,634           -      (3,634)       223      (747)      524            -         -          -           -
Intangible asset
  impairment charges    6,291           -       (6,291)        -         -         -            -         -          -           -
                     $ 17,774    $ 14,062    $ (12,338) $ (7,165)  $(2,882)   $1,011      $(1,451)   $ (797)  $ (3,396)    $ 4,818

</TABLE>

   During the fourth quarter 2003, the Company made the decision
to discontinue the operations of its dental needle business. The
business consists of one manufacturing location which will cease
operations by March 31, 2004. As a result of this decision, the
Company has recorded a charge of $1.6 million included in income
from discontinued operations. Included in this charge were
severance costs of $0.4 million, fixed asset impairment charges
of $0.5 million, $0.4 million of impairment charges related to
goodwill and other restructuring costs of $0.3 million. This plan
will result in the elimination of approximately 55 administrative
and manufacturing positions in the United States, most of which
remain to be eliminated at December 31, 2003. This plan is
expected to be substantially completed by March 31, 2004. The
major components of these charges and the remaining outstanding
balances at December 31, 2003 are as follows:


                                               Amounts  Balance
                                    2003       Applied December 31,
                                 Provisions     2003      2003
Severance                        $   405    $  --      $   405
Other restructuring costs            300       (300)      --
Fixed asset impairment charges       520       (520)      --
Goodwill impairment charges          360       (360)      --
                                 $ 1,585    $(1,180)   $   405


<PAGE>


NOTE 17 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND DERIVATIVES

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

   The fair value of financial instruments is determined by
reference to various market data and other valuation techniques
as appropriate. The Company believes the carrying amounts of cash
and cash equivalents, accounts receivable (net of allowance for
doubtful accounts), prepaid expenses and other current assets,
accounts payable, accrued liabilities, income taxes payable and
notes payable approximate fair value due to the short-term nature
of these instruments.  The Company estimates the fair value of
its total long-term debt was $815.8 million versus its carrying
value of $811.3 million as of December 31, 2003. The fair value
approximated the carrying value since much of the Company's debt
is variable rate and reflects current market rates. The fixed
rate Eurobonds are effectively converted to variable rate as a
result of an interest rate swap and the interest rates on
revolving debt and commercial paper are variable and therefore
the fair value of these instruments approximates their carrying
values. The Company has fixed rate Swiss franc and Japanese yen
denominated notes with estimated fair values that differ from
their carrying values. At December 31, 2003, the fair value of
these instruments was $241.8 million versus their carrying values
of $237.4 million. The fair values differ from the carrying
values due to lower market interest rates at December 31, 2003
versus the rates at issuance of the notes.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

   The Company's activities expose it to a variety of market risks
which primarily include the risks related to the effects of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and
commodity prices. These financial exposures are monitored and
managed by the Company as part of its overall risk-management
program. The objective of this risk management program is to
reduce the potentially adverse effects that these market risks
may have on the Company's operating results.

   A portion of the Company's borrowings and certain inventory
purchases are denominated in foreign currencies which exposes the
Company to market risk associated with exchange rate movements.
The Company's policy generally is to hedge major foreign currency
transaction exposures through foreign exchange forward
contracts.  These contracts are entered into with major financial
institutions thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss.  In
addition, the Company's investments in foreign subsidiaries are
denominated in foreign currencies, which creates exposures to
changes in exchange rates. The Company uses debt denominated in
the applicable foreign currency as a means of hedging a portion
of this risk.

   With the Company's significant level of long-term debt, changes
in the interest rate environment can have a major impact on the
Company's earnings, depending upon its interest rate exposure. As
a result, the Company manages its interest rate exposure with the
use of interest rate swaps, when appropriate, based upon market
conditions.

   The manufacturing of some of the Company's products requires
the use of commodities which are subject to market fluctuations.
In order to limit the unanticipated earnings fluctuations from
such market fluctuations, the Company selectively enters into
commodity price swaps, primarily for silver, used in the
production of dental amalgam.  Additionally, the Company uses
non-derivative methods, such as the precious metal consignment
agreement to effectively hedge commodity risks.


<PAGE>



Cash Flow Hedges

   The  Company  uses  interest  rate swaps to convert a portion of
its  variable  rate debt to fixed rate  debt.  As of  December  31,
2003,  the Company has two groups of  significant  variable rate to
fixed  rate  interest  rate  swaps.  One of the groups of swaps was
entered  into in January  2000 and  February  2001,  has a notional
amount   totaling  180  million  Swiss  francs,   and   effectively
converts the  underlying  variable  interest rates on the debt to a
fixed rate of 3.3% for a period of  approximately  four years.  The
other  significant  group of swaps  entered into in February  2002,
has  notional  amounts  totaling  12.6  billion  Japanese  yen, and
effectively  converts the underlying  variable interest rates to an
average  fixed  rate of 1.6%  for a term of ten  years.  As part of
entering  into  the  Japanese  yen  swaps  in  February  2002,  the
Company  entered into reverse swap  agreements  with the same terms
to offset 115  million of the 180  million  of Swiss  franc  swaps.
Additionally,  in the third quarter of 2003, the Company  exchanged
the  remaining  portion of the Swiss franc swaps,  65 million Swiss
francs,  for a  forward-starting  variable to fixed  interest  rate
swap.  Completion  of this  exchange  allowed  the  Company  to pay
down debt and the  forward-starting  interest  rate  swap  locks in
the rate of borrowing  for future Swiss franc  variable  rate debt,
that will  arise  upon the  maturity  of the  Company's  fixed rate
Swiss franc notes in 2005, at 4.2% for a term of seven years.

   The Company selectively enters into commodity price swaps to
effectively fix certain variable raw material costs. In November
2002, the Company entered into a commodity price swap agreement
with notional amounts totaling 300,000 troy ounces of silver
bullion to hedge forecasted purchases throughout calendar year
2003. The average fixed rate of this agreement is $4.65 per troy
ounce. The Company generally hedges between 33% and 67% of its
projected annual silver needs.

   The Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge the
foreign currency exposure of its anticipated purchases of certain
inventory from Japan. The forward contracts that are used in this
program mature in twelve months or less. The Company generally
hedges between 33% and 67% of its anticipated purchases from
Japan.

   During 2002 and 2001, the Company recognized net losses of $0.1
million and $0.4 million, respectively, in "Other expense
(income), net", which represented the total ineffectiveness of
all cash flow hedges. During 2003, the Company recognized  gains
of $0.1 million offset by losses of $0.1 million due to
ineffectiveness of its cash flow hedges.

   As of December 31, 2003, $0.3 million of deferred net gains on
derivative instruments recorded in "Accumulated other
comprehensive gain (loss)" are expected to be reclassified to
current earnings during the next twelve months. Transactions and
events that are expected to occur over the next twelve months
that will necessitate such a reclassification include the sale of
inventory that includes previously hedged purchases made in
Japanese yen. The maximum term over which the Company is hedging
exposures to variability of cash flows (for all forecasted
transactions, excluding interest payments on variable-rate debt)
is eighteen months.

Fair Value Hedges

   The Company uses interest rate swaps to convert a portion of
its fixed rate debt to variable rate debt.  In December 2001, the
Company issued 350 million in Eurobonds at a fixed rate of 5.75%
maturing in December 2006 to partially finance the Degussa Dental
acquisition.  Coincident with the issuance of the Eurobonds, the
Company entered into two integrated transactions:  (a) an
interest rate swap agreement with notional amounts totaling Euro
350 million which converted the 5.75% fixed rate Euro-denominated
financing to a variable rate (based on the London Interbank
Borrowing Rate) Euro-denominated financing; and (b) a
cross-currency basis swap which converted this variable rate
Euro-denominated financing to variable rate U.S.
dollar-denominated financing.

   The Euro 350 million interest rate swap agreement was
designated as a fair value hedge of the Euro 350 million in fixed
rate debt pursuant to SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 133).  In
accordance with SFAS No. 133, the interest rate swap and
underlying Eurobond have been marked-to-market via the income
statement.  As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the accumulated
fair value of the interest rate swap was $14.1million and $10.9
million, respectively, and was recorded in Other Noncurrent
Assets.  The notional amount of the underlying Eurobond was
increased by a corresponding amount at December 31, 2003 and
2002.


<PAGE>



   From inception through the first quarter of 2003, the
cross-currency element of the integrated transaction was not
designated as a hedge and changes in the fair value of the
cross-currency element of the integrated transaction were
marked-to-market in the income statement, offsetting the impact
of the change in exchange rates on the Eurobonds that were also
recorded in the income statement. As of December 31, 2003 and
2002, the accumulated fair value of the cross-currency element of
the integrated transaction was $56.6 million and $52.3 million,
respectively, and was recorded in Other Noncurrent Assets.  The
notional amount of the underlying Eurobond was increased by a
corresponding amount at December 31, 2003 and 2002.See Hedges of
Net Investments in Foreign Operations below for further
information related to the cross-currency element of the
integrated transaction.

Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations

   The Company has numerous investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The net assets of these subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in
currency exchange rates.  Currently, the Company uses both
non-derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency
denominated debt held at the parent company level and long-term
intercompany loans, for which settlement is not planned or
anticipated in the foreseeable future and derivative financial
instruments to hedge some of this exposure.  Translation gains
and losses related to the net assets of the foreign subsidiaries
are offset by gains and losses in the non-derivative and
derivative financial instruments designated as hedges of net
investments.

   At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had Swiss
franc-denominated and Japanese yen-denominated debt (at the
parent company level) to hedge the currency exposure related to a
designated portion of the net assets of its Swiss and Japanese
subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2003, the Company also had
Euro-denominated debt designated as a hedge of a designated
portion of the net assets of its European subsidiaries, due to
the change in the cross-currency element of the integrated
transaction discussed below.  At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the
accumulated translation losses related to foreign
currency denominated-debt included in Accumulated Other
Comprehensive income (loss) were $83.5 million and $26.4 million,
respectively.

   In the first quarter of 2003, the Company amended the
cross-currency element of the integrated transaction to realize
the $ 51.8 million of accumulated value of the cross-currency
swap.  The amendment eliminated the final payment (at a fixed
rate of $.90) of $315 million by the Company in exchange for the
final payment of Euro 350 million by the counterparty in return
for the counterparty paying the Company LIBOR plus 4.29% for the
remaining term of the agreement or approximately $14.0 million on
an annual basis.  Other cash flows associated with the
cross-currency element of the integrated transaction, including
the Company's obligation to pay on $315 million LIBOR plus
approximately 1.34% and the counterparty's obligation to pay on
Euro 350 million LIBOR plus approximately 1.47%, remained
unchanged by the amendment. Additionally, the cross-currency
element of the integrated transaction continue to be
marked-to-market.

   No gain or loss was recognized upon the amendment of the cross
currency element of the integrated transaction, as the interest
rate of LIBOR plus 4.29% was established to ensure that the fair
value of the cash flow streams before and after amendment were
equivalent.

   Since, as a result of the amendment, the Company became
economically exposed to the impact of exchange rates on the final
principal payment on the Euro 350 million Eurobonds, the Company
designated the Euro 350 million Eurobonds as a hedge of net
investment, on the date of the amendment.  Since March 2003, the
effect of currency on the Euro 350 million Eurobonds of $ 35.2
million has been recorded as part of Accumulated Other
Comprehensive income (loss).

Other

   As of December 31, 2003, the Company had recorded assets
representing the fair value of derivative instruments of $8.4
million in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" and $62.5
million in "Other noncurrent assets" on the balance sheet and
liabilities representing the fair value of derivative instruments
of $1.8 million in "Accrued liabilities" and $5.8 million in
"Other noncurrent liabilities".


<PAGE>



In accordance with SFAS 52, "Foreign Currency Translation", the
Company utilizes long-term intercompany loans to eliminate
foreign currency transaction exposures of certain foreign
subsidiaries. Net gains or losses related to these long-term
intercompany loans, those for which settlement is not planned or
anticipated in the foreseeable future, are included "Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss)".


NOTE 18 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Leases
   The Company leases automobiles and machinery and equipment and
certain office, warehouse, and manufacturing facilities under
non-cancelable operating leases.  These leases generally require
the Company to pay insurance, taxes and other expenses related to
the leased property.  Total rental expense for all operating
leases was $20.7 million for 2003, $17.4 million for 2002, and
$12.0 million for 2001.

   Rental commitments, principally for real estate (exclusive of
taxes, insurance and maintenance), automobiles and office
equipment are as follows (in thousands):

2004                                       $ 18,115
2005                                         11,778
2006                                          7,855
2007                                          4,420
2008                                          2,965
2009 and thereafter                           6,830
                                           $ 51,963

Litigation

   DENTSPLY and its subsidiaries are from time to time parties to
lawsuits arising out of their respective operations.  The Company
believes it is remote that pending litigation to which DENTSPLY
is a party will have a material adverse effect upon its
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

   In June  1995,  the  Antitrust  Division  of the  United  States
Department   of  Justice   initiated  an  antitrust   investigation
regarding  the policies  and conduct  undertaken  by the  Company's
Trubyte  Division  with respect to the  distribution  of artificial
teeth and related  products.  On January 5, 1999 the  Department of
Justice  filed  a  Complaint   against  the  Company  in  the  U.S.
District   Court  in   Wilmington,   Delaware   alleging  that  the
Company's tooth  distribution  practices violate the antitrust laws
and   seeking  an  order  for  the  Company  to   discontinue   its
practices.  The  trial in the  government's  case was held in April
and May 2002.  On August  14,  2003,  the Judge  entered a decision
that the  Company's  tooth  distribution  practices  do not violate
the  antitrust  laws.  On  October  14,  2003,  the  Department  of
Justice  appealed this decision to the U.S.  Third Circuit Court of
Appeals.  The parties are  proceeding  under the briefing  schedule
issued by the Third Circuit.

   Subsequent to the filing of the Department of Justice  Complaint
in 1999,  several  private  party class actions were filed based on
allegations  similar to those in the  Department  of Justice  case,
on  behalf of  laboratories,  and  denture  patients  in  seventeen
states who purchased Trubyte teeth or products  containing  Trubyte
teeth.  These cases were transferred to the U.S.  District Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware.  The private  party suits seek damages in an
unspecified  amount.  The Court has  granted the  Company's  Motion
on the  lack  of  standing  of the  laboratory  and  patient  class
actions  to  pursue   damage   claims.   The   Plaintiffs   in  the
laboratory  case have  filed a petition  with the Third  Circuit to
hear an  interlocutory  appeal  of  this  decision.  Also,  private
party  class  actions on behalf of indirect  purchasers  were filed
in  California  and  Florida  state  courts.   The  California  and
Florida cases have been dismissed by the  Plaintiffs  following the
decision  by the  Federal  District  Court  Judge  issued in August
2003.


<PAGE>



   On March 27, 2002, a Complaint was filed in Alameda County,
California (which was transferred to Los Angeles County) by Bruce
Glover, D.D.S. alleging, inter alia, breach of express and
implied warranties, fraud, unfair trade practices and negligent
misrepresentation in the Company's manufacture and sale of
Advance(R) cement.  The Complaint seeks damages in an unspecified
amount for costs incurred in repairing dental work in which the
Advance(R) product allegedly failed.  In September 2003, the
Plaintiff filed a Motion for class certification, which the
Company opposed.  Oral arguments were held in December 2003, and
in January, 2004, the Judge entered an Order granting class
certification only on the claims of breach of warranty and
fraud.  In general, the Class is defined as California dentists
who purchased and used Advance(R) cement and were required, because
of failures of Advance(R), to repair or reperform dental
procedures.  The Company has filed a Writ of Mandate in the
appellate court seeking reversal of the class certification.  The
Advance(R) cement product was sold from 1994 through 2000 and total
sales in the United States during that period were approximately
$5.2 million.

Other
   The Company has no material non-cancelable purchase commitments.

   The Company has employment agreements with its executive
officers.  These agreements generally provide for salary
continuation for a specified number of months under certain
circumstances.  If all of the employees under contract were to be
terminated by the Company without cause (as defined in the
agreements), the Company's liability would be approximately $11.4
million at December 31, 2003.

   Noncurrent Income Taxes Payable, included as part of Other
Noncurrent Liabilities (Note 12), represent accruals for tax
contingencies, the majority of which are attributable to acquired
companies.  These reserves were established at the time of
purchase to provide for the adverse outcome of tax proceedings
related to pre-acquisition periods.  The Company is subject to
ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various
jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the Company may record incremental
tax expense or reductions of excess purchase price based on the
outcome of such matters. The change from 2002 to 2003 of $22.1
million is primarily related the reversal of preacquisition tax
contingencies as discussed in Note 9.


NOTE 19 - ACCOUNTING CHARGES AND RESERVE REVERSALS


   In the first and second quarters of 2003, the Company recorded
pretax charges of $4.1 million and $5.5 million, respectively,
related primarily to adjustments to inventory, accounts
receivable, and prepaid expense accounts at one division in the
United States and two international subsidiaries.  All of these
operating units had been involved in integrating one or more of
the acquisitions completed in 2001.  Of the $9.6 million in total
pretax charges recorded in the first and second quarters of 2003,
$2.4 million were determined to be properly recorded as changes
in estimate, $0.4 million were determined to be errors between
the first and second quarters of 2003, and the remaining $6.8
million ($4.6 million after tax) were determined to be errors
relating in prior periods ("Charge Errors").  The Charge Errors
included $3.0 million related to inaccurate reconciliations and
valuation of inventory, $2.0 million related to inaccurate
reconciliations and valuation of accounts receivable, $1.3
million related to unrecoverable prepaid expenses and $0.5
million related to other accounts.  Had the Charge Errors been
recorded in the proper period, net income as reported would have
been decreased by $0.6 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in 2001
and $4.0 million ($0.05 per diluted share) in 2002.  Recording
the effect of the Charge Errors in 2003 reduced net income by
$4.6 million ($0.06 per diluted share).

   In addition to the aforementioned, in the first and second
quarters of 2003, the Company determined that $4.8 million in
reserves reversed in 2003 and $4.1 million of reserves reversed
in 2001 and 2002 should have been reversed in earlier years or
had been erroneously established ("Reserve Errors). The Reserve
Errors occurred in 2000 through 2002 and related primarily to
asset valuation accounts and accrued liabilities, including (on a
pre-tax basis) $5.1 million related to product return provisions,
$1.1 million related to bonus accruals, $0.8 million related to
product warranties, $0.7 million related to inventory valuation
and $1.2 million related to other accounts.  Had the Reserve
Errors been recorded in the proper period, they would have
increased net income as reported by $0.8 million ($0.01 per
diluted share) in 2000, $1.8 million ($0.02 per diluted share) in
2001 and $0.7 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in 2002.
Recording the effect of the Reserve Errors in 2003 increased net
income by $3.3 million ($0.04 per diluted share).


<PAGE>



   The above described charges (including the $2.4 million changes
in estimates) and Reserve Errors amounted to $19.9 million
(pre-tax) on an absolute basis and occurred from 2000 through the
second quarter of 2003.  Included in this total, are $2.0 million
of Reserve Errors and $0.4 million of Charge Errors that
originated and reversed in different quarters of same year. In
the aggregate, had the Charge Errors and Reserve Errors described
above been recorded in the proper period, reported net income
would have increased by $0.8 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in
2000, $1.2 million ($0.02 per diluted share) in 2001 and
decreased by $3.4 million ($0.04 per diluted share) in 2002.  The
effect of recording the Reserve Errors and Charge Errors in 2003
reduced net income by $1.3 million ($0.02 per diluted share).

   The Company performed an analysis of the Charge Errors and
Reserve Errors on both a qualitative and quantitative basis and
concluded that the errors were not material to the results of
operations and financial position of the Company for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003.  Accordingly, prior
period financial statements have not been restated.


<PAGE>


NOTE 20 - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           First           Second           Third          Fourth           Total
                                                          Quarter          Quarter         Quarter         Quarter           Year
                                                                           (in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
2003

Net sales                                                $371,236        $394,478        $375,503        $429,708        $1,570,925
Gross profit                                              182,762         198,075         183,801         208,563           773,201
Operating income                                           60,524          69,840          63,781          73,838           267,983
Income from continuing operations                          37,439          43,450          40,287          48,677           169,853
Income from discontinued operations                           828             768           1,027           1,707             4,330
Net income                                               $ 38,267        $ 44,218        $ 41,314        $ 50,384        $  174,183

Earnings per common share - basic
  Continuing operations                                    $ 0.48          $ 0.55          $ 0.51          $ 0.62            $ 2.16
  Discontinued operations                                    0.01            0.01            0.01            0.02              0.05
Total earnings per common share - basic                    $ 0.49          $ 0.56          $ 0.52          $ 0.64            $ 2.21

Earnings per common share - diluted
  Continuing operations                                    $ 0.47          $ 0.54          $ 0.50          $ 0.60            $ 2.11
  Discontinued operations                                    0.01            0.01            0.01            0.02              0.05
Total earnings per common share - diluted                  $ 0.48          $ 0.55          $ 0.51          $ 0.62            $ 2.16

Cash dividends declared per common share                  $ 0.046         $ 0.046         $0.0525         $0.0525           $ 0.197

2002

Net sales                                                $331,650        $361,601        $340,301        $384,048        $1,417,600
Gross profit                                              163,169         178,654         171,239         191,349           704,411
Operating income                                           55,715          62,945          59,539          71,253           249,452
Income from continuing operations                          32,148          35,810          34,900          40,783           143,641
Income from discontinued operations                           948           1,010             866           1,487             4,311
Net income                                               $ 33,096        $ 36,820        $ 35,766        $ 42,270        $  147,952

Earnings per common share - basic
  Continuing operations                                    $ 0.41          $ 0.46          $ 0.45          $ 0.52            $ 1.84
  Discontinued operations                                    0.01            0.01            0.01            0.02              0.05
Total earnings per common share - basic                    $ 0.42          $ 0.47          $ 0.46          $ 0.54            $ 1.89

Earnings per common share - diluted
  Continuing operations                                    $ 0.40          $ 0.45          $ 0.44          $ 0.51            $ 1.80
  Discontinued operations                                    0.01            0.01            0.01            0.02              0.05
Total earnings per common share - diluted                  $ 0.41          $ 0.46          $ 0.45          $ 0.53            $ 1.85

Cash dividends declared per common share                  $ 0.046         $ 0.046         $ 0.046         $ 0.046           $ 0.184


</TABLE>

   As described in Note 19, the Company recorded pre-tax charges
of $4.1 million and $5.5 million in the first and second quarters
of 2003, respectively.;  Of these amounts,  $3.3 million and $3.5
million, respectively, were determined to be errors related
primarily to prior years and $0.8 million and $1.6 million,
respectively, were determined to be changes in estimates.  In
addition $0.4 of charges recognized in the second quarter of
2003, should have been recognized in the first quarter of 2003
Also in the first and second quarters of 2003, the Company
reversed $2.4 million and $4.4 million, respectively, of certain
reserves that should have been reversed in earlier periods or had
been erroneously established, including $2.0 million of reserves
reversed in the second quarter of 2003 that should have been
reversed in the first quarter of 2003.    If the above described
errors had been recorded in the proper periods,  net income would
have been higher by $1.7 million ($0.02 per diluted share) in the
first quarter of 2003 and lower by $0.4 million (less than $0.01
per diluted share) in the second quarter of 2003.


<PAGE>



   Of the above described charge errors, $6.0 million should have
been recorded as an expense in 2002. Of this amount, $2.1 million
(pre-tax) is related to physical inventory-related issues at one
of the Company's operations in the United States.  While the
Company has concluded that the inventory issues arose in 2002,
due to the nature of the issues, the Company is unable to
allocate the $2.1 million to any interim period within 2002.  If
the remaining $3.9 million of pre-tax charge errors ($2.6 million
after-tax) had been recorded in the appropriate interim periods,
net income would have decreased by $0.4 million (less than $0.01
per diluted share) in the first quarter of 2002, $1.1 million
($0.01 per diluted share) in the second quarter of 2002, $0.3
million (less than $0.01 per diluted share) in the third quarter
of 2002 and  $0.8 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in the fourth
quarter of 2002.

   Of the above described reserve errors, $1.0 million pre-tax,
should have been recorded as a reduction of expense in 2002, net
of the impact of reserves that reversed in error in 2002.   If
these reserves and reversals  had been recorded in the
appropriate interim periods net income would have decreased by
$0.3 million (less than $0.01 per diluted share) in the first
quarter of 2002, increased by $0.6 million ($0.01 per diluted
share) in the second quarter of 2002, decreased by $0.6 million
($0.01 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2002, and
increased by $1.0 million ($0.01 per diluted share) in the fourth
quarter of 2002.


Supplemental Stock Information

   The common stock of the Company is traded on the NASDAQ
National Market under the symbol "XRAY".  The following table
sets forth high, low and closing sale prices of the Company's
common stock for the periods indicated as reported on the NASDAQ
National Market:



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Market Range of Common Stock             Period-end            Cash
                                                                                   Closing             Dividend
                                            High                  Low                Price             Declared
<S>                                      <C>                   <C>                 <C>                 <C>
          2003
First Quarter                            $ 37.95               $ 32.10             $ 34.79             $0.04600
Second Quarter                             41.10                 32.35               40.96              0.04600
Third Quarter                              47.05                 40.41               44.84              0.05250
Fourth Quarter                             47.40                 41.85               45.17              0.05250

          2002
First Quarter                            $ 37.93               $ 31.60             $ 37.06             $0.04600
Second Quarter                             40.95                 35.25               36.91              0.04600
Third Quarter                              43.50                 31.25               40.17              0.04600
Fourth Quarter                             43.10                 31.89               37.20              0.04600

          2001
First Quarter                            $ 26.67               $ 21.67             $ 24.33             $0.04583
Second Quarter                             31.07                 23.33               29.57              0.04583
Third Quarter                              31.63                 26.01               30.63              0.04583
Fourth Quarter                             34.69                 28.62               33.47              0.04584


<FN>
All amounts reflect the 3-for-2 stock split effective January 31, 2002.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The Company estimates, based on information supplied by its transfer agent,
that there are approximately 26,700 holders of common stock, including 493
holders of record.




<PAGE>


                           SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                                   DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC.


                                   By:/s/ Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.

                                    -----------------------------
                                      Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.
                                      Vice Chairman of the Board
                                      and Chief Executive Officer

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.


/s/ John C. Miles II                                            March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                   --------------------
John C. Miles II                                                    Date

Chairman of the Board and a Director


/s/ Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.                                       March 15, 2004
----------------------------                                --------------------
Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.                                               Date
Vice Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer and a Director
(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Bret W. Wise                                                March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Bret W. Wise                                                       Date
Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)


/s/ Dr. Michael C. Alfano                                       March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                   --------------------
Dr. Michael C. Alfano                                              Date
Director



/s/ Paula H. Cholmondeley                                       March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Paula H. Cholmondeley                                              Date
Director



<PAGE>



/s/ Michael J. Coleman                                          March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                   --------------------
Michael J. Coleman                                                 Date
Director


/s/ William F. Hecht                                           March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                   --------------------
William F. Hecht                                                  Date
Director


/s/ Leslie A. Jones                                             March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Leslie A. Jones                                                    Date
Director


/s/ Betty Jane Scheihing                                        March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                   --------------------
Betty Jane Scheihing                                                Date
Director


/s/Edgar H. Schollmaier                                         March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                   --------------------
Edgar H. Schollmaier                                               Date
Director


/s/ W. Keith Smith                                              March 15, 2004
-------------------------                                   --------------------
W. Keith Smith                                                      Date
Director



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
