<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>f10ked.txt
<TEXT>
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549

                            FORM 10-K

           FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT
 TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      (Mark One)
      [ X ]ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

                               OR

      [   ]TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                 THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For  the   transition   period  from   __________   to ___________

                    Commission file number 0-16211

                     DENTSPLY International Inc.
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                      Delaware                       39-1434669
                (State or other jurisdiction of     (IRS Employer
                   incorporation or organization)  Identification No.)

     570 West College Avenue, York, Pennsylvania     17405-0872
       (Address of principal executive offices)      (Zip code)

Registrant's   telephone  number,   including  area  code:  (717)845-7511

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

          Title of each class     Name of each exchange on which registered

                      None                 Not applicable

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

             Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                        (Title of class)

      Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has
filed all  reports  required  to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d)
of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the  preceding 12
months  (or for  such  shorter  period  that the  registrant  was
required  to file such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject to
such  filing  requirements  for the  past 90  days.  Yes [X] No [ ]




D1
<PAGE>





      Indicate by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent  filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,
and  will  not  be  contained,   to  the  best  of   registrant's
knowledge,   in  definitive   proxy  or  information   statements
incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

      As of February  22,  2002,  the  aggregate  market value of
voting  common stock held by  non-affiliates  of the  registrant,
based  upon the last  reported  sale  price for the  registrant's
Common  Stock on the  Nasdaq  National  Market  on such  date was
$2,597,726,348    (calculated    by   excluding    shares   owned
beneficially  by  directors  and  executive  officers  as a group
from total  outstanding  shares  solely  for the  purpose of this
response).

      The  number  of  shares of the  registrant's  Common  Stock
outstanding  as of the close of  business  on  February  22, 2002
was 77,924,485.

               DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      Certain  portions  of the  registrant's  annual  report  to
shareholders  for fiscal  year 2001 (the "2001  Annual  Report to
Shareholders")  are  incorporated  by reference  into Parts I and
II of this  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K to the  extent  provided
herein.  Certain  portions of the definitive  Proxy  Statement of
DENTSPLY  International  Inc. to be used in  connection  with the
2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders  (the "Proxy  Statement") are
incorporated  by  reference  into Part III of this Annual  Report
on  Form  10-K  to  the  extent   provided   herein.   Except  as
specifically  incorporated by reference herein,  neither the 2001
Annual Report to  Shareholders  nor the Proxy  Statement is to be
deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


D1
<PAGE>


                             PART I

Item 1.  Business

Certain  statements  made  by  the  Company,   including  without
limitation,    statements    containing    the   words   "plans",
"anticipates",  "believes", "expects", or words of similar import
may be  deemed  to be  forward-looking  statements  and are  made
pursuant   to  the  safe   harbor   provisions   of  the  Private
Securities   Litigation   Reform  Act  of  1995.   Investors  are
cautioned  that  forward-looking  statements  involve  risks  and
uncertainties   which  may   materially   affect  the   Company's
business and prospects.

History and Overview

   DENTSPLY  International Inc. ("DENTSPLY" or the "Company"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  was  created  by  a  merger  of  Dentsply
International  Inc. ("Old  Dentsply")  and GENDEX  Corporation in
1993  (the  "Merger").  Old  Dentsply,  founded  in  1899,  was a
manufacturer   and  distributor  of  artificial   teeth,   dental
equipment,  and dental consumable  products.  GENDEX,  founded in
1983,   was  a  manufacturer   of  dental  x-ray   equipment  and
handpieces.  Today,  DENTSPLY  is the world's  largest  designer,
developer,   manufacturer  and  marketer  of  a  broad  range  of
products  for  the  dental   market.   The  Company's   worldwide
headquarters   and   executive   offices  are  located  in  York,
Pennsylvania.

   The  Company  operates  in a  single  reporting  segment  as a
designer,  manufacturer  and  distributor  of dental  products in
two   principal   categories:   dental   consumables   and  small
equipment,  and large  equipment.  Sales of the Company's  dental
products   accounted   for   approximately   97%  of   DENTSPLY's
consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2001.

   The  Company   conducts  its  business  in  over  120  foreign
countries,   principally   through  its   foreign   subsidiaries.
DENTSPLY  has a  long-established  presence  in Canada and in the
European market,  particularly in Germany,  Switzerland,  France,
Italy and the United  Kingdom.  Through  its recent  acquisitions
the Company has also gained access to other  European  markets in
the Netherlands  and Austria.  The Company also has a significant
market  presence in Central and South America  including  Brazil,
Mexico,  Argentina,  Colombia, and Chile; in South Africa; and in
the  Pacific  Rim  including   Australia,   New  Zealand,   China
(including  Hong Kong),  Thailand,  India,  Philippines,  Taiwan,
Korea,   Vietnam,   Indonesia   and  Japan.   DENTSPLY  has  also
established  marketing activities in Moscow,  Russia to serve the
countries of the former Soviet Union.

   For 2001,  2000 and 1999,  the  Company's  sales  outside  the
United   States,    including   export   sales,   accounted   for
approximately  49%, 42% and 45%,  respectively,  of  consolidated
net sales.  The  information  about the  Company's  United States
and  foreign  sales and  assets  set forth in Note 4 of the Notes
to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  the  Company's  2001
Annual  Report  to  Shareholders   is   incorporated   herein  by
reference.

   As  a  result  of  the  Company's  significant   international
operations,  DENTSPLY  is subject  to  fluctuations  in  exchange
rates of various  foreign  currencies and other risks  associated
with foreign trade.  The impact of currency  fluctuations  in any
given  period  can be  favorable  or  unfavorable.  The impact of
foreign   currency   fluctuations   of  European   currencies  on
operating  income  is  partially  offset  by sales in the  United
States  of   products   sourced   from  plants  and  third  party
suppliers   located   overseas,   principally   in  Germany   and
Switzerland.  The Company  enters into forward  foreign  exchange
contracts  to   selectively   hedge   assets,   liabilities   and
purchases  denominated  in foreign  currencies.  The  information
regarding  foreign exchange risk management  activities set forth
in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements in
the   Company's   2001   Annual   Report   to   Shareholders   is
incorporated herein by reference.

   DENTSPLY believes that the dental products industry is
experiencing substantial consolidation with respect to both
product manufacturing and distribution, although it continues
to be fragmented. Between January 1999 and December 2001,
DENTSPLY completed nine acquisitions (five in 2000 and four in
2001). The activity in 2001 includes three significant
acquisitions. In January 2001, the Company acquired the
outstanding shares of Friadent GmbH ("Friadent"), a global
dental implant manufacturer and marketer headquartered in
Mannheim, Germany. In March 2001, the Company acquired the
dental injectible anaesthetic assets of AstraZeneca ("AZ
Assets"). In October 2001, the Company acquired the Degussa
Dental Group ("Degussa Dental"), a manufacturer and seller of
dental products, including precious metal alloys, ceramics,
dental laboratory equipment and chairside products
headquartered in Hanau, Germany. Information about these
acquisitions and the other acquisition and divestiture
activities is set forth in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.  These
acquisitions are intended to supplement DENTSPLY's core growth
and assure ongoing expansion of its business. In addition,
acquisitions continue to provide DENTSPLY with new technologies
and additional product breadth.


D1
<PAGE>



   The acquisitions made by DENTSPLY involve a substantial
degree of risk. They are expected to result in benefits to
DENTSPLY, including expanding the products and services offered
by DENTSPLY to its customers and potential customers and
enhancing DENTSPLY's presence in the European and Japanese
market for dental products. Achieving the benefits of the
acquisitions, however, will depend on a number of factors,
including the integration of the operations and personnel of
DENTSPLY and the acquired companies in a timely and efficient
manner. The integration will be complicated by the need to
integrate geographically diverse operations. In general,
DENTSPLY cannot offer any assurances that it can successfully
integrate or realize the anticipated benefits of the
acquisitions. Failure to do so could result in the loss of key
personnel and have a material adverse effect on the acquired
businesses and DENTSPLY's financial condition and operating
results. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to the
integration of the acquired companies could significantly
divert management's attention from other important tasks and
could seriously harm DENTSPLY. Other risks include
unanticipated expenses related to technology integration,
difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls,
procedures and policies, the impairment of relationships with
employees and customers as a result of any integration of new
management personnel and potential unknown liabilities
associated with acquired businesses.

   Certain provisions of DENTSPLY's Certificate of
Incorporation and By-laws and of Delaware law could have the
effect of making it difficult for a third party to acquire
control of DENTSPLY. Such provisions include the division of
the Board of Directors of DENTSPLY into three classes, with the
three-year term of a class expiring each year, a provision
allowing the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock having
rights senior to those of the common stock and certain
procedural requirements which make it difficult for
stockholders to amend DENTSPLY's By-laws and which preclude
stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders. In
addition, members of DENTSPLY's management and participants in
its Employee Stock Ownership Plan collectively own
approximately 11% of the outstanding common stock of DENTSPLY,
which may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire
control of DENTSPLY in a transaction that is opposed by
DENTSPLY's management and employees.

Principal Products

   The worldwide  professional  dental  industry  encompasses the
diagnosis,  treatment  and  prevention of disease and ailments of
the teeth,  gums and  supporting  bone.  DENTSPLY's two principal
dental  product  lines are  consumables  and small  equipment and
large  equipment.  These  products are produced by the Company in
the  United  States  and   internationally  and  are  distributed
throughout  the  world  under  some of the most  well-established
brand names and  trademarks in the industry,  including  ACUCAM(R),
ANKYLOS(R),   AQUASIL(TM),  CAULK(R),  CAVITRON(R),   CERAMCO(R),   CERCON(R),
DELTON(R), DENOPTIX(TM),  DENTSPLY(R),  DETREY(R),  ELEPHANT(R),  ESTHET.X(R),
FRIALIT(R),  GAC  ORTHOWORKS(TM),  GENDEX(R),  IN-OVATION(TM),  MAILLEFER(R),
MIDWEST(R),   NUPRO(R),   PEPGEN  P-15(TM),   PROFILE(R),   RINN(R),   R&R(R),
SANI-TIP(R), THERMAFIL(R) and TRUBYTE(R).

   Consumables   and   Small   Equipment.   Consumable   products
consist  of  dental  sundries  used  in  dental  offices  in  the
treatment  of  patients  and  in  dental   laboratories   in  the
preparation  of dental  appliances.  DENTSPLY's  products in this
category  include  dental   prosthetics,   including   artificial
teeth,   endodontic  (root  canal)   instruments  and  materials,
dental  injectable   anesthetics,   prophylaxis   paste,   dental
sealants,    implants,    impression    materials,    restorative
materials,  precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics,  crown
and  bridge   materials,   tooth  whiteners,   topical  fluoride,
cutting instruments,  dental needles, and orthodontic  appliances
and   accessories.   The  Company   manufactures   thousands   of
different  consumable  and  laboratory  products  marketed  under
more  than  a  hundred  brand  names.  Small  equipment  products
consist  of various  durable  goods  used in dental  offices  for
treatment  of  patients  as  well  as  in  dental   laboratories.
DENTSPLY's  small equipment  products  include high and low speed
handpieces,  intraoral  lighting systems,  ultrasonic scalers and
polishers,  air abrasion  systems and porcelain  furnaces.  Sales
of consumable  and small  equipment  accounted for  approximately
90% of the  Company's  consolidated  sales  for  the  year  ended
December 31, 2001.

   Large Equipment.  Large equipment  products consist of various
durable   goods  used  in  dental   offices   primarily  for  the
diagnosis  of  patients  .  DENTSPLY's  large  equipment  product
lines include  conventional  and digital dental x-ray systems and
related support  equipment and  accessories,  intraoral  cameras,
computer  imaging  systems and related  software.  Sales of large
equipment   accounted  for  approximately  7%  of  the  Company's
consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2001.



D1
<PAGE>


Markets, Sales and Distribution

   DENTSPLY  distributes   approximately  50-60%  of  its  dental
products through domestic and foreign  distributors,  dealers and
importers.  However,  certain highly  technical  products such as
precious metal dental alloys,  dental ceramics,  crown and bridge
porcelain   products,   endodontic   instruments  and  materials,
orthodontic   appliances,   implants  and  bone   substitute  and
grafting  materials  are sold  directly to the dental  laboratory
or  dentist  in  some  markets.  Sales  to  two  customers,  both
distributors,   accounted  for  11%  and  9%,  respectively,   of
consolidated net sales in 2001.

   The  information  about the  Company's  foreign  and  domestic
operations  and export  sales set forth in Note 4 of the Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements in the Company's  2001 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

   Although   much  of  its  sales  are  made  to   distributors,
dealers,  and importers,  DENTSPLY focuses its marketing  efforts
on the dentists,  dental hygienists,  dental  assistants,  dental
laboratories  and  dental  schools  who are the end  users of its
products.  As part  of this  end-user  "pull  through"  marketing
approach,  DENTSPLY employs  approximately  1,700 highly trained,
product-specific   sales   and   technical   staff   to   provide
comprehensive  marketing and service  tailored to the  particular
sales and technical  support  requirements of the dealers and the
end  users.  The  Company  conducts  extensive   distributor  and
end-user  marketing  programs and trains  laboratory  technicians
and  dentists  in the  proper  use of its  products,  introducing
them   to   the   latest   technological   developments   at  its
Educational  Centers located in key dental  markets.  The Company
also  maintains   ongoing   relationships   with  various  dental
associations  and  recognized  worldwide  opinion  leaders in the
dental field.

   DENTSPLY  believes  that demand in a given  geographic  market
for  dental  procedures  and  products  varies  according  to the
stage of social,  economic  and  technical  development  that the
market has attained.  Geographic  markets for  DENTSPLY's  dental
products can be  categorized  into the following  three stages of
development:

   The  United  States,   Canada,   Western  Europe,  the  United
Kingdom,  Japan, and Australia are highly developed  markets that
demand the most  advanced  dental  procedures  and  products  and
have the highest  level of  expenditure  on dental care. In these
markets,   the  focus  of  dental  care  is   increasingly   upon
preventive care and specialized  dentistry.  In addition to basic
procedures  such as the  excavation  and filling of cavities  and
tooth extraction and denture  replacement,  dental  professionals
perform  an  increasing   volume  of   preventive   and  cosmetic
procedures.  These  markets  require  varied and  complex  dental
products,    utilize   sophisticated   diagnostic   and   imaging
equipment,  and demand high  levels of  attention  to  protection
against infection and patient cross-contamination.

   In certain  countries in Central  America,  South  America and
the Pacific Rim,  dental care is often limited to the  excavation
and  filling  of  cavities  and  other  restorative   techniques,
reflecting more modest per capita  expenditures  for dental care.
These  markets  demand  diverse  products  such as  high  and low
speed handpieces,  restorative  compounds,  finishing devices and
custom restorative devices.

   In the  People's  Republic of China,  India,  Eastern  Europe,
the countries of the former Soviet  Union,  and other  developing
countries,  dental ailments are treated  primarily  through tooth
extraction  and denture  replacement.  These  procedures  require
basic  surgical  instruments,  artificial  teeth for dentures and
bridgework, and anchoring devices such as posts.


D1
<PAGE>



   The Company  offers  products and equipment for use in markets
at each of these  stages of  development.  The  Company  believes
that  as  each  of  these  markets   develop,   demand  for  more
technically  advanced  products will  increase.  The Company also
believes  that its  recognized  brand  names,  high  quality  and
innovative  products,   technical  support  services  and  strong
international  distribution  capabilities  position  it  well  to
take  advantage  of any  opportunities  for  growth in all of the
markets that it serves.

   The following  trends support the Company's  confidence in its
industry growth outlook:

o     Increasing   worldwide   population  -  Population   growth
   continues throughout the world.

o     Growth of the  population  65 or older - The  percentage of
   the  United  States  and  European  population  over age 65 is
   expected  to nearly  double by the year 2030.  In  addition to
   having  significant  needs for dental  care,  the  elderly are
   well  positioned  to pay for  the  required  procedures  since
   they control sizable amounts of discretionary income.

o     Natural teeth are being retained longer - Individuals  with
   natural  teeth  are much more  likely to visit a dentist  in a
   given year than those without any natural teeth remaining.

o     The  changing  dental  practice  in  developed  countries -
   Dentistry in developed  countries has been  transformed from a
   profession  primarily dealing with pain,  infections and tooth
   decay to one with  increased  emphasis on preventive  care and
   cosmetic   dentistry.   DENTSPLY's   product  lines  are  well
   positioned  to provide the new  sophisticated  solutions  that
   these advanced procedures require.

o     Per capita and  discretionary  incomes  are  increasing  in
   emerging  nations - As  personal  incomes  continue to rise in
   the  emerging  nations of the Pacific  Rim and Latin  America,
   healthcare,   including   dental   services,   are  a  growing
   priority.

o     Growth in the field of  aesthetic  dentistry  - Those among
   the  aging  "Baby  Boomer"  population  are not  only  keeping
   their  natural  teeth  longer  but are  interested  in looking
   their  best,  increasing  the demand for tooth  whitening  and
   other aesthetic procedures.

Product Development

   Technological  innovation and successful  product  development
are critical to strengthening  the Company's  prominent  position
in  worldwide   dental   markets,   maintaining   its  leadership
positions  in  product  categories  where  it has a  high  market
share,  and increasing  market share in product  categories where
gains  are  possible.   While  many  of  DENTSPLY's   innovations
represent  sequential  improvements  of  existing  products,  the
Company  also  continues to  successfully  launch  products  that
represent  fundamental  change.  Its research centers  throughout
the  world  employ   approximately   330   scientists,   Ph.D.'s,
engineers  and  technicians  dedicated  to  research  and product
development.  Approximately  $28.3 million,  $20.4  million,  and
$18.5  million,  respectively,  was  internally  invested  by the
Company in connection  with the  development  of new products and
in the  improvement  of  existing  products  in the  years  ended
2001,  2000 and 1999,  respectively.  There  can be no  assurance
that  DENTSPLY  will be able to  continue  to develop  innovative
products and that  regulatory  approval of any new products  will
be  obtained,  or that  if  such  approvals  are  obtained,  such
products will be accepted in the marketplace.



D1
<PAGE>


Operating and Technical Expertise

   DENTSPLY  believes  that its  manufacturing  capabilities  are
important  to its  success.  The  Company  continues  to automate
its  global  manufacturing  operations  in order to  remain a low
cost producer.

   The   manufacture   of   the   Company's   products   requires
substantial and varied  technical  expertise.  Complex  materials
technology  and  processes  are  necessary  to  manufacture   the
Company's products.

    DENTSPLY  has  completed  or has in  progress a number of key
initiatives  around  the world that are  focused  on helping  the
Company improve its operating margins.

o     The Company's primary operational  initiative over the next
   1-2  years  will  be  to  successfully  integrate  the  recent
   acquisitions.

o     The  Company  has  recently  acquired a plant site  outside
   Chicago,  where it will  establish a major  dental  anesthetic
   filling  plant.  The Company  believes  that the plant will be
   operational,   which   includes  the  FDA  validation  of  the
   manufacturing practices, at the end of 2003.

o     The Company is creating a Corporate  Quality and Purchasing
   initiative   to  help  ensure   product   quality  and  reduce
   purchased product costs throughout the organization.

o     The   Company   has   centralized   its   warehousing   and
   distribution   in  North   America  and   Europe.   This  will
   minimize   both   inventory   levels  and  multiple   customer
   shipments.  It also  helps  improve  product  forecasting  and
   service to our customers.

o     In the first quarter of 2001, DENTSPLY  reorganized certain
   functions  within  Europe,  Brazil and North  America with the
   objective   of   consolidating   duplicative   functions   and
   improving  efficiencies  within these regions.  These measures
   have  resulted  in  the  elimination  of   approximately   310
   administrative  and  manufacturing  positions  in  Brazil  and
   Germany. Most aspects of this plan have been completed.

o     The   Company   continues   to  focus  on   improving   its
   manufacturing   processes  at  several  of  its  manufacturing
   locations,  providing  improved  flexibility.  This will allow
   them to continue to reduce  inventories  and improve  response
   times to changes in customer demand.

o     DENTSPLY  has also  completed  its  North  American  Shared
   Service   initiative   focused   on  the   consolidation   and
   centralization   of   the   financial    accounting    support
   functions.

o     DENTSPLY is making significant  improvements in Information
   Technology  as  well.  The  new  manufacturing  and  financial
   accounting  system was  implemented  in 1999 and  provides the
   Company  with  common  software  systems for nearly all of its
   locations  around the world  excluding  Friadent  and  Degussa
   Dental.  Worldwide  telecommunications  are  currently  a  key
   focus, as we continue to drive efficiencies.




D1
<PAGE>


Financing

   DENTSPLY's  long-term  debt at  December  31,  2001 was $723.5
million and the related  long-term  debt to total  capitalization
was 54.3%.  DENTSPLY  may incur  additional  debt in the  future,
including the funding of additional  acquisitions;  however,  the
Company's  primary  focus  in  2002  is  the  integration  of its
already   competed   acquisitions  and  the  repayment  of  debt.
DENTSPLY's  ability to make payments on its indebtedness,  and to
fund  its  operations  depends  on  its  future  performance  and
financial  results,  which, to a certain  extent,  are subject to
general economic,  financial,  competitive,  regulatory and other
factors  that are beyond its  control.  There can be no assurance
that  DENTSPLY's  business  will  generate  sufficient  cash flow
from  operations  in the future to service  its debt and  operate
its business.

   DENTSPLY's   existing  borrowing   documentation   contains  a
number of  covenants  and  financial  ratios which it is required
to  satisfy.  Any breach of any such  covenants  or  restrictions
would  result  in  a  default   under  the   existing   borrowing
documentation  that  would  permit the  lenders  to  declare  all
borrowings  under such  documentation  to be immediately  due and
payable and,  through  cross  default  provisions,  would entitle
DENTSPLY's  other  lenders to  accelerate  their loans.  DENTSPLY
may not be able to meet its  obligations  under  its  outstanding
indebtedness  in the event that any cross  default  provision  is
triggered.

   Additional   information  about  DENTSPLY's  working  capital,
liquidity  and  capital  resources  is  incorporated   herein  by
reference  to  the  material  under  the  caption   "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Competition

   The  Company  conducts  its  operations,   both  domestic  and
foreign,    under   highly    competitive    market   conditions.
Competition in the dental  products  industry is based  primarily
upon  product  performance,  quality,  safety and ease of use, as
well as price,  customer  service,  innovation  and acceptance by
professionals   and  technicians.   DENTSPLY  believes  that  its
principal  strengths  include its  well-established  brand names,
its reputation for  high-quality  and  innovative  products,  its
leadership  in product  development  and  manufacturing,  and its
commitment to customer service and technical support.

   The size  and  number  of the  Company's  competitors  vary by
product   line  and  from  region  to  region.   There  are  many
companies  that produce  some,  but not all, of the same types of
products   as  those   produced  by  the   Company.   Certain  of
DENTSPLY's  competitors may have greater  resources than does the
Company in certain of its product offerings.

   The  worldwide  market for dental  supplies  and  equipment is
highly  competitive.  There can be no assurance  that the Company
will   successfully   identify  new  product   opportunities  and
develop  and  market  new  products  successfully,  or  that  new
products and  technologies  introduced  by  competitors  will not
render the Company's products obsolete or noncompetitive.

Regulation

   The  Company's  products are subject to  regulation  by, among
other  governmental  entities,  the United  States  Food and Drug
Administration  (the  "FDA").  In general,  if a dental  "device"
is  subject  to  FDA   regulation,   compliance  with  the  FDA's
requirements  constitutes  compliance  with  corresponding  state
regulations.   In   order  to   ensure   that   dental   products
distributed  for  human  use in the  United  States  are safe and
effective,  the  FDA  regulates  the  introduction,  manufacture,
advertising,  labeling,  packaging,  marketing  and  distribution
of, and record-keeping for, such products.

   Dental  devices of the types sold by  DENTSPLY  are  generally
classified  by the FDA into a category  that renders them subject
only to  general  controls  that  apply to all  medical  devices,
including   regulations   regarding   alteration,    misbranding,
notification,  record-keeping and good  manufacturing  practices.
DENTSPLY's  facilities are subject to periodic  inspection by the
FDA to monitor  DENTSPLY's  compliance  with  these  regulations.
There  can  be  no   assurance   that  the  FDA  will  not  raise
compliance  concerns.  Failure to satisfy  FDA  requirements  can
result in FDA enforcement  actions,  including  product  seizure,
injunction   and/or  criminal  or  civil   proceedings.   In  the
European  Union,  DENTSPLY's  products are subject to the medical
devices  laws of the various  member  states which are based on a
Directive  of  the  European  Commission.   Such  laws  generally
regulate  the safety of the  products in a similar way to the FDA
regulations.  DENTSPLY  products  in  Europe  bear  the  CE  sign
showing that such products adhere to the European regulations.



D1
<PAGE>


   All  dental  amalgam   filling   materials,   including  those
manufactured  and  sold by  DENTSPLY,  contain  mercury.  Various
groups have alleged  that dental  amalgam  containing  mercury is
harmful  to human  health  and have  actively  lobbied  state and
federal   lawmakers   and   regulators  to  pass  laws  or  adopt
regulatory  changes  restricting  the use, or requiring a warning
against alleged  potential risks, of dental  amalgams.  The FDA's
Dental Devices  Classification  Panel, the National Institutes of
Health and the United  States  Public  Health  Service  have each
indicated  that no  direct  hazard  to humans  from  exposure  to
dental  amalgams  has  been  demonstrated.  If the  FDA  were  to
reclassify  dental  mercury  and  amalgam  filling  materials  as
classes of products  requiring  FDA  pre-market  approval,  there
can  be  no  assurance  that  the  required   approval  would  be
obtained  or that the FDA  would  permit  the  continued  sale of
amalgam filling materials pending its  determination.  In Europe,
in  particular  in  Scandinavia  and  Germany,  the  contents  of
mercury  in amalgam  filling  materials  had been the  subject of
public  discussion.  As a consequence,  in 1994 the German health
authorities  asked  suppliers  of dental  amalgam to amend,  as a
precautionary  measure,  the  instructions  for use  for  amalgam
filling  materials.  DENTSPLY  adhered to this request.  DENTSPLY
also   manufactures   and  sells   non-amalgam   dental   filling
materials that do not contain mercury.

   The  introduction  and sale of  dental  products  of the types
produced  by  the  Company   are  also   subject  to   government
regulation  in the various  foreign  countries  in which they are
produced  or sold.  Some of  these  regulatory  requirements  are
more  stringent  than  those  applicable  in the  United  States.
DENTSPLY  believes that it is in substantial  compliance with the
foreign  regulatory  requirements  that  are  applicable  to  its
products and manufacturing operations.

Sources and Supply of Raw Materials

  All  of  the  raw   materials   used  by  the  Company  in  the
manufacture   of  its   products  are   purchased   from  various
suppliers and are  available  from  numerous  sources.  No single
supplier,   except  for  the  supplier  of  precious   metal  raw
materials,  accounts for a  significant  percentage of DENTSPLY's
raw material  requirements.  There are  alternative  suppliers of
precious metal raw materials readily available.

Intellectual Property

   Products  manufactured  by DENTSPLY are sold  primarily  under
its own  trademarks  and  trade  names.  DENTSPLY  also  owns and
maintains  more than 1,000  patents  throughout  the world and is
licensed under a small number of patents owned by others.

   DENTSPLY's  policy is to protect its products  and  technology
through  patents  and  trademark   registrations  in  the  United
States  and  in   significant   international   markets  for  its
products.   The  Company   carefully   monitors   trademark   use
worldwide,   and   promotes   enforcement   of  its  patents  and
trademarks  in a manner  that is  designed to balance the cost of
such  protection  against  obtaining  the greatest  value for the
Company.    DENTSPLY   believes   its   patents   and   trademark
properties   are  important  and   contribute  to  the  Company's
marketing   position   but  it  does  not  consider  its  overall
business to be materially  dependent upon any  individual  patent
or trademark.

Employees

   As of December  31,  2001,  the  Company and its  subsidiaries
employed  approximately  7,500  employees.  A small percentage of
the  Company's   employees  are   represented  by  labor  unions.
Hourly  workers at the  Company's  Ransom & Randolph  facility in
Maumee,   Ohio  are   represented   by  Local   No.   12  of  the
International    Union,   United   Automobile,    Aerospace   and
Agriculture  Implement  Workers  of  America  under a  collective
bargaining  agreement  that expires on January 31,  2004.  Hourly
workers at the  Company's  Midwest  Dental  Products  facility in
Des  Plaines,  Illinois  are  represented  by  Tool & Die  Makers
Local 113 of the  International  Association  of  Machinists  and
Aerospace  Workers under a collective  bargaining  agreement that
expires  on June  1,  2003.  In  addition,  approximately  20% of
Degussa  Dental  Germany's  workforce  is  represented  by  labor
unions.  The  Company  believes  that its  relationship  with its
employees is good.

   The Company's  success is dependent  upon its  management  and
employees.  The  loss  of  senior  management  employees  or  any
failure  to  recruit  and  train  needed  managerial,  sales  and
technical  personnel could have a material  adverse effect on the
Company.

Environmental Matters

   DENTSPLY  believes that its operations  comply in all material
respects  with  applicable  environmental  laws and  regulations.
Maintaining  this  level of  compliance  has not had,  and is not
expected  to have,  a material  effect on the  Company's  capital
expenditures or on its business.


D1
<PAGE>


Item 2.  Properties

      The   following   is  a  list   of   DENTSPLY's   principal
manufacturing locations as of December31, 2001:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         Leased
            Location                       Function                                     or Owned
<S>                              <C>                                                     <C>

 United States:

 Los Angeles, California          Manufacture and distribution of investment              Leased
                                  casting products

 Yucaipa , California,            Manufacture and distribution of dental                  Owned
                                  laboratory products and dental ceramics

 Lakewood, Colorado               Manufacture and distribution of bone grafting           Leased
                                  materials and hydroxylapatite plasma-feed
                                  coating materials

 Milford, Delaware                Manufacture of consumable dental products               Owned

 Des Plaines, Illinois            Manufacture and assembly of dental handpieces           Leased
                                  and components and dental x-ray equipment

 Elgin, Illinois                  Manufacture of dental x-ray film holders, film          Owned
                                  mounts and accessories

 Franklin Park, Illinois          Manufacture and distribution of needles and             Owned
                                  needle-related products, primarily for the dental
                                  profession

 Columbus, Indiana                Manufacture and distribution of orthodontic             Leased
                                  accessories

 Maumee, Ohio                     Manufacture and distribution of investment              Owned
                                  casting products

 York, Pennsylvania               Manufacture and distribution of artificial teeth        Owned
                                  and other dental laboratory products;
                                  corporate headquarters

 York, Pennsylvania               Manufacture of small dental equipment and               Owned
                                  preventive dental products

 Johnson City, Tennessee          Manufacture and distribution of endodontic              Leased
                                  instruments and materials

 Foreign:

 Catanduva, Brazil                Manufacture and distribution of consumable              Leased
                                  dental products

 Petropolis, Brazil               Manufacture and distribution of artificial teeth        Owned
                                  and consumable dental products
</TABLE>



D1
<PAGE>


 <TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        Leased
            Location                       Function                                     or Owned
<S>                              <C>                                                     <C>


 Petropolis, Brazil             Manufacture and distribution of dental                    Owned
                                anesthetics

 Tianjin, China                 Manufacture and distribution of dental products           Leased

 Plymouth, England              Manufacture of dental hand instruments                    Leased

 Bohmte, Germany                Manufacture and distribution of dental                    Owned
                                laboratory products

 Hanau, Germany                 Manufacture and distribution of precious metal            Owned
                                dental alloys, dental ceramics and dental
                                implant products

 Konstanz, Germany              Manufacture and distribution of consumable                Owned
                                dental products

 Mannheim, Germany              Manufacture and distribution of dental                    Owned
                                implant products

 Munich, Germany                Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                Owned
                                instruments and materials

 Rosbach, Germany               Manufacture and distribution of dental ceramics           Owned

 New Delhi, India               Manufacture and distribution of dental products           Leased

 Milan, Italy                   Manufacture and distribution of dental                    Leased
                                x-ray equipment

 Nasu, Japan                    Manufacture and distribution of precious metal            Owned
                                dental alloys, consumable dental products and
                                orthodontic products

 Hoorn, Netherlands             Manufacture and distribution of precious metal            Owned
                                dental alloys and dental ceramics

 Las Piedras, Puerto Rico       Manufacture of crown and bridge materials                 Owned

 Ballaigues, Switzerland        Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                Owned
                                instruments

 Ballaigues, Switzerland        Manufacture and distribution of plastic                   Owned
                                components and packaging material

 Le Creux, Switzerland          Manufacture and distribution of endodontic                Owned
                                instruments
</TABLE>


D1
<PAGE>


   In  addition,  the Company  maintains  sales and  distribution
offices at  certain of its  foreign  and  domestic  manufacturing
facilities,  as  well  as at  various  other  United  States  and
international  locations.  Of the various  sites around the world
that are used  exclusively  for sales and  distribution,  all but
three are leased.  The Company also  maintains  sales  offices in
various countries throughout the world.

   DENTSPLY  believes  that its  properties  and  facilities  are
well  maintained and are generally  suitable and adequate for the
purposes for which they are used.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

   DENTSPLY and its subsidiaries are from time to time parties
to lawsuits arising out of their respective operations.  The
Company believes that pending litigation to which DENTSPLY is a
party will not have a material adverse effect upon its
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In  June  1995,  the  Antitrust  Division  of the  United  States
Department  of  Justice  initiated  an  antitrust   investigation
regarding  the policies and conduct  undertaken  by the Company's
Trubyte  Division with respect to the  distribution of artificial
teeth and  related  products.  On January 5, 1999 the  Department
of Justice  filed a  complaint  against  the  Company in the U.S.
District  Court  in  Wilmington,   Delaware   alleging  that  the
Company's  tooth  distribution  practices  violate the  antitrust
laws and  seeking  an order for the  Company to  discontinue  its
practices.   Three  follow  on  private  class  action  suits  on
behalf  of  dentists,   laboratories   and  denture  patients  in
seventeen  states,  respectively,  who purchased Trubyte teeth or
products  containing  Trubyte teeth,  were filed and  transferred
to the U.S.  District  Court in Wilmington,  Delaware.  The class
action  filed on behalf of the  dentists  has been  dismissed  by
the  plaintiffs.  The  private  party  suits  seek  damages in an
unspecified   amount.  The  Company  filed  motions  for  summary
judgment  in all of the above  cases,  which  were  argued to the
court in December  2000.  The Court denied the  Company's  motion
for  summary   judgment   regarding  the  Department  of  Justice
action,  granted  the  motion  on the  lack  of  standing  of the
patient  class  action  and  granted  the  motion  on the lack of
standing  of  the  laboratory   class  action  to  pursue  damage
claims.  In an  attempt  to  avoid  the  effect  of  the  Court's
ruling,  the  attorneys for the  laboratory  class action filed a
new    complaint    naming    DENTSPLY   and   its   dealers   as
co-conspirators  with respect to DENTSPLY's  distribution policy.
The Company  filed a motion to dismiss this  re-filed  complaint.
The  Court  again  granted  DENTSPLY's  motion  on  the  lack  of
standing  of  the  laboratory   class  action  to  pursue  damage
claims.  The  attorneys  for the patient  class have also filed a
new  action  to avoid  the  effect of the  Court's  ruling.  This
action  is filed in the U.S.  District  Court in  Delaware.  Four
private  party  class  actions on behalf of  indirect  purchasers
were filed in  California  state court.  These cases are based on
allegations  similar  to  those  in  the  Department  of  Justice
case.  In  response  to the  Company's  motion,  these cases have
been  consolidated  in one Judicial  District in Los Angeles.  It
is the  Company's  position  that the conduct and  activities  of
the Trubyte division do not violate the antitrust laws.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   Not applicable.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The following table sets forth certain  information  regarding
the executive officers of the Company as of February 28, 2001.


Name                                Age                  Position

John C. Miles II                    60              Chairman of the Board and
                                                    Chief Executive Officer
Gerald K. Kunkle Jr.                55              President   and   Chief
                                                    Operating Officer
William R. Jellison                 44              Senior  Vice  President
                                                    and Chief Financial Officer
Rudolf Lehner                       44              Senior Vice President
J. Henrik Roos                      44              Senior Vice President
W. William Weston                   54              Senior Vice President
Thomas L. Whiting                   59              Senior Vice President
Brian M. Addison                    48              Vice President, Secretary
                                                    and General Counsel


D1
<PAGE>



   John C.  Miles II was named  Chairman  of the Board  effective
May 20, 1998.  Prior  thereto,  he was Vice Chairman of the Board
since  January 1, 1997. He was named Chief  Executive  Officer of
the Company upon the  resignation  of Burton C. Borgelt from that
position on January 1, 1996.  Prior to that he was  President and
Chief  Operating  Officer and a director of the Company since the
Merger.   Prior  to  that  he  served  as  President   and  Chief
Operating  Officer and a director of Old Dentsply  commencing  in
January 1990.

   Gerald K. Kunkle Jr. was named  President and Chief  Operating
Officer  effective  January 1, 1997.  Prior  thereto,  Mr. Kunkle
served as President of Johnson and Johnson's  Vistakon  Division,
a  manufacturer  and  marketer of contact  lenses,  from  January
1994 and, from early 1992 until  January  1994,  was President of
Johnson  and  Johnson  Orthopaedics,   Inc.,  a  manufacturer  of
orthopaedic  implants,  fracture  management  products and trauma
devices.

   William  R.  Jellison  was named  Senior  Vice  President  and
Chief  Financial  Officer  of the  Company  effective  April  20,
1998.  Prior to that time,  Mr.  Jellison  held the  position  of
Vice  President of Finance,  Treasurer and  Corporate  Controller
for Donnelly  Corporation of Holland,  Michigan since 1994.  From
1991 to 1994,  Mr.  Jellison  was  Donnelly's  Vice  President of
Financial   Operations,   Treasurer  and  Corporate   Controller.
Prior to that,  he served  one year as  Treasurer  and  Corporate
Controller  and  in  other  financial  management  positions  for
Donnelly.  Mr. Jellison is a Certified Management Accountant.

   Rudolf  Lehner  was  named  Senior  Vice  President  effective
December  12, 2001 and oversees the  following  operating  units:
Degussa  Dental  Germany,   DENTSPLY  Austria,  DENTSPLY  Sankin,
Detech,  Elephant  Dental and  Friadent.  Prior to that time,  Mr
Lehner  was Chief  Operating  Officer  of  Degussa  Dental  since
mid-2000.   From   1999  to  mid   2000,   he  had  the   overall
responsibilities  for Sales & Marketing at Degussa  Dental.  From
1994 to 1999,  Mr.  Lehner held the  position of Chief  Executive
Officer of  Elephant  Dental.  From 1990 to 1994,  he had overall
responsibility  for  international  activities at Degussa Dental.
Prior to that,  Mr  Lehner  held  various  positions  at  Degussa
Dental and its parent, Degussa AG, since starting in 1984.

   J.  Henrik  Roos was named  Senior  Vice  President  effective
June  1,  1999  and  oversees  the  following   operating  units:
Ceramco, CeraMed,  DENTSPLY Argentina,  DENTSPLY Brazil, DENTSPLY
Canada,   DENTSPLY  Latin  America,   DENTSPLY  Mexico,  DENTSPLY
Professional,  Ransom  &  Randolph  and  Trubyte.  Prior  to  his
Senior  Vice  President  appointment,  Mr.  Roos  served  as Vice
President and General  Manager of the Company's  Gendex  division
from  June  1995 to June  1999.  Prior  to  that,  he  served  as
President of Gendex  European  operations in  Frankfurt,  Germany
since joining the Company in August 1993.

   W. William  Weston was named Senior Vice  President  effective
January  1, 1996 and  oversees  the  following  operating  units:
DeDent,  DENTSPLY  Asia,  DENTSPLY  Australia,  DENTSPLY  France,
DENTSPLY Italy,  DENTSPLY Russia,  DENTSPLY United Kingdom,  L.D.
Caulk,  and  Middle   East/Africa.   Prior  to  his  Senior  Vice
President  appointment,  Mr. Weston served as the Vice  President
and General  Manager of  DENTSPLY's  DeDent  Operations in Europe
from  October 1, 1990 to  January 1, 1996.  Prior to that time he
was Pharmaceutical Director for Pfizer in Germany.

   Thomas L.  Whiting was named Senior Vice  President  effective
in  early  1995  and  oversees  the  following  operating  units:
DENTSPLY  Anesthetics,  ESP LLC,  GAC,  Gendex,  Maillefer,  MPL,
Rinn,   Tulsa   Dental   Products  and   Vereinigte   Dentalwerke
("VDW").  Prior to his Senior  Vice  President  appointment,  Mr.
Whiting was Vice  President and General  Manager of the Company's
L.D.  Caulk  Division  from  March 1987 to early  1995.  Prior to
that time,  Mr.  Whiting held  management  positions with Deseret
Medical and the Parker-Davis Company.

   Brian  M.  Addison  has been  Vice  President,  Secretary  and
General  Counsel of the Company since  January 1, 1998.  Prior to
that he was  Assistant  Secretary  and  Corporate  Counsel  since
December  1994.  From  August  1994  to  December  1994  he was a
Partner  at the  Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania  law  firm of  McNees,
Wallace  &  Nurick.  Prior  to  that  he was  Senior  Counsel  at
Hershey Foods Corporation.


D1
<PAGE>



                             PART II

Item 5.  Market  for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
Stockholder Matters

   The  information  set forth  under the  caption  "Supplemental
Stock  Information"  in  the  Company's  2001  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   The  information   set  forth  under  the  caption   "Selected
Financial   Data"  in  the   Company's   2001  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

   The  information  set forth  under the  caption  "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" in the Company's  2001 Annual Report to  Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative  and Qualitative  Disclosure About Market
Risk

   The  information  set forth  under the  caption  "Quantitative
and  Qualitative  Disclosure  About Market Risk" in the Company's
2001 Annual  Report to  Shareholders  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The  information  set forth under the  captions  "Management's
Financial  Responsibility," "Report of Independent  Accountants,"
"Consolidated   Statements  of  Income,"   "Consolidated  Balance
Sheets,"  "Consolidated   Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity,"
"Consolidated   Statements   of  Cash   Flows,"   and  "Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements" in the Company's 2001 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated  herein by reference.  The
Report  of  KPMG,  LLP  for  the  Company's   fiscal  year  ended
December 31, 1999 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.

Item  9.  Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

   Previously reported.

                            PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The  information  (i) set forth under the  caption  "Executive
Officers of the  Registrant"  in Part I of this Annual  Report on
Form 10-K and (ii) set  forth  under the  captions  "Election  of
Directors,"   "Section  16(a)  Beneficial   Ownership   Reporting
Compliance"  and "Other  Matters" in the 2002 Proxy  Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

   The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption   "Executive
Compensation"   in  the  2002  Proxy  Statement  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security  Ownership of Certain  Beneficial  Owners and
Management

   The  information   set  forth  under  the  caption   "Security
Ownership of Certain  Beneficial  Owners and  Management"  in the
2002 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   The    information    set   forth   under   the    subcaptions
"Compensation   of   Directors",   "Human   Resources   Committee
Interlocks  and  Insider   Participation"  and  "Human  Resources
Committee  Report on  Executive  Compensation"  in the 2002 Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


D1
<PAGE>



                             PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits,  Financial  Statement  Schedules and Reports
on Form 8-K

(a)   Documents filed as part of this Report

      1    Financial Statements

      The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the
      Company set forth in the  Company's  2001 Annual  Report to
      Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference:

      Report of Independent Accountants
      Consolidated  Statements  of Income - Years ended  December
      31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
      Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2001 and 2000
      Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity - Years
      ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
      Consolidated   Statements  of  Cash  Flows  -  Years  ended
      December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

      2    Financial Statement Schedules

      The following  financial  statement schedule and the Report
      of Independent  Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule
      are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

      Report of Independent  Accountants  on Financial  Statement
      Schedule
      Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

      All  other  schedules  for which  provision  is made in the
      applicable  accounting  regulations  of the  Securities and
      Exchange  Commission are not required to be included herein
      under the related  instructions  or are  inapplicable  and,
      therefore, have been omitted.


D1
<PAGE>



      3    Exhibits.  The  Exhibits  listed  below  are  filed or
incorporated by reference as part of this Annual
           Report on Form 10-K.

         Exhibit
          Number                     Description

           3.1                 Restated Certificate of
                               Incorporation (1)
           3.2                 By-Laws, as amended
           4.1. (a)            Commercial Paper Issuing and
                               paying Agency Agreement
                               dated as of August 12,1999
                               between the Company and the
                               Chase Manhattan Bank (13)
                (b)            Commercial Paper Dealer
                               Agreement dated as of August 12,
                               1999 between the Company and
                               Goldman, Sachs & Co. (13)
           4.2  (a)            Note Agreement (governing Series
                               A, Series B and Series C Notes)
                               dated March 1, 2001 between the
                               Company and Prudential Insurance
                               Company of America (14)
                (b)            First Amendment to Note
                               Agreement dated September 1, 2001
                               between the Company and
                               Prudential Insurance Company of
                               America.
           4.3  (a)            5-Year Competitive Advance,
                               Revolving Credit and Guaranty
                               Agreements dated as of May 25,
                               2001 among the Company, the
                               guarantors named therein, the
                               banks named therein, the ABN
                               Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
                               Agent, and First Union National
                               Bank and Harris Trust and
                               Savings Bank as Documentation
                               Agents as Documentation Agents.
                (b)            364-Day Competitive Advance,
                               Revolving Credit and Guaranty
                               Agreements dated as of May 25,
                               2001 among the Company, the
                               guarantors named therein, the
                               banks named therein, the ABN
                               Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
                               Agent, and First Union National
                               Bank and Harris Trust and
                               Savings Bank as Documentation
                               Agents as Documentation Agents.
           4.4                 Private placement note dated
                               December 28, 2001 between the
                               Company and Massachusetts Mutual
                               Life Insurance Company and
                               Nationwide Life Insurance
                               Company.
           4.5  (a)            Eurobonds Agency Agreement dated
                               December 13, 2001 between the
                               Company and Citibank, N.A.
                (b)            Eurobond  Subscription   Agreement
                               dated  December  11, 2001  between
                               the  Company  and  Credit   Suisse
                               First  Boston  (Europe)   Limited,
                               UBS  AG,   ABN  AMRO  Bank   N.V.,
                               First  Union   Securities,   Inc.;
                               and Tokyo-Mitsubishi International
                               plc (the Managers).
                (c)            Pages 4 through 16 of the
                               Company's Eurobond Offering
                               Circular dated December 11, 2001.
           10.1                1992 Stock Option Plan adopted
                               May 26, 1992 (4)
           10.2                1993 Stock Option Plan (2)
           10.3                1998 Stock Option Plan (1)
           10.4                Nonstatutory Stock Option
                               Agreement between the Company
                               and Burton C. Borgelt (3)
           10.5 (a)            Employee Stock Ownership Plan as
                               amended effective as of December
                               1, 1982 restated as of January
                               1, 1991 (7)
                (b)            Second amendment to the DENTSPLY
                               Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                               (10)
                (c)            Third Amendment to the DENTSPLY
                               Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                               (12)
           10.6 (a)            Trust Agreement for the
                               Company's Employee Stock
                               Ownership Plan between the
                               Company and T. Rowe Price Trust
                               Company dated as of November 1,
                               2000. (14)
                (b)            Plan Recordkeeping Agreement for
                               the Company's Employee Stock
                               Ownership Plan between the
                               Company and T. Rowe Price Trust
                               Company dated as of November 1,
                               2000. (14)


D1
<PAGE>



           10.7 (a)            Employment Agreement dated as of
                               December 31, 1987 between the
                               Company and John C. Miles II (5)*
                (b)            Amendment to Employment
                               Agreement between the Company
                               and John C. Miles II dated
                               February 16, 1996, effective
                               January 1, 1996 (9)*
           10.8                Employment  Agreement  dated as of
                               December   10,  1992  between  the
                               Company and Michael R. Crane (5)*
           10.9                Employment Agreement dated
                               January 1, 1996 between the
                               Company and W. William Weston
                               (9)*
           10.10               Employment Agreement dated
                               January 1, 1996 between the
                               Company and Thomas L. Whiting
                               (9)*
           10.11               Employment Agreement dated
                               October 11,1996 between the
                               Company and Gerald K. Kunkle Jr.
                               (10)*
           10.12               Employment Agreement dated April
                               20, 1998 between the Company and
                               William R. Jellison  (12)*
           10.13               Employment Agreement dated
                               September 10, 1998 between the
                               Company and Brian M. Addison
                               (12)*
           10.14               Employment Agreement dated June
                               1, 1999 between the Company and
                               J. Henrik Roos (13)*
           10.15               Employment Agreement dated
                               October 1, 2001 between the
                               Company and Rudolf Lehner*
           10.16               DENTSPLY International Inc.
                               Directors' Deferred Compensation
                               Plan effective January 1, 1997
                               (10)*
           10.17               Supplemental Executive
                               Retirement Plan effective
                               January 1, 1999 (12)*
           10.18               Written Description of Year 2001
                               Incentive Compensation Plan.
           10.19               Sale and Purchase Agreement for
                               all the shares of Friadent Gmbh,
                               dated December 28, 2000 by and
                               between Neptuno Verwaltungs und
                               Treuhand - Gersellschaft GmbH,
                               Dr. Eberhard Braun and Fria Nu
                               GmbH (a subsidiary of the
                               Company). (14)
           10.20(a)            AZLAD Products Agreement, dated
                               January 18, 2001 between
                               AstraZenaca AB and Maillefer
                               Instruments Holdings, S.A. (a
                               subsidiary of the Company). (14)
                (b)            AZLAD Products Manufacturing
                               Agreement, dated January 18,
                               2001 between AstraZenaca AB and
                               Maillefer Instruments Holdings,
                               S.A. (14)
                (c)            AZ Trade Marks License
                               Agreement, dated January 18,
                               2001 between AstraZenaca AB and
                               Maillefer Instruments Holdings,
                               S.A. (14)
           10.21               Degussa Dental Group Sale and
                               Purchase Agreement, dated May
                               28/29, 2001 between Degussa AG
                               (Seller) and Dentsply Hanau GmbH
                               & Co. KG, Dentsply Research &
                               Development Corporation and
                               Dentsply EU S.a.r.l. (Purchasers
                               and subsidiaries of the
                               Company). (15)
           10.22(a)            Precious metal inventory
                               Purchase and Sale Agreement
                               dated November 30, 2001 between
                               Fleet Precious Metal Inc. and
                               the Company.
                (b)            Precious metal inventory
                               Purchase and Sale Agreement
                               dated December 20, 2001 between
                               JPMorgan Chase Bank and the
                               Company.
                (c)            Precious metal inventory
                               Purchase and Sale Agreement
                               dated December 20, 2001 between
                               Mitsui & Co., Precious Metals
                               Inc. and the Company.
           13                  Pages 9 through 44 of the
                               Company's Annual Report to
                               Shareholders for fiscal year
                               2001 (only those portions of the
                               Annual Report incorporated by
                               reference in this report are
                               deemed "filed")
           21.1                Subsidiaries of the Company
           23.1                Consent of Independent
                               Accountants - PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
           23.2                Consent of Independent Auditors - KPMG LLP
           99.1                Audit Report of KPMG LLP



D1
<PAGE>



 *    Management contract or compensatory plan.

(1)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      333-56093).

(2)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      33-71792).

(3)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      33-79094).

(4)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      33-52616).

(5)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended March 31, 1993, File No. 0-16211.

(6)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1993, File No. 0-16211.

(7)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      December 31, 1994, File No. 0-16211.

(8)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated  January  10,
      1996, File No. 0-16211.

(9)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1995, File No. 0-16211.

(10)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1996, File No. 0-16211.

(11)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1997, File No. 0-16211.

(12)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1998, File No. 0-16211.

(13)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1999, File No. 0-16211.

(14)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 2000, File No. 0-16211.

(15)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  period
      ended June 30, 2001, File No. 0-16211.


D1
<PAGE>




                         Loan Documents

   The  Company  and  certain of its  subsidiaries  have  entered
into  various  loan and  credit  agreements  and  issued  various
promissory  notes and  guaranties  of such notes,  listed  below,
the aggregate  principal  amount of which is less than 10% of its
assets  on a  consolidated  basis.  The  Company  has  not  filed
copies  of  such  documents  but  undertakes  to  provide  copies
thereof   to   the    Securities    and    Exchange    Commission
supplementally upon request.

      (1)  Master Grid Note dated  November  4, 1996  executed in
      favor of The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank in  connection  with a
      line of credit up to  $20,000,000  between  the Company and
      The Chase Manhattan Bank.

      (2)  Agreement  dated  February  26, 1999  between  Midland
      Bank PLC and Dentsply  Limited for GBP 3,000,000  overdraft
      and $2,500,000 foreign exchange facility.

      (3)   Agreement  dated  June  21,  2001  in  the  principal
      amount  of  $6,000,000   between   Dentsply   Research  and
      Development  Corp,  Hong  Kong  Branch  and  Bank of  Tokyo
      Mitsubishi.

      (4)  Form  of   "comfort   letters"   to  various   foreign
      commercial   lending    institutions   having   a   lending
      relationship   with   one  or   more   of   the   Company's
      international subsidiaries.


(b)   Reports on Form 8-K

      On October 17, 2001,  the Company  filed a Form 8-K,  under
      item 2 reporting  that it had acquired  the Degussa  Dental
      Group.  On December 17, 2001,  Amendment 1 to this Form 8-K
      was  filed on Form  8-K/A.  This  amendment  contained  the
      financial information required under this form.

      On November  23,  2001,  the Company  furnished a Form 8-K,
      under item 9. This report  (which is not deemed filed under
      the   Securities    Exchange   Act)   disclosed   financial
      information  related  to  the   recently-acquired   Degussa
      Dental  Group that was provided in a  preliminary  offering
      circular to prospective  purchasers in connection  with the
      marketing of the Company's planned Eurobond Offering.


D1
<PAGE>


              Report of Independent Accountants on
                  Financial Statement Schedule


To the Board of Directors of
DENTSPLY International Inc.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to
in our report dated January 21, 2002, except for Note 16, as to
which the date is January 31, 2002 appearing in the 2001 Annual
Report to Shareholders of DENTSPLY International Inc. (which
report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included
an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item
14(a)(2) of the Form 10-K.  In our opinion, this financial
statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with
the related consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, PA
March 28, 2002



D1
<PAGE>



SCHEDULE II

<TABLE>
DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC.
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
<CAPTION>


                                                   Additions
                                          -----------------------
                                             Charged
                                 Balance at (Credited) Charged to  Write-offs               Balance
                                 Beginning   To Costs     Other      Net of   Translation   at End
Description                     of Period  And Expenses Accounts   Recoveries Adjustment   of Period
                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                              <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>

Allowance for doubtful accounts:

For Year Ended December 31,
                 1999            $ 7,891     $ 1,418      $ 541 (a)  $ (1,294)    $ (404)    $ 8,152
                 2000              8,152         397         34 (b)    (2,078)      (145)      6,360
                 2001              6,360       2,844      5,289 (c)    (1,638)      (253)     12,602

Allowance for trade discounts:

For Year Ended December 31,
                 1999              1,954       2,061          -        (1,538)      (183)      2,294
                 2000              2,294       2,169          -        (1,732)      (102)      2,629
                 2001              2,629         555          -        (1,194)      (124)      1,866

Inventory valuation reserves:

For Year Ended December 31,
                 1999             12,315       2,116      2,679 (d)    (1,209)      (537)     15,364
                 2000             15,364       5,584         52 (e)    (5,741)      (317)     14,942
                 2001             14,942       4,369      8,409 (f)    (2,996)      (365)     24,359

<FN>

(a) Includes $62 from acquisition of Vereinigte Dentalwerke and $479 for the New Image restructuring.
(b) Includes $34 from acquisition of Midwest Orthodontic Manufacturing.
(c) Includes $389 from acquisition of Friadent and $4,900 from acquisition of Degussa Dental.
(d) Includes $2,679 from acquisition of Vereinigte Dentalwerke and Herpo Productos Dentarios.
(e) Includes $52 from acquisition of Midwest Orthodontic Manufacturing.
(f) Includes $1,580 from acquisition of Friadent and $6,829 from acquisition of Degussa Dental.
</FN>
</TABLE>



D1
<PAGE>


                           SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                                   DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC.


                                   By:/s/ John C. Miles II
                                      -----------------------
                                      John C. Miles II
                                      Chairman of the Board
                                      and Chief Executive
Officer

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and
on the dates indicated.


/s/ John C. Miles II                                         March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
John C. Miles II                                                 Date
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer and a Director
(Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.                                     March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Gerald K. Kunkle, Jr.                                            Date
President and Chief
Operating Officer and a Director


/s/ William R. Jellison                                      March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
William R. Jellison                                               Date
Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)


/s/ Dr. Michael C. Alfano                                    March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Dr. Michael C. Alfano                                             Date
Director



/s/ Burton C. Borgelt                                        March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Burton C. Borgelt                                                 Date
Director




D1
<PAGE>


/s/ Douglas K. Chapman                                       March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Douglas K. Chapman                                                Date
Director


/s/ Paula H. Cholmondeley                                    March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Paula H. Cholmondeley                                             Date
Director


/s/ Michael J. Coleman                                       March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Michael J. Coleman                                                Date
Director


/s/ C. Frederick Fetterolf                                   March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
C. Frederick Fetterolf                                            Date
Director


/s/ William F. Hecht                                         March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
William F. Hecht                                                  Date
Director


/s/ Leslie A. Jones                                          March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Leslie A. Jones                                                   Date
Director


/s/ Betty Jane Scheihing                                     March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Betty Jane Scheihing                                              Date
Director


/s/Edgar H. Schollmaier                                      March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
Edgar H. Schollmaier                                              Date
Director


/s/ W. Keith Smith                                           March 28, 2002
-------------------------                                  --------------------
W. Keith Smith                                                    Date
Director


D1
<PAGE>
EXHIBIT INDEX
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                          <C>                                                <C>

         Exhibit                                                                  Exhibit
          Number                     Description                                 Reference

           3.1                 Restated Certificate of
                               Incorporation (1)
           3.2                 By-Laws, as amended                                   D2
           4.1. (a)            Commercial Paper Issuing and
                               paying Agency Agreement
                               dated as of August 12,1999
                               between the Company and the
                               Chase Manhattan Bank (13)
                (b)            Commercial Paper Dealer
                               Agreement dated as of August 12,
                               1999 between the Company and
                               Goldman, Sachs & Co. (13)
           4.2  (a)            Note Agreement (governing Series
                               A, Series B and Series C Notes)
                               dated March 1, 2001 between the
                               Company and Prudential Insurance
                               Company of America (14)
                (b)            First Amendment to Note
                               Agreement dated September 1, 2001
                               between the Company and
                               Prudential Insurance Company of
                               America.                                              D3
           4.3  (a)            5-Year Competitive Advance,
                               Revolving Credit and Guaranty
                               Agreements dated as of May 25,
                               2001 among the Company, the
                               guarantors named therein, the
                               banks named therein, the ABN
                               Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
                               Agent, and First Union National
                               Bank and Harris Trust and
                               Savings Bank as Documentation
                               Agents as Documentation Agents.                       D4
                (b)            364-Day Competitive Advance,
                               Revolving Credit and Guaranty
                               Agreements dated as of May 25,
                               2001 among the Company, the
                               guarantors named therein, the
                               banks named therein, the ABN
                               Amro Bank, N.V as Administrative
                               Agent, and First Union National
                               Bank and Harris Trust and
                               Savings Bank as Documentation
                               Agents as Documentation Agents.                       D5
           4.4                 Private placement note dated
                               December 28, 2001 between the
                               Company and Massachusetts Mutual
                               Life Insurance Company and
                               Nationwide Life Insurance
                               Company.                                              D6
           4.5  (a)            Eurobonds Agency Agreement dated
                               December 13, 2001 between the
                               Company and Citibank, N.A.                            D7
                (b)            Eurobond  Subscription   Agreement
                               dated  December  11, 2001  between
                               the  Company  and  Credit   Suisse
                               First  Boston  (Europe)   Limited,
                               UBS  AG,   ABN  AMRO  Bank   N.V.,
                               First  Union   Securities,   Inc.;
                               and Tokyo-Mitsubishi International
                               plc (the Managers).                                   D8
                (c)            Pages 4 through 16 of the
                               Company's Eurobond Offering
                               Circular dated December 11, 2001.
           10.1                1992 Stock Option Plan adopted.                       D9
                               May 26, 1992 (4)
           10.2                1993 Stock Option Plan (2)
           10.3                1998 Stock Option Plan (1)
           10.4                Nonstatutory Stock Option
                               Agreement between the Company
                               and Burton C. Borgelt (3)
           10.5 (a)            Employee Stock Ownership Plan as
                               amended effective as of December
                               1, 1982 restated as of January
                               1, 1991 (7)
                (b)            Second amendment to the DENTSPLY
                               Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                               (10)
                (c)            Third Amendment to the DENTSPLY
                               Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                               (12)
           10.6 (a)            Trust Agreement for the
                               Company's Employee Stock
                               Ownership Plan between the
                               Company and T. Rowe Price Trust
                               Company dated as of November 1,
                               2000. (14)
                (b)            Plan Recordkeeping Agreement for
                               the Company's Employee Stock
                               Ownership Plan between the
                               Company and T. Rowe Price Trust
                               Company dated as of November 1,
                               2000. (14)



D1
<PAGE>



           10.7 (a)            Employment Agreement dated as of
                               December 31, 1987 between the
                               Company and John C. Miles II (5)*
                (b)            Amendment to Employment
                               Agreement between the Company
                               and John C. Miles II dated
                               February 16, 1996, effective
                               January 1, 1996 (9)*
           10.8                Employment  Agreement  dated as of
                               December   10,  1992  between  the
                               Company and Michael R. Crane (5)*
           10.9                Employment Agreement dated
                               January 1, 1996 between the
                               Company and W. William Weston
                               (9)*
           10.10               Employment Agreement dated
                               January 1, 1996 between the
                               Company and Thomas L. Whiting
                               (9)*
           10.11               Employment Agreement dated
                               October 11,1996 between the
                               Company and Gerald K. Kunkle Jr.
                               (10)*
           10.12               Employment Agreement dated April
                               20, 1998 between the Company and
                               William R. Jellison  (12)*
           10.13               Employment Agreement dated
                               September 10, 1998 between the
                               Company and Brian M. Addison
                               (12)*
           10.14               Employment Agreement dated June
                               1, 1999 between the Company and
                               J. Henrik Roos (13)*
           10.15               Employment Agreement dated
                               October 1, 2001 between the
                               Company and Rudolf Lehner*                            D10
           10.16               DENTSPLY International Inc.
                               Directors' Deferred Compensation
                               Plan effective January 1, 1997
                               (10)*
           10.17               Supplemental Executive
                               Retirement Plan effective
                               January 1, 1999 (12)*
           10.18               Written Description of Year 2001
                               Incentive Compensation Plan.                          D11
           10.19               Sale and Purchase Agreement for
                               all the shares of Friadent Gmbh,
                               dated December 28, 2000 by and
                               between Neptuno Verwaltungs und
                               Treuhand - Gersellschaft GmbH,
                               Dr. Eberhard Braun and Fria Nu
                               GmbH (a subsidiary of the
                               Company). (14)
           10.20(a)            AZLAD Products Agreement, dated
                               January 18, 2001 between
                               AstraZenaca AB and Maillefer
                               Instruments Holdings, S.A. (a
                               subsidiary of the Company). (14)
                (b)            AZLAD Products Manufacturing
                               Agreement, dated January 18,
                               2001 between AstraZenaca AB and
                               Maillefer Instruments Holdings,
                               S.A. (14)
                (c)            AZ Trade Marks License
                               Agreement, dated January 18,
                               2001 between AstraZenaca AB and
                               Maillefer Instruments Holdings,
                               S.A. (14)
           10.21               Degussa Dental Group Sale and
                               Purchase Agreement, dated May
                               28/29, 2001 between Degussa AG
                               (Seller) and Dentsply Hanau GmbH
                               & Co. KG, Dentsply Research &
                               Development Corporation and
                               Dentsply EU S.a.r.l. (Purchasers
                               and subsidiaries of the
                               Company). (15)
           10.22(a)            Precious metal inventory
                               Purchase and Sale Agreement
                               dated November 30, 2001 between
                               Fleet Precious Metal Inc. and
                               the Company.                                          D12
                (b)            Precious metal inventory
                               Purchase and Sale Agreement
                               dated December 20, 2001 between
                               JPMorgan Chase Bank and the
                               Company.                                              D13
                (c)            Precious metal inventory
                               Purchase and Sale Agreement
                               dated December 20, 2001 between
                               Mitsui & Co., Precious Metals
                               Inc. and the Company.                                 D14
           13                  Pages 9 through 44 of the
                               Company's Annual Report to
                               Shareholders for fiscal year
                               2001 (only those portions of the
                               Annual Report incorporated by
                               reference in this report are
                               deemed "filed").                                      D15
           21.1                Subsidiaries of the Company                           D16
           23.1                Consent of Independent
                               Accountants - PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP              D17
           23.2                Consent of Independent Auditors - KPMG LLP            D18
           99.1                Audit Report of KPMG LLP                              D19

</TABLE>



D1
<PAGE>



 *    Management contract or compensatory plan.

(1)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      333-56093).

(2)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      33-71792).

(3)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      33-79094).

(4)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's   Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-8  (No.
      33-52616).

(5)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended March 31, 1993, File No. 0-16211.

(6)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1993, File No. 0-16211.

(7)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      December 31, 1994, File No. 0-16211.

(8)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated  January  10,
      1996, File No. 0-16211.

(9)   Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1995, File No. 0-16211.

(10)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1996, File No. 0-16211.

(11)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1997, File No. 0-16211.

(12)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1998, File No. 0-16211.

(13)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 1999, File No. 0-16211.

(14)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
      ended December 31, 2000, File No. 0-16211.

(15)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  included  in  the
      Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  period
      ended June 30, 2001, File No. 0-16211.
      Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  period
      ended June 30, 2001, File No. 0-16211.


D1

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
