<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>k123104.txt
<DESCRIPTION>HNC 10K DECEMBER 31, 2004
<TEXT>
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   Form 10-K
                                   (Mark One)
     [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004

                                       OR

[ ]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                                  ACT OF 1934

                 For the transition period from _____ to _____

                         Commission File Number 0-18761

                           HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                              Delaware 39-1679918
                (State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer
               incorporation or organization) Identification No.)

                 1010 Railroad Street, Corona, California 92882
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (951) 739 - 6200

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                Name of each exchange
              Title of each class               on which registered
              -------------------               ---------------------
              Not Applicable                    Not Applicable

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                 Title of class
                                 --------------
                    Common Stock, $0.005 par value per share

     Indicate by check mark  whether the  Registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  the  Registrant's   knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes [X] No [ ]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant  was  $317,035,186  computed by  reference to the sale price for such
stock on the NASDAQ Small-Cap Market on February 23, 2005.

     The number of shares of the Registrant's common stock, $0.005 par value per
share (being the only class of common stock of the  Registrant),  outstanding on
February 23, 2005 was 10,935,189 shares.

<PAGE>

                           HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION

                                   FORM 10-K

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS



Item Number                                                     Page Number
-----------                                                     -----------
                                     PART I
                                     ------


1.  Business                                                             3
2.  Properties                                                          15
3.  Legal Proceedings                                                   15
4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                 15

                                    PART II

5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
      Shareholder Matters                                               16
6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data                                17
7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations                               18

7a. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risks         33
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                         33
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
     Accounting and Financial Disclosure                                33
9a. Controls and Procedures                                             33

                                    PART III
                                    --------
10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                  35
11. Executive Compensation                                              38
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management      42
13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                      44
14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services                              45

                                    PART IV
                                    -------

15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K     46

Signatures                                                              47
                                       2
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

     Hansen Natural  Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on April 25, 1990.
Its principal place of business is at 1010 Railroad Street,  Corona,  California
92882 and its  telephone  number is (951)  739-6200.  When this  report uses the
words "Hansen",  "HBC", "the Company",  "we", "us", and "our", these words refer
to Hansen Natural  Corporation and our  subsidiaries  other than Hard e Beverage
Company ("HEB"), unless the context otherwise requires.

     We are a holding company and carry on no operating  business except through
our direct wholly owned subsidiaries,  Hansen Beverage Company ("HBC") which was
incorporated in Delaware on June 8, 1992, and HEB, formerly known as Hard Energy
Company,  and previously known as CVI Ventures,  Inc., which was incorporated in
Delaware on April 30, 1990.  HBC  generates  substantially  all of our operating
revenues.

Corporate History

     In the 1930's,  Hubert Hansen and his three sons started a business to sell
fresh  non-pasteurized  juices  in  Los  Angeles,   California.   This  business
eventually became Hansen's Juices,  Inc., which subsequently became known as The
Fresh Juice  Company of  California,  Inc.  ("FJC").  FJC  retained the right to
market and sell fresh  non-pasteurized  juices  under the Hansen  trademark.  In
1977, Tim Hansen, one of the grandsons of Hubert Hansen,  perceived a demand for
pasteurized  natural  juices and juice  blends that are shelf  stable and formed
Hansen Foods, Inc. ("HFI"). HFI expanded its product line from juices to include
Hansen's(r)  Natural Sodas.  California  Co-Packers  Corporation  (d/b/a/ Hansen
Beverage Company) ("CCC") acquired certain assets of HFI, including the right to
market the  Hansen's(r)  brand name,  in January  1990.  On July 27,  1992,  HBC
acquired the  Hansen's(r)  brand natural soda and apple juice business from CCC.
Under our ownership, the Hansen beverage business has significantly expanded and
includes a wide range of  beverages  within the growing  "alternative"  beverage
category. In September 1999 we acquired all of FJC's rights to manufacture, sell
and  distribute  fresh  non-pasteurized  juice  products  under the  Hansen's(r)
trademark  together with certain  additional  rights.  In 2000, HBC, through its
wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Blue Sky Natural Beverage Co. ("Blue Sky"), which was
incorporated  in Delaware  on  September  8, 2000,  acquired  the  natural  soda
business  previously  conducted by Blue Sky Natural  Beverage  Co., a New Mexico
corporation  ("BSNBC"),  under the Blue Sky(r) trademark.  In 2001, HBC, through
its wholly-owned subsidiary Hansen Junior Juice Company, ("Junior Juice"), which
was incorporated in Delaware on May 7, 2001,  acquired the Junior Juice business
previously  conducted by Pasco Juices,  Inc. ("Pasco") under the Junior Juice(r)
trademark.

Industry Overview

     The alternative  beverage category combines  non-carbonated  ready-to-drink
iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails, single serve juices,  ready-to-drink iced
coffees,  energy drinks,  sports drinks, soy drinks and single-serve still water
(flavored and  unflavored)  with "new age"  beverages,  including sodas that are
considered  natural,   sparkling  juices  and  flavored  sparkling  waters.  The
alternative  beverage  category is the fastest  growing  segment of the beverage
marketplace according to Beverage Marketing  Corporation.  Sales in 2004 for the
alternative beverage category of the market are estimated at approximately $16.3
billion at wholesale, representing a growth rate of approximately 10.7% over the
revised  estimated  wholesale  sales  in 2003 of  approximately  $14.8  billion.
(Source: Beverage Marketing Corporation).

                                       3
<PAGE>

Products

     We develop,  market,  sell and distribute  "alternative"  beverage category
natural sodas, fruit juices, energy drinks and energy sports drinks, fruit juice
and soy smoothies,  "functional  drinks",  sparkling  lemonades and  orangeades,
non-carbonated ready-to-drink iced teas, lemonades, juice cocktails,  children's
multi-vitamin  juice drinks and  non-carbonated  lightly  flavored energy waters
under the  Hansen's(r)  brand name. We also market,  sell and distribute  energy
drinks under the MonsterTM  brand name. In addition,  we market  nutrition  food
bars under the  Hansen's(r)  brand name.  We also market,  sell and  distribute,
natural sodas,  premium natural sodas with  supplements,  organic natural sodas,
seltzer  waters and energy  drinks under the Blue Sky(r)  brand name.  Our fruit
juices for toddlers are marketed under the Junior Juice(r) brand name.

     Natural  Sodas.  Hansen's  natural  sodas have been a leading  natural soda
brand in  Southern  California  for the past 25  years.  In 2004,  according  to
Information Resources, Inc.'s Analyzer Reports for California, our natural sodas
recorded  the  highest  sales  among  comparable  carbonated  new  age  category
beverages  measured by unit volume in the California  market.  Our natural sodas
are available in thirteen regular flavors consisting of mandarin lime, key lime,
grapefruit,  raspberry,  creamy root beer,  vanilla cola,  cherry vanilla creme,
orange mango, kiwi strawberry,  tropical passion,  black cherry,  ginger ale and
tangerine.  In  early  2001,  we  introduced  a new  line  of diet  sodas  using
Splenda(r) sweetener as the primary sweetener. We initially introduced this line
in four flavors:  peach,  black cherry,  tangerine lime, and kiwi strawberry and
have since added two  additional  flavors,  ginger ale and creamy root beer. Our
natural sodas contain no preservatives,  sodium, caffeine or artificial coloring
and are made with high quality  natural  flavors,  citric acid and high fructose
corn syrup or, in the case of diet sodas, with Splenda(r) and  Acesulfame-K.  We
package our natural  sodas in 12-ounce  aluminum  cans. In 2002, we introduced a
line of natural  mixers in 8-ounce  aluminum cans  comprising  club soda,  tonic
water and ginger ale.

     In January 1999, we introduced a premium line of Signature  Sodas in unique
proprietary 14-ounce glass bottles. This line was marketed under the Hansen's(r)
brand name,  primarily through our distributor network, in six flavors. In early
2003 we  repositioned  this line into lower cost  12-ounce  glass  packaging  to
market our  repositioned  Signature Soda line at lower price points  directly to
our retail  customers  such as grocery  chains,  club stores,  specialty  retail
chains and mass  merchandisers  and to the health food sector through  specialty
and health food  distributors  (collectively  referred to as our "direct  retail
customers").  Signature  Soda is  available  in 12-ounce  glass  bottles in five
flavors:  orange  creme,  vanilla  creme,  ginger beer,  sarsaparilla  and black
cherry.

     In September  2000,  we acquired the Blue Sky Natural  Soda  business  from
BSNBC. Our Blue Sky product line comprises natural sodas, premium sodas, organic
natural sodas,  seltzer water,  energy drinks and tea sodas. Blue Sky(r) natural
sodas are  available  in  thirteen  regular  flavors  consisting  of lemon lime,
grapefruit,  cola,  root beer,  raspberry,  cherry vanilla creme,  truly orange,
Jamaican ginger ale, black cherry,  orange creme, Dr. Becker,  grape and private
reserve cream soda. We also offer a Blue Sky(r)  product line, a premium line of
natural sodas which contain supplements such as ginseng.  This line is available
in six flavors  consisting of ginseng  creme,  ginseng cola,  ginseng root beer,
ginseng very berry creme,  ginseng ginger ale, and ginseng  cranberry-raspberry.
During 1999, Blue Sky(r)  introduced a line of organic natural sodas,  which are
available  in six  flavors  consisting  of prime lime cream,  new century  cola,
orange divine,  ginger gale, black cherry cherish, and root beer. We also market
a seltzer water under the Blue Sky(r) label in three flavors:  natural, lime and
lemon.  In 2002, we introduced a lightly  carbonated Blue Sky(r) energy drink in
an 8.3-ounce  slim can. In 2004 we introduced a new line of Blue Sky natural tea
sodas in four flavors  consisting of Imperial  Lime Green Tea,  Peach Mist Green
Tea,  Pomegranate  White Tea and  Raspberry  Red Tea.  The Blue Sky(r)  products
contain no  preservatives,  sodium or caffeine  (other than the energy drink) or
artificial coloring and are made with high quality natural flavors.  Blue Sky(r)
natural  sodas,  seltzer  waters  and tea sodas  are all  packaged  in  12-ounce
aluminum cans and are marketed primarily to our direct retail customers.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     In 2001, we introduced a new line of sparkling lemonades (regular and pink)
and orangeades in unique  proprietary  1-liter glass bottles and towards the end
of 2002, we  introduced  diet  versions of our regular  sparkling  lemonades and
orangeades,   also  in  1-liter  glass  bottles.  The  sparkling  lemonades  and
orangeades  contain  real juice and pulp.  In 2003,  we extended  this line into
unique  proprietary  12-ounce  glass bottles in both regular and diet  versions.
This  product  line is marketed to our direct  retail  customers.  The  contract
packer who produced these products on our behalf underwent a change of ownership
and experienced  production  difficulties  which adversely affected this product
line.  We expect to  reevaluate  this  product line once  production  issues are
resolved.  Additionally,  we are currently  evaluating  alternative packages for
this line.

     Hansen's Energy Drinks. In 1997, we introduced a lightly  carbonated citrus
flavored Hansen's(r) energy drink. Our energy drink competes in the "functional"
beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit in
addition to simply  delivering  refreshment.  We offer our energy drink in three
versions:  original  citrus,  tropical and wild berry. We also offer  additional
functional  drinks  including a ginger  flavored  d-stress(r)  drink,  an orange
flavored  b-well(tm)  drink, a guarana berry flavored  stamina(r) drink, a grape
flavored power drink,  and a berry flavored  "slim-down"  drink that contains no
calories.   Each  of  our  energy  and  functional   drinks  contain   different
combinations   of  vitamins,   minerals,   nutrients,   herbs  and   supplements
("supplements").  Our energy drinks and functional  drinks are sold in 8.3-ounce
cans and bottles.  In 2004 we  commenced  to offer our Hansen's  energy drink in
16-ounce  cans as well. In 2001, we  introduced  Energade(r),  a  non-carbonated
energy sports drink in 23.5-ounce  cans in two flavors,  citrus and orange,  and
subsequently  introduced a third  flavor,  red rocker.  We also  introduced  E2O
Energy  Water(r),  a  non-carbonated  lightly  flavored  water, in 24-ounce blue
polyethylene   terephthalate   ("P.E.T.")  plastic  bottles,  in  four  flavors,
tangerine,  apple, berry and lemon. In 2002, we expanded our E2O Energy Water(r)
line with four additional flavors in clear P.E.T. plastic bottles,  mango melon,
kiwi  strawberry,  grapefruit  and green  tea.  Our  Energade(r)  and E2O Energy
Water(r) drinks also contain  different  combinations and levels of supplements.
At the end of 2002,  we  introduced  a lightly  carbonated  diet energy drink in
8.3-ounce  cans under the  Hansen's(r)  Diet Red brand name. Our Diet Red energy
drink is sweetened  with  Splenda and  Acesulfame-K.  We market our energy,  and
Energade drinks through our full service distributor  network. We market our E2O
Energy Water(r) drinks in blue bottles to our direct retail  customers.  In 2003
we introduced a new carbonated  energy drink under the  Hansen's(r)  Deuce brand
name,  in a  16-ounce  can,  but  with a  different  flavor  than  our  existing
Hansen's(r) Energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans.

     Monster EnergyTM Drinks. In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink
under the Monster  EnergyTM brand name, in 16-ounce cans, which is almost double
the size of our regular energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans and the vast majority of
competitive  energy drinks  currently on the market.  Our Monster EnergyTM drink
contains  different types and levels of supplements than our Hansen's(r)  energy
drinks and is marketed through our full service distributor network. In 2003, we
introduced a low carbohydrate ("Lo-Carb") version of our Monster EnergyTM energy
drink. In 2004 we introduced  4-packs of our Monster Energy(tm) drinks including
our Lo-Carb  version  thereof  and,  towards the end of 2004,  we launched a new
Monster Energy(tm) "Assault" (tm) energy drink in 16-ounce cans.

     Lost(r) Energy Drinks.  In 2004, we launched a new carbonated  energy drink
under the Lost(r) brand name, in 16-ounce  cans. The Lost(r) brand name is owned
by Lost  International LLC and the drinks are produced,  sold and distributed by
us under exclusive license from Lost International LLC.

     Rumba(tm) Energy Juice. In December 2004, we launched a new  non-carbonated
energy  juice under the  Rumba(tm)  brand name in 16 ounce cans.  Rumba(tm) is a
100% juice product that targets male and female morning  beverage  consumers and
is positioned as a substitute for coffee,  caffeinated  sodas and 100% orange or
other juices.

                                       5
<PAGE>

     Juice  Products  and  Smoothies.  Our fruit  juice  product  line  includes
Hansen's(r)  Natural  Old  Fashioned  Apple  Juice which is packaged in 64-ounce
P.E.T. plastic bottles and 128-ounce  polypropylene  bottles and White Grape and
Concord Grape and Pomegranate juice, and Apple Strawberry, Apple Grape and Apple
Cranberry juice blends,  in 64-ounce P.E.T.  plastic bottles.  These Hansen's(r)
juice products contain 100% juice (except Apple Cranberry and Pomegranate  which
contain 27% juice) as well as Vitamin C. Certain of these  products also contain
added calcium.  Hansen's(r)  juice products  compete in the  shelf-stable  juice
category.  In 2002,  we extended our fruit juice and juice blend product line by
introducing certain of these products in 10-ounce P.E.T.  plastic bottles and in
2003 further  extended our fruit juice product line by  introducing a 100% Apple
Juice in aseptic pouches in a 6.75-ounce size.

     In March  1995,  we  introduced  a line of fruit juice  smoothie  drinks in
11.5-ounce aluminum cans. Certain flavors were subsequently offered in glass and
P.E.T.  plastic  bottles.  Hansen's fruit juice  smoothies have a smooth texture
that is thick  but  lighter  than a nectar.  Hansen's  smoothies  in  11.5-ounce
aluminum cans contain approximately 35% juice while the juice levels of Hansen's
smoothies in glass and P.E.T.  plastic bottles is 25%. Our fruit juice smoothies
provide 100% of the recommended daily intake for adults of Vitamins A, C & E and
represented Hansen's entry into what is commonly referred to as the "functional"
beverage  category.  Hansen's(r)  fruit  juice  smoothies  are  available  in 15
flavors:  strawberry  banana,  peach berry,  mango pineapple,  guava strawberry,
pineapple coconut,  apricot nectar, tropical passion,  whipped orange, cranberry
twist, as well as the blast line comprising  Island Blast,  Colada Blast,  Power
Berry Blast, Vita Blast and Banana Blast. In 2004, we repositioned our cranberry
raspberry  lite  smoothie  as part of our new  lo-carb  line of  smoothies.  Our
lo-carb  smoothie line  currently  consists of peach,  mango and  cran-raspberry
flavors in 12-ounce cans.

     In 2001,  we  introduced  a new line of soy  smoothies  in 32- and 11-ounce
aseptic packaging in five flavors: berry splash,  tropical breeze, orange dream,
lemon chiffon and peach passion. The soy smoothies contain soy protein and fruit
juices.  During  2004 we  discontinued  all of our  soy  smoothies  in  32-ounce
asceptic  packaging and four of the five flavors in 11-ounce aseptic  packaging,
leaving Berry Splash.

     Sparkling  Apple Cider. In 2002, we introduced a Sparkling Cider 100% juice
drink in a 1.5-  liter  Magnum  glass  bottle.  However,  due to reports of some
bottles  breaking we  promptly  voluntarily  recalled  the product in the fourth
quarter of 2003. We are pursuing a claim against the third-party bottler for the
costs and losses  incurred by us. We will  reevaluate  relaunching  this product
once certain  production  issues are resolved and a suitable  co-packer has been
identified.

     We market  the above  juice and  smoothie  products  to our  direct  retail
customers.

     Iced  Teas,  Lemonades  and  Juice  Cocktails.  We  introduced  Hansen's(r)
ready-to-drink iced teas and lemonades in 1993. Hansen's(r)  ready-to-drink iced
teas are available in three  flavors:  Original with Lemon,  Tropical  Peach and
Wildberry.  Lemonades  are  available  in one  flavor:  Original  Old  Fashioned
Lemonade.  Hansen's(r) juice cocktails were introduced in 1994 and are available
in three flavors: kiwi strawberry melon, tangerine pineapple with passion fruit,
and  California  paradise  punch.  We  introduced a variety 12 pack of iced teas
during  the  first  half of 2001,  which  experienced  limited  success.  We are
continuing  to  market  this  package.  Hansen's(r)  ready-to-drink  iced  teas,
lemonades  and juice  cocktails  were  packaged  in  16-ounce  wide-mouth  glass
bottles.  At the end of 2002, we converted this line from 16-ounce glass bottles
to 16-ounce polypropylene bottles.

     Hansen's(r)  ready-to-drink  iced  teas are made  with  decaffeinated  tea.
Hansen's(r)  juice  products and smoothies are made with high quality juices and
products  that  contain  less than 100% fruit  juice are also made with  natural
flavors, high fructose corn syrup, citric acid and other ingredients.

     In 1999, we introduced a line of specialty  teas in 20-ounce glass bottles,
which  we named  our  "Gold  Standard"  line.  We  subsequently  introduced  two
additional  green tea  flavors as well as two diet green  flavors  and six juice
cocktails.  We are  discontinuing  certain of the specialty  teas and all of the
juice cocktails but are continuing to market three regular green tea flavors and
the diet peach green tea flavor.  Our Gold Standard  line contains  supplements,
but at lower levels than in our  functional  drinks.  We continue to package our
Gold Standard Line in unique 20-ounce glass bottles.  We discontinued  marketing
green tea and original tea with lemon in 10.14-ounce aseptic packages.

                                       6
<PAGE>

     Juices for Children.  In 1999,  we  introduced  two new lines of children's
multi-vitamin  juice drinks in 8.45-ounce aseptic packages.  Each drink contains
eleven  essential  vitamins  and six  essential  minerals.  Each  line has three
flavors.  We  introduce  new flavors in place of existing  flavors  from time to
time.  One of these two lines is a  dual-branded  100% juice  line named  "Juice
Blast(r)" that was launched in  conjunction  with Costco  Wholesale  Corporation
("Costco") and is sold  nationally  through Costco stores.  The other line was a
10% juice line named  "Hansen's  Natural  Multi-Vitamin  Juice Slam(r)" that was
available to all of our customers.  During 2000, we repositioned  that line as a
100% juice  line under the Juice  Slam(r)  name and are  marketing  that line to
grocery store chain customers, the health food trade, and other customers.  Both
the Juice  Blast(r) and Juice Slam(r)  lines are marketed in 6.75-ounce  aseptic
packages.

     In May 2001, we acquired the Junior Juice(r) beverage business.  The Junior
Juice(r)  product line is comprised of seven flavors of 100% juice in 4.23-ounce
aseptic packages and is targeted at toddlers. Six flavors of the Junior Juice(r)
line have  calcium  added and all  flavors  have  vitamin C added.  The  current
flavors in the Junior Juice(r) line are apple, apple berry,  orange twist, apple
grape, mixed fruit, fruit punch, and white grape.

     Nutrition  Bars. In 2000, we introduced a line of nutrition food bars under
the Hansen's(r)  brand name.  This line is made from grains and fruit.  Sales of
this product line are very limited.

     Hard e. In 2000,  we  introduced a malt-based  drink under the name Hard e,
which contains up to  five-percent  alcohol.  The Hard e product is not marketed
under the Hansen's(r) name. In 2004 we discontinued this line.

     Bottled  Water.  Our still water  products were  introduced in 1993 and are
primarily sold in 0.5-liter plastic bottles to the food service trade.

Other Products

     We  continue to  evaluate  and,  where  considered  appropriate,  introduce
additional  flavors and other types of  beverages  to  complement  our  existing
product lines.  We will also evaluate,  and may, where  considered  appropriate,
introduce  functional   foods/snack  foods  that  utilize  similar  channels  of
distribution  and/or are  complementary to our existing products and/or to which
our brand names are able to add value.

Manufacture and Distribution

     We do not  directly  manufacture  our products  but instead  outsource  the
manufacture to third party bottlers and contract packers.

     We purchase concentrates,  juices, flavors, vitamins, minerals,  nutrients,
herbs,  supplements,  caps,  labels,  trays, boxes and other ingredients for our
beverage  products  which are delivered to our various third party  bottlers and
co-packers.  Depending on the product,  the third party  bottlers or packers add
filtered  water and/or high  fructose corn syrup,  or sucrose,  or cane sugar or
Splenda(r) brand sweetener, Acesulfame-K and/or citric acid or other ingredients
and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the finished  products into
approved containers.  In the case of sodas and other carbonated  beverages,  the
bottler/packer  adds  carbonation  to the  products  as part  of the  production
process.

     We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase of and delivery
to our third  party  bottlers  and  co-packers  of the  containers  in which our
beverage products are packaged.

     The ingredients for our nutrition food bars are purchased by our co-packers
from various suppliers for manufacturing and packaging of the finished bars.

     All of our  beverage  products  are  manufactured  by various  third  party
bottlers and co-packers  situated  throughout the United States and Canada under
separate   arrangements  with  each  of  such  parties.   The  majority  of  our
co-packaging arrangements are on a month-to-month basis. However, certain of our
material co-packing arrangements are described below:

                                       7
<PAGE>

     (a) Our agreement with Southwest Canning and Packaging,  Inc. ("Southwest")
pursuant to which Southwest packages a portion of our Hansen's(r) natural sodas.
This contract continues  indefinitely and is subject to termination upon 60 days
written notice from either party.

     (b) Our agreement with Nor-Cal Beverage Co., Inc.  ("Nor-Cal")  pursuant to
which Nor-Cal  packages a portion of our  Hansen's(r)  juices in P.E.T.  plastic
bottles. This contract continues until 2008 and is renewable annually thereafter
from year-to-year unless terminated by Hansen's not less than 60 days before the
end of the then current term.

     (c) Our agreement with Seven-Up/RC Bottling Company of Southern California,
Inc. ("Seven-Up") pursuant to which Seven-Up packages a portion of our MonsterTM
and Lost(r) brand energy drinks and a portion of our Hansen's(r)  natural sodas.
This contract continues until March 2008 and is renewable  annually  thereafter.
Upon termination prior to such time we are entitled to recover certain equipment
we have purchased and installed at Seven-Up's facility.

     (d)  Our   agreement   with   Southeast   Atlantic   Beverage   Corporation
("Southeast")  pursuant  to which  Southeast  packages a portion of our  Monster
Energy(tm) and Lost(r) brand energy drinks.  This contract  continues until July
2007 and is renewable annually thereafter.

     (e) Our agreement with City Brewing  Company LLC ("City Brew")  pursuant to
which City Brew packages a portion of our Energade  energy sports  drinks.  This
contract  continues until December 2006. Either party is entitled,  at any time,
to  terminate  the  agreement on ninety (90) day's prior  written  notice to the
other party.

     (f) Our agreement with Pri-Pak,  Inc. ("Pri-Pak") pursuant to which Pri-Pak
packages  a  portion  of our  energy  drinks in 8.3 ounce  cans.  This  contract
continues  indefinitely  but may be  terminated  at any time by either  party on
ninety (90) day's prior written notice to the other.

     In many  instances,  equipment  is  purchased  by us and  installed  at the
facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce  certain of our products.
In general, such equipment remains our property and is to be returned to us upon
termination  of the packing  arrangements  with such  co-packers or is amortized
over a pre-determined  number of cases that are to be produced at the facilities
concerned.

     We pack certain  products  outside of the West Coast region to enable us to
produce  products  closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby  reduce
freight costs. As volumes in markets outside of California  grow, we continue to
secure additional packing  arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce
freight costs.

     Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,  particularly
with new  products,  and may be less  precise  during  periods of rapid  growth,
particularly  in new  markets.  If we  materially  underestimate  demand for our
products  or are  unable  to  secure  sufficient  ingredients  or raw  materials
including,  but not limited to, glass,  P.E.T./plastic  bottles,  cans,  labels,
flavors  or   supplement   ingredients   or  certain   sweeteners,   or  packing
arrangements,  we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. The
supplier of sucralose  has notified the Company that our  purchases of sucralose
during  2005  will be  subject  to  volume  limitations  due to the  demand  for
sucralose exceeding their production capacity.  While we believe that we will be
able to secure sufficient quantities of sucralose during 2005 to meet the demand
for our products  that  contain  sucralose,  we are taking steps to  reformulate
those products that contain  sucralose  with  alternative  sweetener  systems to
avoid an interruption in supply of those products.

     Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or are
terminable  upon  request,  we  believe a short  disruption  or delay  would not
significantly  affect our revenues since alternative  packing  facilities in the
United  States with  adequate  capacity  can usually be obtained for many of our
products at commercially reasonable rates and/or, within a reasonably short time
period.  However, there are limited packing facilities in the United States with
adequate  capacity  and/or  suitable  equipment for many of our newer  products,
including Hansen's(r) brand energy drinks and functional drinks in 8.3-ounce and

                                       8
<PAGE>

16-ounce  cans,  Gold  Standard  line,  aseptic  juice  products,   Energade(r),
sparkling  apple  cider  in  1.5-liter  magnum  glass  bottles,  soy  smoothies,
MonsterTM and Lost(r) energy drinks in 16-ounce cans and sparkling lemonades and
orangeade  lines.  There are also  limited  shrink  sleeve  labeling  facilities
available to us in the United States with  adequate  capacity for our E2O Energy
Water(r).  A disruption or delay in  production  of any of such  products  could
significantly  affect our revenues from such products as alternative  co-packing
facilities in the United States with adequate  capacity may not be available for
such  products  either  at  commercially   reasonable  rates,  and/or  within  a
reasonably  short  time  period,  if  at  all.  Consequently,  a  disruption  in
production  of such  products  could  affect our  revenues.  We continue to seek
alternative  and/or  additional  co-packing  facilities  in the United States or
Canada with  adequate  capacity for the  production  of our various  products to
minimize the risk of any disruption in production.

     We have entered  into  distribution  agreements  for  distribution  in most
states of Hansen's(r)  brand energy drinks,  Monster  EnergyTM  drinks,  Lost(r)
energy drinks,  and Energade(r) energy sports drinks.  Distribution  levels vary
from state to state and from  product to product.  Certain of our  products  are
sold in Canada.  We also sell a limited  range of our  products to  distributors
outside of the United States, including Mexico, Japan, Korea, the Caribbean, and
Saudi Arabia.

     We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into
agreements  with regional  bottlers or other direct store delivery  distributors
having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.  Many of our
bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture  and/or distribute
other soda and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products. In many cases,
such products compete directly with our products.

     We continue to take steps to reduce our inventory  levels in an endeavor to
lower our warehouse and distribution costs.

     During 2004, we continued to expand  distribution  of our natural sodas and
smoothies outside of California. We expanded our national sales force to support
and grow sales, primarily of Hansen's(r) energy drinks, Monster EnergyTM drinks,
Lost(r) energy  drinks,  and  Energade(r)  energy sports drinks and we intend to
continue to build such sales force in 2005.

     Our Blue  Sky(r)  products  are sold  primarily  to the health  food trade,
natural food chains and  mainstream  grocery  store  chains,  through  specialty
health food distributors.

     We concluded  exclusive  contracts  with the State of California  ("State")
Department of Health Services,  Women, Infant and Children ("WIC")  Supplemental
Nutrition  Branch ("DHS") to supply 100% apple juice and 100% blended juice,  in
64-ounce P.E.T.  plastic  bottles.  The contracts are each for a period of three
years with a further  one-year  extension  option to be mutually  agreed between
Hansen's  and the State of  California.  We bid the  lowest net cost per unit in
terms  of the  wholesale  price,  less a rebate  to the  State.  Formal  written
agreements  were signed with the State in accordance  with the bid process.  The
contracts  commenced  on July 12,  2004.

     Under the contracts Hansen's is the exclusive supplier for both Apple Juice
and the blended  juice  category,  a new WIC category,  initially  with our 100%
Apple Grape Juice.  The WIC contracts are expected to expand the distribution of
Hansen's  juices,  resulting  in  increased  exposure  for the  Hansen's  brand.
WIC-approved  items are  stocked by the grocery  trade and by  WIC-only  stores.
Products  are  purchased  by WIC  consumers  with  vouchers  given by the DHS to
qualified  participants.  The DHS estimates that Hansen's will be supplying 24.5
million  units per year of 64 oz. apple juice and 5.4 million  units per year of
64 oz. apple grape juice pursuant to these  contracts.  These estimates from the
State,  which we cannot  independently  verify or  confirm,  could  result in an
increase  in net  sales for the  company  of more than $20  million  per  annum.
However,  juices sold pursuant to these  contracts will be at lower margins than
those of the Company's traditional juice business.  Initial volumes suggest that
annual volumes are likely to be slightly lower than the DHS' estimates. However,
during 2005,  Apple  Strawberry  juice will become eligible for redemption under
the WIC contracts.

                                       9
<PAGE>

     Our principal  warehouse  and  distribution  center and  corporate  offices
relocated to our current  facility in October 2000. In January 2004 we leased an
additional warehouse facility in Corona to consolidate additional space that had
been leased by us on short term  leases from time to time to meet our  increased
warehousing  needs due to  increases  in both sales  volumes  and  products  and
terminated  the two short term  leases  concerned.  We continue to take steps to
reduce our  inventory  levels  wherever  possible,  in an  endeavor to lower our
warehouse and distribution costs. See also "ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES."

Raw Materials and Suppliers

     The  principal  raw  materials  used by us comprise  aluminum  cans,  glass
bottles and P.E.T.  plastic bottles as well as juices, high fructose corn syrup,
sucrose and sucralose,  the costs of which are subject to  fluctuations.  Due to
the consolidations that have taken place in the glass industry over the past few
years,  the prices of glass  bottles  continue to increase.  The price of P.E.T.
plastic  bottles and aluminum cans has increased  over the past year.  This will
continue to exert  pressure on our gross margins.  We are uncertain  whether the
prices of those products will continue to rise in the future.

     Generally,  raw  materials  utilized  by us in  our  business  are  readily
available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured
by only one  company.  Sucralose,  which is used  alone or in  combination  with
Acesulfame-K in the Company's  low-calorie  products,  is purchased by us from a
single manufacturer.  Cans for our energy and functional drinks (8.3 ounces) are
only manufactured by one company in the United States.

     With  regard to fruit  juice and  juice-drink  products,  the  industry  is
subject to variability of weather conditions,  which may result in higher prices
and/or lower consumer demand for juices.

     We  purchase   beverage   flavors,   concentrates,   juices,   supplements,
high-fructose corn syrup, cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as
well as other  ingredients  and nutrition food bars from  independent  suppliers
located in the United States and abroad.

     Generally,  flavor suppliers hold the proprietary  rights to their flavors.
Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors
and certain of our concentrates  readily available to us and we may be unable to
obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice.
We have identified alternative suppliers of many of the supplements contained in
many of our beverages.  However,  industry-wide  shortages of certain fruits and
fruit juices,  and supplements and sweeteners have been and could,  from time to
time in the future,  be  experienced,  which could  interfere  with and/or delay
production of certain of our products.

     We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of
our  flavors  and  concentrates  from  other  suppliers  as well as to  conclude
arrangements  with  suppliers  which would enable us to obtain access to certain
concentrates  or  product  formulae  in  certain  circumstances.  We  have  been
partially  successful in these endeavors.  Additionally,  in a limited number of
cases,  contractual  restrictions  and/or  the  necessity  to obtain  regulatory
approvals  and  licenses  may limit our  ability to enter into  agreements  with
alternative suppliers and manufacturers and/or distributors.

     In connection with the development of new products and flavors, independent
suppliers  bear a large portion of the expense of product  development,  thereby
enabling us to develop new products and flavors at relatively  low cost. We have
historically developed and successfully  introduced new products and flavors and
packaging  for our products and intend to continue  developing  and  introducing
additional new beverages and flavors.

                                       10
<PAGE>

Competition

     The  beverage  industry  is  highly  competitive.  The  principal  areas of
competition are pricing, packaging,  development of new products and flavors and
marketing  campaigns.  Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced
by a relatively large number of manufacturers,  most of which have substantially
greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.

     Important  factors  affecting our ability to compete  successfully  include
taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective
development  of new,  unique  cutting edge  products,  attractive  and different
packaging,  branded  product  advertising  and  pricing.  We  also  compete  for
distributors  who will  concentrate  on marketing our products over those of our
competitors,  provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf
space in retail outlets.  Competitive  pressures in the alternative,  energy and
functional  beverage  categories as well as in the nutrition food bar categories
could  cause our  products  to be unable to gain or to lose  market  share or we
could  experience  price erosion,  which could have a material adverse affect on
our business and results.

     Over the past four years we have experienced  substantial  competition from
new entrants in the energy drink category.  A number of companies who market and
distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in larger volume packages,  such as 16-
and 20-ounce glass bottles,  including Sobe, Snapple Elements, Arizona and Fuse,
have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products
as  "functional"  or "energy"  beverages or as having  functional  benefits.  We
believe that many of those  products  contain  lower levels of  supplements  and
principally  deliver  refreshment.  In addition,  many competitive  products are
positioned  differently than our energy or functional  drinks. Our smoothies and
Gold Standard lines are positioned more closely against those products.

     We compete not only for consumer acceptance, but also for maximum marketing
efforts by multi-brand  licensed  bottlers,  brokers and  distributors,  many of
which have a principal  affiliation  with  competing  companies and brands.  Our
products  compete with all liquid  refreshments and with products of much larger
and  substantially  better  financed  competitors,  including  the  products  of
numerous  nationally and  internationally  known producers such as The Coca Cola
Company, PepsiCo, Inc., Cadbury Schwepps, which includes Dr. Pepper/Seven-up, RC
Cola, Snapple,  Mistic and Stewart's brands,  Nestle Beverage Company,  Anheuser
Busch and Ocean  Spray.  More  specifically,  our  products  compete  with other
alternative beverages,  including new age beverages, such as Snapple,  Elements,
Mistic,  Arizona,  Clearly  Canadian,  Sobe,  Stewart's,   Everfresh,  Nantucket
Nectars,  Vitamin Water,  Fuse,  VeryFine,  V8 Splash and Smoothies,  Calistoga,
Propel Fitness Water,  AquaFina,  Dasani, Reebok, and Crystal Geyser brands. Due
to the  rapid  growth  of  the  alternative  beverage  segment  of the  beverage
marketplace,  certain large companies such as The Coca-Cola Company and PepsiCo,
Inc. have introduced products in that market segment which compete directly with
our  products  such as Nestea,  Fruitopia,  Lipton,  Propel,  AquaFina,  Dasani,
Adrenaline Rush, Amp, KMX and Dole. Our products also compete with private label
brands such as those carried by grocery store chains and club stores.

     Our fruit juice smoothies  compete directly with Kern's,  Jumex,  Jugos del
Valle and Libby's  nectars,  V8  Smoothies,  as well as with single  serve juice
products produced by many competitors. Such competitive products are packaged in
glass and P.E.T.  bottles ranging from 8- to 48-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce
aluminum cans. The juice content of such competitive  products ranges from 1% to
100%.

     Our apple and other juice products  compete directly with Tree Top, Mott's,
Martinelli's,  Welch's, Ocean Spray, Tropicana,  Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and
Eve,  Seneca,  Northland  and also with  other  brands of apple  juice and juice
blends, especially store brands.

     Our energy  drinks,  including  Hansen's(r)  energy,  Diet Red,  Hansens(r)
energy Deuce,  Monster  EnergyTM,  Lost(r) Energy and Rumba(tm)  Energy Juice in
8.3- and 16-ounce cans,  compete  directly with Red Bull,  Adrenaline Rush, Amp,
180, KMX,  Venom,  Extreme Energy Shot,  Rockstar,  No Fear,  Full Throttle,  US
energy, Red Devil,  Lipovitan,  MET-Rx, Hype, XTC, and many other brands and our
other functional drinks compete directly with Elix,  Lipovitan,  MET-Rx,  Think,
and other brands.

                                       11
<PAGE>

     Our E2O Energy  Water(r) and still water  products  compete  directly  with
Vitamin Water, Reebok, Propel, Dasani, Aquafina, Fruit2O, Evian, Crystal Geyser,
Naya,  Palomar Mountain,  Sahara,  Arrowhead,  Dannon, and other brands of still
water especially store brands.

     The nutrition food bar category is also highly competitive. Principal areas
of competition are pricing,  packaging,  development of new products and flavors
and marketing campaigns.  Our nutrition food bars compete with products of other
independent bar companies such as Power Bar, Balance Bar, Gatorade, Kashi, Cliff
Bar, MET-Rx, and numerous other bars.

Sales and Marketing

     We focus on consumers  who seek  products  that are perceived to be natural
and  healthy  and  emphasize  the  natural   ingredients   and  the  absence  of
preservatives,  sodium, artificial coloring and caffeine in our beverages (other
than our energy drinks) and the addition to most of our products, of one or more
supplements.  We reinforce this message in our product packaging.  Our marketing
strategy  with  respect  to our  nutrition  food bars is  similarly  to focus on
consumers  who seek  bars that are  perceived  to be  natural  and  healthy.  We
emphasize the natural ingredients and the absence of preservatives.

     Our sales and  marketing  strategy  is to focus our  efforts on  developing
brand  awareness  and trial  through  sampling  both in stores  and at events in
respect of all our beverage and food products.  We use our branded  vehicles and
other  promotional  vehicles at events at which we  distribute  our  products to
consumers for sampling.  We utilize "push-pull" methods to achieve maximum shelf
and display space  exposure in sales outlets and maximum  demand from  consumers
for our  products  including  advertising,  in  store  promotions  and in  store
placement  of  point  of sale  materials  and  racks,  prize  promotions,  price
promotions,  competitions,  endorsements from selected public and extreme sports
figures,  coupons,  sampling and  sponsorship of selected  causes such as breast
cancer  research  and  SPCA's as well as  extreme  sports  teams such as the Pro
Circuit - Kawasaki  Motocross  team,  extreme sports figures and sporting events
such as the  Energy  Pro  Pipeline  Surfing  competition,  marathons,  10k runs,
bicycle  races,  volleyball  tournaments  and other  health and  sports  related
activities,  including extreme sports, particularly supercross,  freestyle motor
cross, surfing, skateboarding, wakeboarding, skiing, snowboarding, BMX, mountain
biking,  snowmobile racing, etc. and also participate in product demonstrations,
food tasting and other related  events.  Posters,  print,  radio and  television
advertising  together with price promotions and coupons are also used to promote
the Hansen's(r) brand.

     Additionally, in 2003 we entered into a multi-year sponsorship agreement to
advertise  on the new Las Vegas  Monorail  ("Monorail  Agreement")  with the Las
Vegas  Monorail  Company  ("LVMC")  which includes the right to vend our Monster
EnergyTM  drinks and natural  sodas on all  stations.  The  initial  term of the
Monorail  Agreement  commenced in July 2004. For technical  reasons the Monorail
did not operate for some months in 2004 but recommenced  carrying  passengers at
the end of December 2004. The initial term of the Monorail Agreement ends on the
first  anniversary of its  commencement  date. Not less than 120 days before the
expiration  of the initial  term and each renewal  term,  as the case may be, we
have the right to renew the Monorail Agreement for a further one year term up to
a maximum of nine  additional  one year  terms and the LVMC has the  right,  not
withstanding  such  election by us, to terminate  the Monorail  Agreement at the
expiration of the then current term.  Due to the  interruption  in operations of
the Monorail,  it is likely that the commencement  date of the initial term will
be extended.

     We  believe  that one of the keys to success in the  beverage  industry  is
differentiation  such as making Hansen's(r)  products visually  distinctive from
other  beverages  on the  shelves  of  retailers.  We review  our  products  and
packaging  on an  ongoing  basis and,  where  practical,  endeavor  to make them
different,  better and unique.  The labels and graphics for many of our products
are   redesigned   from  time  to  time  to  maximize   their   visibility   and
identification,  wherever  they may be placed in stores and we will  continue to
reevaluate the same from time to time.

                                       12
<PAGE>

     Where  appropriate  we  partner  with  retailers  to assist  our  marketing
efforts.  For example,  while we retain  responsibility for the marketing of the
Juice  Slam(r)  line  of  children's  multi-vitamin  juice  drinks,  Costco  has
undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast(r) line.

     We  increased   expenditures  for  our  sales  and  marketing  programs  by
approximately 75% in 2004 compared to 2003. As of December 31, 2004, we employed
217 employees in sales and marketing activities.

Customers

     Our customers are typically retail and specialty chains,  club stores, mass
merchandisers,  convenience  chains,  food  service  and full  service  beverage
distributors  and  health  food  distributors.   In  2004,  sales  to  retailers
represented 35% of our revenues,  sales to full service distributors represented
52% of our revenues, and sales to health food distributors represented 6% of our
revenues.

     Our major  customers  include  Costco,  Trader  Joe's,  Sam's  Club,  Vons,
Ralph's,  Wal-Mart, Safeway and Albertson's. A decision by any major customer to
decrease  amounts  purchased  from the Company or to cease carrying our products
could  have  a  material   negative  effect  on  our  financial   condition  and
consolidated results of operations.

Seasonality

     Sales of ready-to-drink  beverages are somewhat  seasonal,  with the second
and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume
of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather  conditions.  Sales
of  our  beverage   products  may  become   increasingly   subject  to  seasonal
fluctuations as more sales occur outside of California.

Intellectual Property

     We own  numerous  trademarks  that  are  very  important  to our  business.
Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use
and/or their  registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found
to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as
long as the  trademarks are in use. We also own the copyright in and to numerous
statements made and content appearing on the packaging of our products.

     We own the Hansen's(r) trademark. This trademark is crucial to our business
and is  registered  in the U.S.  Patent  and  Trademark  Office  and in  various
countries  throughout the world. We own a number of other trademarks  including,
but not  limited  to, A New  Kind a  Buzz(r),  Unleash  the  Beast(r),  Hansen's
energy(r), Blue Energy(r),  Energade(r),  Hansen's E2O Energy Water(r), Hansen's
slim-down(r), Power Formula(r), THE REAL DEAL(r), LIQUIDFRUIT(r),  Imported from
Nature(r),  California's  Natural Choice(r),  California's  Choice(r),  Medicine
Man(r), Dyna Juice(r),  Equator(r),  Hansen's power(r),  b*well(r),  anti-ox(r),
d-stress(r),   stamina(r),   Aqua  Blast(r),   Antioxjuice(r)   Intellijuice(r),
Defense(r), Immunejuice(r),  Hansen's Natural Multi-Vitamin Juice Slam(r), Juice
Blast(r)  and  Red  Rocker(r)  in the  United  States  and the  Hansen's(r)  and
"Smoothie(r)" trademarks in a number of countries around the world.

     We have applied to register a number of trademarks in the United States and
elsewhere  including,  but  not  limited  to,  Monster  EnergyTM,  M  (stylized)
MonsterTM,  M (stylized) Monster EnergyTM, M (stylized) TM, Assault(tm),  Energy
Pro(tm) and Rumba(tm).

     In September  2000,  in  connection  with the  acquisition  of the Blue Sky
Natural  Beverage  business,  we, through our wholly owned  subsidiary Blue Sky,
acquired the Blue Sky(r) trademark, which is registered in the United States and
Canada.

                                       13
<PAGE>

     In May  2001,  in  connection  with the  acquisition  of the  Junior  Juice
beverage  business,  we,  through  our wholly  owned  subsidiary  Junior  Juice,
acquired  the  Junior  Juice(r)  trademark,  which is  registered  in the United
States.

     On April 4, 2000,  the United States  Patent and Trademark  Office issued a
patent to us for an invention  related to a shelf structure  (rolling rack) and,
more particularly,  a shelf structure for a walk-in cooler. Such shelf structure
is utilized by us to secure  shelf space for and to  merchandise  our energy and
functional  drinks in cans in  refrigerated  Visi coolers and walk-in coolers in
retail stores.

Government Regulation

     The production,  distribution  and sale in the United States of many of our
products is subject to the Federal  Food,  Drug and  Cosmetic  Act;  the Dietary
Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational  Safety and Health
Act; various environmental  statutes; and various other federal, state and local
statutes and  regulations  applicable to the production,  transportation,  sale,
safety, advertising,  labeling and ingredients of such products.  California law
requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component
listed by the State as having been found to cause cancer or birth  defects.  The
law exposes all food and  beverage  producers  to the  possibility  of having to
provide  warnings on their  products  because the law  recognizes  no  generally
applicable  quantitative  thresholds  below  which a  warning  is not  required.
Consequently,  even trace  amounts  of listed  components  can  expose  affected
products  to  the  prospect  of  warning  labels.   Products  containing  listed
substances  that occur  naturally in the product or that are  contributed to the
product solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning
requirement.  While  none of our  beverage  products  are  required  to  display
warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important component of any
of our products might be added to the California list in the future. We also are
unable to predict  whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have
an impact on costs or sales of our products.

     Measures  have been enacted in various  localities  and states that require
that a deposit be charged for certain  non-refillable  beverage containers.  The
precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other deposit, recycling or
product  stewardship  proposals  have been  introduced  in  certain  states  and
localities  and in  Congress,  and we  anticipate  that similar  legislation  or
regulations  may be  proposed  in the  future at the  local,  state and  federal
levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.

     Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local
environmental  laws and  regulations.  Compliance with these  provisions has not
had, and we do not expect such  compliance to have, any material  adverse effect
upon our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.

Employees

     As of December 31, 2004,  we employed a total of 293 employees of which 205
were  employed  on a  full-time  basis.  Of our 293  employees,  we employ 76 in
administrative and operational capacities and 217 persons in sales and marketing
capacities.  We  have  not  experienced  any  work  stoppages,  and we  consider
relations with our employees to be good.

Compliance with Environmental Laws

     In  California,  we are  required  to collect  redemption  values  from our
customers  and to remit  such  redemption  values  to the  State  of  California
Department of Conservation  based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain
carbonated and non-carbonated  products sold. In certain other states and Canada
where  Hansen's(r)  products are sold, we are also required to collect  deposits
from our customers and to remit such deposits to the  respective  state agencies
based  upon  the  number  of  cans  and  bottles  of  certain   carbonated   and
non-carbonated products sold in such states.

                                       14
<PAGE>

Available Information

     Our  Internet  address is  www.hansens.com.  Information  contained  on our
website is not part of this  annual  report on Form 10-K.  Our annual  report on
Form 10-K and  quarterly  reports  on Form 10-Q will be made  available  free of
charge  on  www.hansens.com,   as  soon  as  reasonably   practicable  after  we
electronically  file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition,
you may  request  a copy of these  filings  (excluding  exhibits)  at no cost by
writing or telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:

                            Hansen Beverage Company
                              1010 Railroad Street
                                Corona, CA 92882
                                 (951) 739-6200
                                 (800) HANSENS

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     Our  corporate  offices and main  warehouse  are  located at 1010  Railroad
Street, Corona, California 92882. Our lease for this facility expires in October
2010.  The  area  of  the  facility  is   approximately   113,600  square  feet.
Additionally,  in January 2004 we entered into a lease for additional  warehouse
space in Corona,  California.  The area of this facility is approximately 80,000
square  feet.  This lease will expire at the end of March 2008 with an option to
extend the lease until October 2010. We also rent additional  warehouse space on
a short-term basis from time to time in public  warehouses  situated  throughout
the United States and Canada.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In  September  2004  Barrington  Capital  Corporation  through  an  alleged
successor in interest,  Sandburg Financial  Corporation (both entities with whom
the Company has never had any dealings) served a Notice of Motion  ("Motion") on
the  Company  and  each of its  subsidiaries  as well as on a  number  of  other
unrelated entities and individuals. The Motion seeks to amend a default judgment
granted against a completely unconnected company, Hansen Foods, Inc., to add the
Company  and  its  subsidiary  companies,  as  well as the  other  entities  and
individuals  cited,  as judgment  debtors.  The default  judgment was entered on
February 15, 1996, for $7,626,000 plus legal interest and attorneys' fees in the
sum of  $211,000  arising  out of a breach  of  contract  claim  that  allegedly
occurred  in the 1980's.  Barrington  Capital  Corporation's/Sandburg  Financial
Corporation's claim is based on the misconceived and unsubstantiated theory that
the Company and its  subsidiaries  are alter egos  and/or  successors  of Hansen
Foods,  Inc. The Motion is based on demonstrably  false  allegations,  misstated
legal propositions and lacks any substantial  supporting  evidence.  The Company
and its subsidiaries intend to vigorously oppose the Motion and believe that the
Motion is without any merit.

     Furthermore,  we are subject to litigation  from time to time in the normal
course of  business.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of such
litigation,  based on the facts known to us and after consultation with counsel,
we believe that such litigation  will not have a material  adverse effect on our
financial position or results of operations.

     Except as described above,  there are no material pending legal proceedings
to  which  we or any of our  subsidiaries  is a  party  or to  which  any of our
properties is subject,  other than ordinary and routine litigation incidental to
our business.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The annual meeting of  stockholders  of the Company was held on November 5,
2004. At the meeting, the following individuals were elected as directors of the
Company and received the number of votes set opposite their respective names:

                                       15
<PAGE>

                Director                         Votes For
                --------                         ---------
                Rodney C. Sacks                  9,196,568
                Hilton H. Schlosberg             9,183,521
                Benjamin M. Polk                 9,128,394
                Norman C. Epstein                9,952,134
                Harold C. Taber, Jr.             9,117,996
                Mark S. Vidergauz               10,008,409
                Sydney Selati                   10,006,957


     In addition,  at the meeting our  stockholders  ratified the appointment of
Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent  auditors of the Company for the year ended
December  31,  2004,  by a vote of  10,054,675  for,  22,954  against  and 3,937
abstaining.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET  FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY AND  RELATED  SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS

Principal Market

     The Company's Common Stock began trading in the over-the-counter  market on
November 8, 1990 and is quoted on the NASDAQ  Small-Cap  Market under the symbol
"HANS".  As of February 24, 2005, there were 10,935,189  shares of the Company's
Common Stock outstanding held by approximately 587 holders of record.

Stock Price and Dividend Information

     The following  table sets forth high and low bid closing  quotations of our
Common Stock for the periods indicated:


                                         High                 Low
                                       ---------            --------
Year Ended December 31, 2003
----------------------------
First Quarter                          $  4.50              $  3.17
Second Quarter                         $  4.50              $  3.89
Third Quarter                          $  6.24              $  4.20
Fourth Quarter                         $  9.40              $  5.79

Year Ended December 31, 2004
----------------------------
First Quarter                          $ 14.43              $  7.92
Second Quarter                         $ 27.25              $ 13.51
Third Quarter                          $ 28.48              $ 18.14
Fourth Quarter                         $ 36.41              $ 23.09


     The  quotations  for  the  Common  Stock  set  forth  above  represent  bid
quotations  between  dealers,  do not  include  retail  markups,  mark-downs  or
commissions and bid quotations may not necessarily represent actual transactions
and "real time" sale  prices.  The source of the bid  information  is the NASDAQ
Stock Market, Inc.

                                       16
<PAGE>

     We have not paid dividends to our  stockholders  since our inception and do
not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

     The  following  table sets forth  information  as of December 31, 2004 with
respect  to shares of our  common  stock  that may be  issued  under our  equity
compensation plans.

                                                            Number of securities
                   Number                                   remaining available
               of securities        Weighted-average        for future issuance
                to be issued        exercise price of           under equity
              upon exercise of         outstanding            compensation plans
             outstanding options,    options, warrants     (excluding securities
             warrants and rights       and rights       reflected in column (a))
Plan category      (a)                    (b)                       (c)
---------------------------------  -------------------  ------------------------
Equity
 compensation
 plans
 approved by
 stockholders      1,298,400              $ 6.09                  824,900

Equity
 compensation
 plans not
 approved by
 stockholders         -                      -                       -
            ---------------------  -------------------  ------------------------
Total              1,298,400              $ 6.09                  824,900
            =====================  ===================  ========================

ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

     The consolidated statements of operations data set forth below with respect
to each of the years ended  December 31, 2000 through 2004 and the balance sheet
data  as of  December  31,  for  the  years  indicated,  are  derived  from  our
consolidated  financial statements audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent
auditors,  and should be read in conjunction with those financial statements and
notes thereto,  and with the  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  included as Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

(in thousands,
except per
share
information)       2004         2003         2002         2001         2000
--------------   --------     --------     --------     ---------    ---------
Gross Sales      $226,984     $138,454     $115,490     $99,693      $86,072
Net sales        $180,341     $110,352     $ 92,046     $80,658      $71,706
Net income       $ 20,387     $  5,930     $  3,029     $ 3,019      $ 3,915
Net income
 per common share
  Basic          $   1.91     $   0.58     $   0.30     $  0.30      $  0.39
  Diluted        $   1.73     $   0.55     $   0.29     $  0.29      $  0.38
Total assets     $ 82,022     $ 47,997     $ 40,464     $38,561      $38,958
Long-term debt   $    146     $    358     $  3,606     $ 5,851      $ 9,732

                                       17
<PAGE>

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The  following  discussion  ("MD&A") is provided as a  supplement  to - and
should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  -  our  financial  statements  and  the
accompanying  notes  ("Notes")  included  elsewhere  in  this  Form  10-K.  This
discussion  contains  forward-looking  statements that are based on management's
current   expectations,   estimates  and  projections  about  our  business  and
operations.  Our actual  results  may  differ  materially  from those  currently
anticipated and expressed in such forward-looking statements.

     This overview provides our perspective on the individual  sections of MD&A.
MD&A includes the following sections:

     *    Our  Business  - a  general  description  of our  business;  the value
          drivers of our business; and opportunities and risks;

     *    Results of  Operations  - an analysis of our  consolidated  results of
          operations for the three years presented in our financial statements;

     *    Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources  - an  analysis  of our cash flows,
          sources and uses of cash and contractual obligations;

     *    Application of Critical  Accounting  Policies and  Pronouncements  - a
          discussion of accounting  policies that require critical judgments and
          estimates including newly issued accounting pronouncements;

     *    Sales - details of our sales  measured  on a  quarterly  basis in both
          dollars and cases;

     *    Inflation - information about the impact that inflation may or may not
          have on our results;

     *    Forward  Looking  Statements - cautionary  information  about  forward
          looking   statements   and  a   description   of  certain   risks  and
          uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially
          from the company's  historical results or our current  expectations or
          projections; and

     *    Market Risks - Information about market risks and risk management. See
          "Forward   Looking   Statements"  and  "ITEM  7A.  -  QUALITATIVE  AND
          QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS."

Our Business

        Overview

     We  develop,  market,  sell and  distribute,  in the main,  a wide range of
branded  beverages.  The  majority  of our  beverages  fall  within the  growing
"alternative"  beverage  category.  The  principal  brand  names under which our
beverages are marketed are Hansen's(r),  Monster Energy(tm), Blue Sky(r), Junior
Juice(r),  Lost(r) and  Rumba(tm).  We own all of our  above-listed  brand names
other than  Lost(r)  which we  produce,  market,  sell and  distribute  under an
exclusive licensing arrangement with Lost International LLC.

     Our  company  principally  generates  revenues,  income  and cash  flows by
developing,  producing,  marketing,  selling and distributing  finished beverage
products. We generally sell these products to retailers as well as distributors.

     We incur significant marketing expenditures to support our brands including
advertising costs,  sponsorship fees and special promotional events. We focus on
developing  brand  awareness  and trial  through  sampling both in stores and at
events.  Retailers and distributors receive rebates,  promotions,  point of sale
materials, merchandise displays and coolers. We also use in-store promotions and
in-store placement of point-of-sale materials and racks, prize promotions, price
promotions,  competitions,  and sponsorship of, and endorsements from.  selected
public and  extreme  sports  teams and figures  and  causes.  Consumers  receive
coupons, discounts and promotional incentives. These marketing expenditures help
to enhance  distribution  and  availability of our products as well as awareness
and  increase  consumer  preference  for our brands.  Greater  distribution  and
availability, awareness and preference promotes long term growth.

                                       18
<PAGE>

     During 2004, we continued to expand our existing  product lines and further
develop our  markets.  In  particular,  we continue to focus on  developing  and
marketing  beverages  that fall within the category  generally  described as the
"alternative" beverage category, with particular emphasis on energy type drinks.

     We  believe  that one of the keys to success in the  beverage  industry  is
differentiation;  such as making Hansen's(r)  products visually distinctive from
other  beverages  on the  shelves  of  retailers.  We review  our  products  and
packaging  on an  ongoing  basis and,  where  practical,  endeavor  to make them
different,  better and unique.  The labels and graphics for many of our products
are   redesigned   from  time  to  time  to  maximize   their   visibility   and
identification,  wherever  they may be placed in stores and we will  continue to
reevaluate the same from time to time.

     We again achieved record sales in 2004. The increase in gross and net sales
in 2004 was primarily  attributable to increased sales of our Monster  Energy(r)
drink,  which was  introduced  in April  2002,  including  our low  carbohydrate
("lo-carb")  Monster  Energy(r)  drink which was introduced in 2003 and sales of
Lost(r) energy drinks which were introduced at the beginning of 2004, as well as
increased  sales of apple juice and apple grape juice,  private label  beverages
and our  Energade(r)  energy sports drinks.  The increase in gross and net sales
was partially  offset by decreased sales primarily of energy drinks in 8.3-ounce
cans, children's multi-vitamin juice drinks, and teas, lemonades and cocktails.

     During 2004, sales outside of California  represented 56 % of our aggregate
sales, as compared to  approximately  47 % of our aggregate sales in 2003. Sales
to  distributors  outside the United  States  during 2004 amounted to $2,282,000
compared to $1,612,000 in 2003.

     Our customers are typically retail and specialty chains,  club stores, mass
merchandisers, convenience chains, full service beverage distributors and health
food distributors.  In 2004, sales to retailers represented 35% of our revenues,
sales to full service distributors  represented 52% of our revenues and sales to
health food distributors represented 6 % of our revenues.

     In 2004, we introduced a carbonated  Lost(r) Energy drink in 16-ounce cans,
a carbonated Monster Energy  "Assault"(tm) drink in 16-ounce cans, a new line of
Blue Sky natural tea sodas in 12-ounce cans,  Hansen's Energy Drinks in 16-ounce
cans, Rumba(tm) Energy Juice in 15.5-once cans and also introduced a new line of
lo-carb smoothies in 11.5-ounce cans.

     Sales of our dual-branded 100% juice line named "Juice Blast(r)", which was
launched in conjunction with Costco and is sold through Costco stores, were $2.0
million  in 2004 as  compared  to $6.0  million in 2003,  primarily  due to lost
distribution in certain regions. We have since managed to resecure  distribution
of such juice line in certain of those  regions.  We have, in  conjunction  with
Costco,  introduced  new flavors in place of certain  existing  flavors and will
continue to  introduce  new flavors in an effort to ensure that the variety pack
remains fresh and  different  for consumers and retain and if possible  increase
current distribution levels.

     In  September  2000,  HBC,  through its wholly owned  subsidiary  Blue Sky,
acquired the Blue Sky(r)  Natural Soda  business.  The Blue Sky(r)  Natural Soda
brand is the leading  natural  soda in the health  food  trade.  Blue Sky offers
natural sodas,  premium natural sodas with added ingredients such as Ginseng and
anti-oxidant  vitamins,  organic sodas and seltzer waters in 12-ounce cans and a
Blue Energy  drink in 8.3-ounce  cans and in 2004  introduced a new line of Blue
Sky natural tea sodas in 12-ounce  cans. We plan to introduce a new line of Blue
Sky Lite natural sodas in 2005.

                                       19
<PAGE>

     In May 2001,  HBC,  through  its  wholly  owned  subsidiary  Junior  Juice,
acquired the Junior Juice(r) beverage business. The Junior Juice(r) product line
is comprised of a line of 100% juices packed in 4.23-ounce  aseptic packages and
is targeted at toddlers.

     During 2004, we entered into several new  distribution  agreements  for the
sale of our products both within and outside the United States and substantially
expanded our national sales force and marketing and support staff.  As discussed
under "ITEM 1 BUSINESS - MANUFACTURE  and  DISTRIBUTION",  we anticipate that we
will continue building our national sales force in 2005 as well as our marketing
and support staff to support and grow the sales of our products.

     A chain grocery store strike in Southern California, which commenced during
the last quarter of 2003 and terminated in the first quarter of 2004,  adversely
affected  sales  of  those of our  products  that  were  carried  by the  stores
concerned.  However,  the drop in sales of such products was partially offset by
increased sales of certain of those products that are carried by other retailers
in Southern California.

     In 2002,  we  introduced a Sparkling  Cider 100% juice drink in a 1.5-liter
Magnum glass bottle. However, due to limited reports of some bottles breaking in
2003,  we promptly  recalled the product.  We are pursuing a claim for the costs
and losses  incurred by us. We will  reevaluate  relaunching  this  product once
certain  production  issues  are  resolved  to our  satisfaction  and a suitable
co-packer has been identified.

     During 2004, we concluded exclusive contracts with the State of California,
Department of Health Services Women, Infant and Children Supplemental  Nutrition
Branch,  to supply  100% Apple  juice and 100%  blended  juice in  64-ounce  PET
plastic bottles.  The contracts commenced on July 12, 2004. See "ITEM 1 BUSINESS
- MANUFACTURE and DISTRIBUTION."

     We continue to incur  expenditures  in connection  with the development and
introduction of new products and flavors.

     Value Drivers of our Business

     We  believe  that  the  key  value  drivers  of our  business  include  the
following:

     *    Profitable Growth - We believe natural, better for you brands properly
          supported by marketing and  innovation,  targeted to a broad  consumer
          base-drive  profitable  growth.  We  continue to broaden our family of
          brands.  In  particular,  we are  expanding  and growing our specialty
          beverages and energy drinks to provide more alternatives to consumers.
          We are focused on maintaining or increasing profit margins. We believe
          that  tailored  brand,  package,  price and  channel  strategies  help
          achieve profitable growth. We are implementing these strategies with a
          view to accelerating profitable growth.

     *    Cost Management - The principal focus of cost management will continue
          to be on  supplies  and cost  reduction.  One key area of  focus,  for
          example,  is to  decrease  raw  material  costs,  co-packing  fees and
          general and  administrative  costs as a  percentage  of net  operating
          revenues.  Another  key area of focus is the  reduction  in  inventory
          levels. However, due to the expansion in the number of our products as
          well as  increased  sales  levels in 2004,  overall  inventory  levels
          increased.  Additionally,  the costs of aluminum  cans and PET plastic
          bottles  which  represent  a large  portion of our  ingredient  costs,
          increased in 2004 and could continue to rise during 2005.

     *    Efficient  Capital  Structure - Our capital  structure  is intended to
          optimize our costs of capital. We believe our strong capital position,
          our ability to raise funds at low effective cost and overall low costs
          of borrowing provide a competitive advantage.

                                       20
<PAGE>

     We believe that, subject to increases in the costs of certain raw materials
being contained, these value drivers, when properly implemented,  will result in
(1) maintaining and improving our gross profit margin; (2) providing  additional
leverage  over time through  reduced  expenses as a percentage  of net operating
revenues;  and (3)  optimizing  our cost of  capital.  The  ultimate  measure of
success  is and  will  be  reflected  in  our  current  and  future  results  of
operations.

     Gross and net operating revenues, gross profits,  operating income, and net
income and net income per share  represent key  measurements  of the above value
drivers.  In 2004,  gross operating  revenues  totaled $227.0  million,  a 63.9%
increase over 2003. Net operating  revenues totaled $180.3 million,  an increase
of 63.4% over 2003. Gross profit totaled $83.5 million in 2004, a 90.7% increase
from 2003. Operating income was $33.9 million compared to $9.8 million for 2003.
Net income was $20.4  million as compared to $5.9  million for 2003.  Net income
per share  (diluted)  was $1.73  from  $0.55 per  diluted  share in 2003.  These
measurements will continue to be a key management focus in 2005 and beyond.  See
also "Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to the
Year Ended December 31, 2003."

     In 2004, the Company had working capital of $41.6 million compared to $17.2
million as of December 31,  2003.  In 2004,  our net cash  provided by operating
activities  was  approximately  $20.1  million,  a 265.6%  increase  from  2003.
Principal  uses of cash flows are purchases of inventory,  increases in accounts
receivable and other assets, acquisition of property and equipment and trademark
licenses and trademarks. Repayment of our debt and accounts payable are expected
to be and remain our principal  recurring use of cash and working capital funds.
See also "--LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES. "

     Opportunities, Challenges and Risks

     Looking forward, our management has identified certain challenges and risks
that demand the attention of the beverage industry and our company.  Increase in
consumer and regulatory  awareness of the health  problems  arising from obesity
and inactive lifestyles  represents a challenge.  We recognize that obesity is a
complex and serious public health  problem.  Our commitment to consumers  begins
with our broad  product  line and a wide  selection  of diet,  light and lo-carb
beverages,  juices and juice drinks, sports drinks and waters and energy drinks.
We  continuously  strive  to  meet  changing  consumer  needs  through  beverage
innovation, choice and variety.

     Our historical  success is  attributable,  in part, to our  introduction of
different and innovative  beverages.  Our future  success will depend,  in part,
upon our  continued  ability to develop and introduce  different and  innovative
beverages,  although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. In order
to retain and expand our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce
different and  innovative  beverages and be competitive in the areas of quality,
health,   method  of  distribution,   brand  image  and  intellectual   property
protection.  The beverage industry is subject to changing  consumer  preferences
and shifts in consumer  preferences may adversely affect companies that misjudge
such preferences.

     In addition, other key challenges and risks that could impact our company's
future financial results include, but are not limited to:

     *    maintenance of our brand images and product quality;

     *    profitable  expansion  and  growth  of our  family  of  brands  in the
          competitive  market place (See also Item 1 "BUSINESS - COMPETITION and
          "SALES AND MARKETING");

     *    restrictions  on imports  and  sources of supply;  duties or  tariffs;
          changes in government regulations;

                                       21
<PAGE>

     *    protection  of  our  existing   intellectual   property  portfolio  of
          trademark  licenses and trademarks  and the continuous  pursuit of new
          and innovative trademarks for our expanding product lines; and

     *    limitations  on  available  quantities  of  sucralose,  a  non-caloric
          sweetener that is used in many of our beverage products,  during 2005,
          due to demand for such sweetener  exceeding the supplier's  production
          capacity

     *    the imposition of additional restrictions.

We believe that the following opportunities exist for us:

     *    growth  potential  for  non-alcoholic  beverage  categories  including
          energy drinks, carbonated soft drinks, juices and juice drinks, sports
          drinks and water;

     *    new product  introductions  intended  to  contribute  to higher  gross
          profits;

     *    premium packages intended to generate strong revenue growth;

     *    significant  package,  pricing and channel  opportunities  to maximize
          profitable growth; and

     *    proper positioning to capture industry growth.

                                       22
<PAGE>

Results of Operations
<TABLE>
<S>                                     <C>                 <C>                  <C>                <C>          <C>

                                                                                                       Percentage Change
                                                                                                    -------------------------
                                               2004                 2003                2002         04 vs. 03    03 vs. 02
                                        ------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ------------ ------------
Gross sales                                   $226,984,231         $138,454,345       $115,490,019        63.9%        19.9%
Less:  Discounts, allowances
   and promotional payments                     46,643,096           28,102,149         23,443,657        66.0%        19.9%
                                        ------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ------------ ------------
Net sales                                      180,341,135          110,352,196         92,046,362        63.4%        19.9%
Cost of sales                                   96,874,750           66,577,168         58,802,669        45.5%        13.2%
                                        ------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ------------ ------------
Gross profit                                    83,466,385           43,775,028         33,243,693        90.7%        31.7%
Gross profit margin                                  46.3%                39.7%              36.1%

Selling, general and                            49,507,137           33,887,045         27,896,202        46.1%        21.5%
   administrative expenses
Amortization of trademark
   license and trademarks                           73,046               61,888             54,558        18.0%        13.4%
                                        ------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ------------ ------------
Operating income                                33,886,202            9,826,095          5,292,933       244.9%        85.6%
Operating income as a percent
   of net sales                                      18.8%                 8.9%               5.8%

Net nonoperating (income) expense                  (51,995)              67,013            227,758      (177.6%)      (70.6%)
                                        ------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ------------ ------------
Income before provision for
   income taxes                                 33,938,197            9,759,082          5,065,175       247.8%        92.7%

Provision for income taxes                      13,551,393            3,828,678          2,035,980       253.9%        88.1%
                                        ------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ------------ ------------
Effective tax rate                                   39.9%                39.2%              40.2%

Net income                                    $ 20,386,804          $ 5,930,404        $ 3,029,195       243.8%        95.8%
                                        =================== ==================== ================== ============ ============
Net income as a percent of net
   sales                                             11.3%                 5.4%               3.3%

Net income per common share:
   Basic                                      $       1.91          $      0.58        $      0.30       229.3%        93.3%
   Diluted                                    $       1.73          $      0.55        $      0.29       214.5%        89.7%

</TABLE>

     Results of Operations  for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to the
Year Ended December 31, 2003

     Gross Sales.  For the year ended December 31, 2004, gross sales were $227.0
million, an increase of $88.5 million or 63.9% higher than gross sales of $138.5
million for the year ended  December  31,  2003.  The increase in gross sales is
primarily  attributable to increased  sales of certain of our existing  products
and the introduction of new products as discussed below in "Net Sales."

     Net Sales.  For the year ended  December  31,  2004,  net sales were $180.3
million,  an increase of $70.0  million or 63.4% higher than net sales of $110.4
million for the year ended December 31, 2003. We again achieved  record sales in
2004. The increase in gross and net sales in 2004 was primarily  attributable to
increased sales by volume of our Monster  Energy(r) drink,  which was introduced
in April 2002,  including our low  carbohydrate  ("lo-carb")  Monster  Energy(r)
drink which was  introduced in 2003 and sales by volume of Lost(r) energy drinks
which were  introduced at the  beginning of 2004, as well as increased  sales by
volume of apple juice and apple grape juice,  private  label  beverages  and our
Energade(r)  energy sports drinks.  Additionally,  the increase in gross and net
sales was  attributable to the increased sales prices and reduced  allowances of
smoothies  in cans and natural  sodas.  The  increase in gross and net sales was
partially offset by decreased sales by volume primarily of Hansens energy drinks
in 8.3-ounce cans,  children's  multi-vitamin juice drinks, and teas,  lemonades
and cocktails.

                                       23
<PAGE>

     Gross Profit.  Gross profit was $83.5  million for the year ended  December
31, 2004,  an increase of $39.7  million or 90.7% over the $43.8  million  gross
profit for the year ended December 31, 2003. Gross profit as a percentage of net
sales was 46.3% for the year ended December 31, 2004 which was higher than gross
profit as a  percentage  of net sales of 39.7 % for the year ended  December 31,
2003,  due  primarily to higher gross profit  margins  achieved on the increased
sales of  Monster Energy(r)  and  Lost(r)  energy  drinks.  Although  a  greater
percentage of our sales comprised  products having higher gross margins than the
prior year,  the  increase in profit  margins  was  partially  reduced by higher
promotional payments and allowances to promote our products.

     Total Operating  Expenses.  Total operating expenses were $49.6 million for
the year ended  December  31, 2004,  an increase of $15.6  million or 46.0% over
total operating  expenses of $33.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Total  operating  expenses as a percentage  of net sales  decreased  slightly to
27.5% for the year  ended  December  31,  2004,  from  30.8% for the year  ended
December  31,  2003.  The increase in total  operating  expenses  was  primarily
attributable to increased  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses.  The
decrease in total operating  expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily
attributable  to the  comparatively  lower  increase  in  selling,  general  and
administrative expenses than the increase in net sales.

     Selling,  General and Administrative.  Selling,  general and administrative
expenses were $49.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of
$15.6  million or 46.1% over  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses of
$33.9  million  for the year ended  December  31,  2003.  Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 27.5% for the
year ended  December  31, 2004 from 30.7% for the year ended  December 31, 2003.
Selling  expenses  were $29.2  million for the year ended  December 31, 2004, an
increase of $9.1 million or 45.5% over selling expenses of $20.1 million for the
year ended  December 31,  2003.  Selling  expenses as a percentage  of net sales
decreased to 16.2% for the year ended  December 31, 2004 from 18.2% for the year
ended  December  31,  2003.  The  increase  in selling  expenses  was  primarily
attributable  to increased  distribution  (freight) and storage  expenses  which
increased  by  $4.1  million,   increased  expenditures  for  trade  development
activities and cooperative arrangements with our customers and distributors, and
royalties  which  increased by $2.4  million,  and  increased  expenditures  for
merchandise displays,  point-of-sale materials, and premiums, which increased by
$2.0  million.  General and  administrative  expenses were $20.3 million for the
year ended  December 31, 2004, an increase of $6.5 million or 47.0% over general
and  administrative  expenses of $13.8  million for the year ended  December 31,
2003. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased
to 11.2% for the year  ended  December  31,  2004 from  12.5% for the year ended
December  31,  2003.  The  increase in general and  administrative  expenses was
primarily  attributable  to payroll  expenses  which  increased by $3.3 million,
professional services,  consisting of legal,  consulting and accounting services
primarily   related  to  the   implementation   and  testing   required  by  the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and legal services related to protecting  trademarks
which  increased by $1.5 million,  and travel and  entertainment  expenses which
increased by $622,000.

     Amortization of Trademark License and Trademarks. Amortization of trademark
license and  trademarks  was $73,000 for the year ended  December 31,  2004,  an
increase of $11,000 over  amortization  of trademark  license and  trademarks of
$62,000 for the year ended  December 31, 2003. The increase in  amortization  of
trademark license and trademarks was due to the acquisition of trademarks during
the year ended December 31, 2004.

     Operating  Income.  Operating  income was $33.9  million for the year ended
December  31,  2004,  compared to $9.8  million for the year ended  December 31,
2003. The $24.1 million increase in operating income was primarily  attributable
to increased gross profits,  which was partially  offset by increased  operating
expenses.

                                       24
<PAGE>

     Net Nonoperating  Income/Expense.  Net nonoperating  income was $52,000 for
the year ended  December 31, 2004,  as compared to net  nonoperating  expense of
$67,000 for the year ended  December 31, 2003. Net  nonoperating  income/expense
consists of interest  income and interest and  financing  expense.  Interest and
financing  expense for the year ended  December 31, 2004 was $42,000 as compared
to $73,000 for the year ended  December 31,  2003.  The decrease in interest and
financing expense was primarily attributable to the decrease in outstanding loan
balances and lower interest  rates.  Interest income for the year ended December
31, 2004 was  $94,000,  as  compared  to interest  income of $6,000 for the year
ended  December  31,  2003.  The  increase  in  interest  income  was  primarily
attributable to an increase in the cash investment in interest  bearing accounts
during the year ended December 31, 2004.

     Provision for Income  Taxes.  Provision for income taxes for the year ended
December  31, 2004 was $13.6  million  which was an increase of $9.7  million as
compared to the  provision  for income  taxes of $3.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003.  The  increase in  provision  for income taxes was  primarily
attributable to the increase in operating income. The effective combined federal
and state tax rate for 2004 was 39.9%,  which was higher than the  effective tax
rate of 39.2% for 2003 due to the increase in the statutory  federal  income tax
rate applicable to the Company's pre-tax income.

     Net Income.  Net income was $20.4  million for the year ended  December 31,
2004,  which was an increase of $14.5  million as compared to net income of $5.9
million for the year ended  December  31,  2003.  The increase in net income was
primarily  attributable  to the  $39.7  million  increase  in gross  profit  and
decrease in nonoperating expense and increase in nonoperating income of $119,000
for the year ended  December  31, 2004 which was  partially  offset by increased
operating  expenses of $15.6 million and an increase in the provision for income
taxes of $9.7 million.

     Results of Operations  for the Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to the
Year Ended December 31, 2002

     Gross Sales.  For the year ended December 31, 2003, gross sales were $138.5
million, an increase of $23.0 million or 19.9% higher than gross sales of $115.5
million for the year ended  December  31,  2002.  The increase in gross sales is
primarily  attributable to the  introduction of new products and increased sales
of certain of our existing products as discussed below in "Net Sales."

     Net Sales.  For the year ended  December  31,  2003,  net sales were $110.4
million,  an increase of $18.3  million or 19.9%  higher than net sales of $92.0
million for the year ended  December  31,  2002.  The  increase in net sales was
primarily  attributable  to sales  of our  Monster  EnergyTM  drink,  which  was
introduced in April 2002, as well as increased  sales of Natural  Sodas,  Junior
Juice and, to a lesser extent,  sparkling  beverages.  The increase in net sales
was partially  offset by decreased sales of functional  drinks,  smoothies,  E2O
Energy Water,  Energade(r)  energy sports drinks,  and children's  multi-vitamin
juice drinks as well as an increase in  discounts,  allowances  and  promotional
payments.

     Gross Profit.  Gross profit was $43.8  million for the year ended  December
31, 2003,  an increase of $10.5  million or 31.7% over the $33.2  million  gross
profit for the year ended December 31, 2002. Gross profit as a percentage of net
sales was 39.7% for the year ended  December 31, 2003 which was slightly  higher
than  gross  profit as a  percentage  of net  sales of 36.1% for the year  ended
December 31, 2002.  The increase in gross profit was primarily  attributable  to
increased  net  sales.  Although  a greater  percentage  of our sales  comprised
products having higher gross margins than the prior year, the increase in profit
margins was partially reduced by higher  promotional  payments and allowances to
promote our products.

     Total Operating  Expenses.  Total operating expenses were $33.9 million for
the year ended  December  31,  2003,  an increase of $6.0  million or 21.5% over
total operating  expenses of $28.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
Total  operating  expenses as a percentage  of net sales  slightly  increased to
30.8% for the year  ended  December  31,  2003,  from  30.4% for the year  ended
December  31,  2002.  The increase in total  operating  expenses  was  primarily
attributable to increased  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses.  The
increase in total operating  expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily
attributable  to the  comparatively  larger  increase  in  selling,  general and
administrative expenses than the increase in net sales.

                                       25
<PAGE>

     Selling,  General and Administrative.  Selling,  general and administrative
expenses were $33.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of
$6.0 million or 21.5% over selling, general and administrative expenses of $27.9
million  for  the  year  ended   December   31,  2002.   Selling,   general  and
administrative  expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 30.7% for the
year ended  December 31, 2003,  from 30.3% for the year ended December 31, 2002.
Selling  expenses  were $20.1  million for the year ended  December 31, 2003, an
increase of $4.0 million or 25.1% over selling expenses of $16.1 million for the
year ended  December 31,  2002.  Selling  expenses as a percentage  of net sales
increased to 18.2% for the year ended December 31, 2003, from 17.4% for the year
ended  December  31,  2002.  The  increase  in selling  expenses  was  primarily
attributable to increased  distribution  (freight) and storage  expenses,  trade
development activities including cooperative arrangements with our distributors,
sponsorships and promotions,  in-store  demonstrations and merchandise  displays
which was partially  offset by decreased  expenditures  for graphic  design.  In
addition,  we  incurred  expenses  of  approximately  $267,000  during  2003  in
connection with our sponsorship of the Las Vegas Monorail as part of our efforts
to promote our Monster product line.  General and  administrative  expenses were
$13.8 million for the year ended  December 31, 2003, an increase of $2.0 million
or 16.6% over general and administrative  expenses of $11.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2002. General and administrative  expenses as a percentage of
net sales were 12.5% for the year ended  December  31,  2003 which was  slightly
lower than general and  administrative  expenses as a percentage of net sales of
12.9% for the year  ended  December  31,  2002.  The  increase  in  general  and
administrative  expenses was  primarily  attributable  to an increase in payroll
costs  as we  expanded  our  headcount,  as well  as fees  paid  for  legal  and
accounting services and increased travel and insurance expenses. The decrease in
general and  administrative  expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily
attributable to the increase in net sales and the  comparatively  lower increase
in payroll costs.

     Amortization of Trademark License and Trademarks. Amortization of trademark
license and  trademarks  was $62,000 for the year ended  December 31,  2003,  an
increase of $7,000 from  amortization  of trademark  license and  trademarks  of
$55,000 for the year ended  December 31, 2002. The increase in  amortization  of
trademark license and trademarks was due to the acquisition of trademarks during
the year ended December 31, 2003.

     Operating  Income.  Operating  income was $9.8  million  for the year ended
December  31,  2003,  compared to $5.3  million for the year ended  December 31,
2002. The $4.5 million increase in operating  income was primarily  attributable
to increased gross profits,  which was partially  offset by increased  operating
expenses.

     Net Nonoperating Expense. Net nonoperating expense was $67,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2003, which was $161,000 lower than net nonoperating  expense
of $228,000  for the year ended  December  31, 2002.  Net  nonoperating  expense
consists of interest and  financing  expense and interest  income.  Interest and
financing expense for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $73,000,  as compared
to $231,000 for the year ended  December 31, 2002.  The decrease in interest and
financing  expense was  primarily  attributable  to decreased  interest  expense
incurred on our borrowings  which was primarily  attributable to the decrease in
outstanding loan balances and lower interest rates.  Interest and royalty income
for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $6,000,  as compared to interest income
of $3,000 for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase in interest  income
was primarily  attributable  to an increase in the cash available for investment
during the year ended December 31, 2003.

     Provision for Income  Taxes.  Provision for income taxes for the year ended
December  31, 2003 was $3.8  million  which was an  increase of $1.8  million as
compared to the  provision  for income  taxes of $2.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002.  The  increase in  provision  for income taxes was  primarily
attributable to the increase in operating income. The effective combined federal
and state tax rate for 2003 was 39.2%,  which was lower than the  effective  tax
rate of 40.2% for 2002 due to the  increase  in the  apportionment  of sales and
related state taxes to various states outside of California.

                                       26
<PAGE>

     Net Income.  Net income was $5.9  million for the year ended  December  31,
2003,  which was an increase  of $2.9  million as compared to net income of $3.0
million for the year ended  December  31,  2002.  The increase in net income was
primarily  attributable  to the  $10.5  million  increase  in gross  profit  and
decrease in  nonoperating  expense of $161,000  for the year ended  December 31,
2003 which was partially offset by increased  operating expenses of $6.0 million
and an increase in the provision of income taxes of $1.8 million.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     As of December 31, 2004,  the Company had working  capital of  $41,639,000,
compared to working  capital of  $17,196,000  as of December 31, 2003.

     Net cash provided by operating  activities  for the year ended December 31,
2004 was $20,051,000,  compared to net cash provided by operating  activities of
$5,484,000  during 2003.  The increase in cash provided by operating  activities
was  primarily  attributable  to an increase in net income as well as,  accounts
payable,  income taxes payable,  accrued  compensation  and accrued  liabilities
which was partially  offset by increases in accounts  receivable and inventories
as well as prepaid  expenses.  Purchases of  inventories,  increases in accounts
receivable and other assets, acquisition of property and equipment,  acquisition
of trademark  licenses and  trademarks,  and repayment of our line of credit and
accounts payable are expected to remain our principal  recurring use of cash and
working capital funds.

     Net cash used in investing  activities for the year ended December 31, 2004
was  $1,471,000  as  compared  to net  cash  used in  investment  activities  of
$2,438,000 in 2003.  The decrease in net cash used in investing  activities  was
primarily  attributable  to decreased  purchases of property and equipment and a
decrease  in  expenditures  for  trademarks  which  was  partially  offset by an
increase in deposits  and other assets as well as  decreased  proceeds  from the
sale of property and  equipment.  Management,  from time to time,  considers the
acquisition  of capital  equipment,  particularly,  specific items of production
equipment  required  to produce  certain of our  products,  merchandise  display
racks, vans and promotional  vehicles,  coolers and other promotional  equipment
and businesses  compatible with the image of the  Hansen's(r)  brand, as well as
the introduction of new product lines.

     Net cash  provided by  financing  activities  was  $1,298,000  for the year
ending  December 31, 2004, as compared to net cash used in financing  activities
of $2,486,000 in 2003. The increase in net cash provided by financing activities
as compared to the prior year was primarily  attributable to increased  proceeds
from the issuance of common stock during  2004,  which was  partially  offset by
principal payments of long-term debt.

     HBC has a  credit  facility  from  Comerica  Bank-California  ("Comerica"),
consisting of a revolving line of credit and a term loan. The utilization of the
revolving  line of credit by HBC is dependent  upon  certain  levels of eligible
accounts  receivable  and inventory  from time to time.  Such  revolving line of
credit and term loan are secured by substantially all of HBC's assets, including
accounts  receivable,  inventory,  trademarks,  trademark  licenses  and certain
equipment.  In accordance  with the provisions of the credit  facility,  HBC can
borrow up to 6.0 million under its line of credit.  The revolving line of credit
remains in full force and effect through September 2005.  Interest on borrowings
under  the  line of  credit  is based  on  bank's  base  (prime)  rate,  plus an
additional  percentage  of up to  0.5% or the  LIBOR  rate,  plus an  additional
percentage of up to 2.5%,  depending upon certain  financial  ratios of HBC from
time to time. At December 31, 2004,  HBC had no balances  outstanding  under the
credit facility.

                                       27
<PAGE>

     On March 1, 2005,  the  Company  entered  into an  amendment  of its credit
facility with Comerica in terms of which HBC can borrow up to $7.8 million under
its revolving line of credit. Under the amendment,  the revolving line of credit
remains in full force and effect  through June 1, 2006.  Interest on  borrowings
under  the line of  credit  varies  depending  on a  predetermined  ratio of the
Company's funded senior debt to Earnings Before Interest Taxes  Depreciation and
Amortization.  The  current  rate of  interest is prime minus 1.5% or the 30 day
LIBOR rate plus 1.25%.

     The  terms  of the  Company's  line of  credit  contain  certain  financial
covenants including certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with
its covenants at December 31, 2004

     If any event of default  shall occur for any reason,  whether  voluntary or
involuntary,  Comerica may declare all or any portion outstanding on the line of
credit  immediately due and payable,  exercise rights and remedies  available to
secured parties under the Uniform  Commercial Code,  institute legal proceedings
to foreclose upon the lien and security  interest granted or for the sale of any
or all collateral.

     Purchase  obligations  represent  commitments  made by the  Company and its
subsidiaries  to various  suppliers for raw materials used in the  manufacturing
and packaging of our products. These obligations vary in terms.

     Other  commitments  represent our obligations  under our agreement with the
Las Vegas Monorail Company. See also "ITEM 1 - SALES AND MARKETING."

     The following represents a summary of the Company's contractual obligations
and related scheduled maturities as of December 31, 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                 Long-Term
                                  Debt &
                               Capital Lease       Operating         Purchase            Other
                                Obligations         Leases         Obligations        Commitments          Total
                             ----------------- ---------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------------
<S>                          <C>               <C>              <C>                <C>               <C>

Year ending December 31:
2005                          $       437,366   $      980,473   $      8,332,590    $    1,042,000   $     10,792,429
2006                                  146,486        1,027,242          5,022,648                            6,196,376
2007                                                 1,040,332          4,380,000                            5,420,332
2008                                                   775,683                                                 775,683
2009                                                   685,560                                                 685,560
Thereafter                                             514,170                                                 514,170
                             ----------------- ---------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------------
                              $       583,852   $    5,023,460   $     17,735,238    $    1,042,000   $     24,384,550
                             ================= ================ ================== ================= ==================

</TABLE>

     Management  believes that cash  available from  operations,  including cash
resources and the revolving  line of credit,  will be sufficient for our working
capital needs,  including purchase  commitments for raw materials and inventory,
increases in accounts receivable,  payments of tax liabilities,  debt servicing,
expansion and  development  needs,  purchases of shares of our common stock,  as
well as any purchases of capital assets or equipment through December 31, 2005.

Accounting Policies and Pronouncements

Critical Accounting Policies

     The Company's  consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
with accounting  principals  generally  accepted in the United States of America
("GAAP".)  GAAP  requires the Company to make  estimates  and  assumptions  that
affect the reported amounts in our consolidated  financial  statements including
various  allowances and reserves for accounts  receivable and  inventories,  the
estimated  lives of long-lived  assets and trademarks and trademark  licenses as
well as claims and contingencies arising out of litigation or other transactions
that occur in the normal course of business.  The  following  summarize the most
significant accounting and reporting policies and practices of the Company:

                                       28
<PAGE>

     Trademark  License  and  Trademarks  -  Trademark  license  and  trademarks
     primarily  represent the Company's  exclusive  ownership of the Hansen's(r)
     trademark in connection  with the  manufacture,  sale and  distribution  of
     beverages and water and non-beverage products. The Company also owns in its
     own right, a number of other  trademarks in the United States as well as in
     a number of  countries  around the world.  The  Company  also owns the Blue
     Sky(r)  trademark,  which was  acquired in September  2000,  and the Junior
     Juice(r)  trademark,  which was  acquired  in May 2001.  During  2002,  the
     Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible  Assets.  Under
     the provisions on SFAS No. 142, the Company  discontinued  amortization  on
     indefinite-lived  trademark  licenses and  trademarks  while  continuing to
     amortize remaining trademark licenses and trademarks over one to 25 years.

     In  accordance  with SFAS No. 142, we evaluate  our  trademark  license and
     trademarks  annually for impairment or earlier if there is an indication of
     impairment.   If  there  is  an  indication  of  impairment  of  identified
     intangible  assets not subject to  amortization,  management  compares  the
     estimated fair value with the carrying  amount of the asset.  An impairment
     loss is recognized to write down the intangible  asset to its fair value if
     it is less than the carrying amount. The fair value is calculated using the
     income  approach.  However,  preparation of estimated  expected future cash
     flows is inherently  subjective and is based on management's  best estimate
     of assumptions concerning expected future conditions. Based on management's
     annual  impairment  analysis  performed for the fourth quarter of 2004, the
     estimated  fair values of  trademark  license and  trademarks  exceeded the
     carrying value.

     Long-Lived Assets - Management regularly reviews property and equipment and
     other long-lived assets,  including certain identifiable  intangibles,  for
     possible  impairment.  This review occurs  annually,  or more frequently if
     events or changes in  circumstances  indicate  the  carrying  amount of the
     asset may not be  recoverable.  If there is  indication  of  impairment  of
     property and equipment or amortizable  intangible  assets,  then management
     prepares  an  estimate  of future  cash  flows  (undiscounted  and  without
     interest  charges)  expected  to  result  from the use of the asset and its
     eventual disposition. If these cash flows are less than the carrying amount
     of the asset,  an impairment  loss is recognized to write down the asset to
     its estimated fair value.  The fair value is estimated at the present value
     of  the  future  cash  flows  discounted  at  a  rate   commensurate   with
     management's  estimates of the  business  risks.  During  2004,  management
     recognized  an  impairment to property and equipment as discussed in Note 3
     of the attached financial statements.

     Management  believes that the accounting  estimate related to impairment of
     its long lived assets, including its trademark license and trademarks, is a
     "critical  accounting  estimate"  because:  (1) it is highly susceptible to
     change from period to period because it requires company management to make
     assumptions  about cash flows and discount  rates;  and (2) the impact that
     recognizing  an  impairment  would  have  on  the  assets  reported  on our
     consolidated  balance  sheet,  as well as net  income,  could be  material.
     Management's  assumptions  about  cash  flows and  discount  rates  require
     significant  judgment  because actual revenues and expenses have fluctuated
     in the past and are expected to continue to do so.

     In estimating future revenues,  we use internal  budgets.  Internal budgets
     are developed  based on recent revenue data and future  marketing plans for
     existing  product lines and planned timing of future  introductions  of new
     products and their impact on our future cash flows.

     Revenue  Recognition - The Company  records revenue at the time the related
     products  are  shipped  and the risk of  ownership  and title  has  passed.
     Management  believes an adequate  provision against net sales has been made
     for estimated returns, allowances and cash discounts based on the Company's
     historical experience.

     Advertising  and  Promotional   Allowances  -  The  Company   accounts  for
     advertising  production  costs by expensing such production costs the first
     time the related advertising takes place. In addition, the Company supports
     its customers with promotional  allowances,  a portion of which is utilized
     for marketing and indirect  advertising  by them. In certain  instances,  a
     portion of the  promotional  allowances  payable to customers  based on the
     levels of sales to such customers,  promotion  requirements or expected use
     of the  allowances,  are  estimated by the Company.  If the level of sales,
     promotion  requirements  or use of the  allowances  are different from such
     estimates,  the  promotional  allowances  could,  to the  extent  based  on
     estimates,  require adjustments.  During 2002, the Company adopted Emerging
     Issues Task Force ("EITF") No. 01-9 which requires certain sales promotions
     and  customer  allowances  previously  classified  as selling,  general and
     administrative expenses to be classified as a reduction of sales or as cost
     of goods sold. The Company presents advertising and promotional  allowances
     in accordance with the provisions of EITF No. 01-9.

                                       29
<PAGE>

     Accounts Receivable - The Company evaluates the collectibility of its trade
     accounts  receivable based on a number of factors.  In circumstances  where
     the Company  becomes aware of a specific  customer's  inability to meet its
     financial  obligations to the Company,  a specific reserve for bad debts is
     estimated  and recorded  which  reduces the  recognized  receivable  to the
     estimated  amount the Company  believes will  ultimately  be collected.  In
     addition to specific  customer  identification  of potential bad debts, bad
     debt charges are recorded  based on the Company's  recent past loss history
     and  an  overall   assessment  of  past  due  trade   accounts   receivable
     outstanding.

     Inventories  -  Inventories  are  stated at the  lower of cost to  purchase
     and/or  manufacture the inventory or the current  estimated market value of
     the inventory.  The Company regularly  reviews its inventory  quantities on
     hand and  records a  provision  for excess  and  obsolete  inventory  based
     primarily on the Company's  estimated forecast of product demand and/or its
     ability  to sell the  product(s)  concerned  and  production  requirements.
     Demand for the  Company's  products can  fluctuate  significantly.  Factors
     which could affect demand for the Company's products include  unanticipated
     changes  in  consumer  preferences,  general  market  conditions  or  other
     factors, which may result in cancellations of advance orders or a reduction
     in the rate of reorders placed by customers and/or  continued  weakening of
     economic conditions. Additionally, management's estimates of future product
     demand  may  be  inaccurate,  which  could  result  in  an  understated  or
     overstated provision required for excess and obsolete inventory.

     Income  Taxes - Current  income tax  expense is the amount of income  taxes
     expected to be payable for the current year. A deferred income tax asset or
     liability is established for the expected future  consequences of temporary
     differences  in the  financial  reporting  and  tax  bases  of  assets  and
     liabilities.  The Company  considers  future  taxable  income and  ongoing,
     prudent and feasible tax planning  strategies in assessing the value of its
     deferred tax assets. If the Company  determines that it is more likely than
     not that these  assets will not be  realized,  the Company  will reduce the
     value  of  these  assets  to  their  expected  realizable  value,   thereby
     decreasing net income.  Evaluating the value of these assets is necessarily
     based on the Company's  judgment.  If the Company  subsequently  determined
     that the  deferred  tax  assets,  which  had been  written  down,  would be
     realized  in the  future,  the value of the  deferred  tax assets  would be
     increased,   thereby   increasing  net  income  in  the  period  when  that
     determination  was  made.  See Note 7 in Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
     Statements.

Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements

     Information  regarding newly issued accounting  pronouncements is contained
in Note 1 to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements for the year ended December
31, 2004, which note is incorporated herein by this reference.

Sales

     The table set forth below discloses selected quarterly data regarding sales
for the past five years.  Data from any one or more quarters is not  necessarily
indicative of annual results or continuing trends.

     Sales of beverages are expressed in unit case volume. A "unit case" means a
unit of  measurement  equal to 192 U.S.  fluid  ounces of finished  beverage (24
eight-ounce  servings) or concentrate sold that will yield 192 U.S. fluid ounces
of finished beverage. Unit case volume of the Company means number of unit cases
(or unit case  equivalents)  of  beverages  directly or  indirectly  sold by the
Company. Sales of food bars and cereals are expressed in actual cases. A case of
food bars and cereals is defined as follows:

                                       30
<PAGE>

* A fruit and grain  bar and  functional  nutrition  bar case  equals  ninety
  1.76-ounce bars.
* A natural cereal case equals ten 13-ounce boxes measured by volume.
* An active nutrition bar case equals thirty-two 1.4-ounce bars.

     The Company's  quarterly results of operations reflect seasonal trends that
are primarily  the result of increased  demand in the warmer months of the year.
It has been our experience that beverage sales tend to be lower during the first
and fourth quarters of each fiscal year.  Because the primary  historical market
for Hansen's products is California,  which has a year-long  temperate  climate,
the  effect  of  seasonal  fluctuations  on  quarterly  results  may  have  been
mitigated; however, such fluctuations may be more pronounced as the distribution
of Hansen's  products  expands  outside of  California.  The Company has not had
sufficient   experience  with  many  of  its  newer  product  introductions  and
consequently  has no knowledge of the trends which may occur with such products.
Quarterly  fluctuations  may also be affected  by other  factors  including  the
introduction  of new  products,  the  opening of new markets  where  temperature
fluctuations are more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors,
changes in the mix of the sales of its finished  products and soda  concentrates
and increased advertising and promotional expenses. See also "ITEM 1. BUSINESS -
SEASONALITY."

Unit Case Volume / Case Sales (in Thousands)

                2004         2003         2002         2001         2000
             ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
Quarter 1       5,368        4,219        3,597        3,091        2,451
Quarter 2       7,605        5,356        4,977        4,171        3,323
Quarter 3       8,916        6,221        5,146        4,271        3,157
Quarter 4       7,871        4,625        3,885        3,583        2,859
             ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
Total          29,760       20,421       17,605       15,116       11,790
             =========    =========    =========    =========    =========

Net Revenues (in Thousands)

                2004         2003         2002         2001         2000
             ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
Quarter 1    $ 31,299     $ 22,086     $ 18,592     $ 16,908     $ 14,236
Quarter 2      46,064       28,409       26,265       22,337       20,702
Quarter 3      52,641       33,291       26,985       23,011       20,434
Quarter 4      50,337       26,566       20,204       18,402       16,334
             ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
Total        $180,341     $110,352     $ 92,046     $ 80,658     $ 71,706
             =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
Inflation

     The Company does not believe that inflation had a significant impact on the
Company's results of operations for the periods presented.

Forward Looking Statements

     The Private Security  Litigation  Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a
safe harbor for forward looking  statements made by or on behalf of the Company.
The Company and its  representatives  may from time to time make written or oral
forward looking statements,  including  statements  contained in this report and
other  filings with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  and in reports to
shareholders  and  announcements.  Certain  statements  made in this  report may
constitute forward looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27.A of the
Securities Act 1933, as amended, and Section 21.E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended)  regarding the  expectations  of management with respect to
revenues,  profitability,  adequacy of funds from  operations  and our  existing
credit  facility,  among other things.  All statements  which address  operating
performance,  events or developments that management expects or anticipates will
or may occur in the future including statements related to new products,  volume
growth, revenues,  profitability,  adequacy of funds from operations, and/or the
Company's  existing  credit  facility,  earnings  per share  growth,  statements
expressing  general optimism about future  operating  results and non historical
information, are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Act.

                                       31
<PAGE>

     These  statements  are qualified by their terms and/or  important  factors,
many of which are outside our control, involve a number of risks,  uncertainties
and  other  factors,  that  could  cause  actual  results  and  events to differ
materially  from  the  statements  made  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the
following:

     Company's  ability to  generate  sufficient  cash flows to support  capital
expansion plans and general operating activities;

*    Decreased  demand for our  products  resulting  from  changes  in  consumer
     preferences;
*    Changes in demand that are weather  related,  particularly in areas outside
     of California;
*    Competitive  products and pricing  pressures and the  Company's  ability to
     gain or  maintain  its  share of sales in the  marketplace  as a result  of
     actions by competitors;
*    The introduction of new products;
*    An  inability  to achieve  volume  growth  through  product  and  packaging
     initiatives;
*    Laws and  regulations,  and/or any changes  therein,  including  changes in
     accounting standards,  taxation  requirements  (including tax rate changes,
     new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations) and environmental laws as
     well as the Federal  Food Drug and  Cosmetic  Act,  the Dietary  Supplement
     Health and Education Act, and regulations  made thereunder or in connection
     therewith,  as well as changes in any other food and drug laws,  especially
     those that may affect the way in which the Company's  products are marketed
     and/or labeled and/or sold, including the contents thereof, as well as laws
     and   regulations   or  rules  made  or  enforced  by  the  Food  and  Drug
     Administration and/or the Bureau of Alcohol,  Tobacco and Firearms,  and/or
     Federal Trade Commission, and/or certain state regulatory agencies;
*    Changes in the cost and  availability  of raw  materials and the ability to
     maintain favorable supply arrangements and relationships and procure timely
     and/or adequate production of all or any of the Company's products;
*    The Company's ability to achieve earnings forecasts,  which may be based on
     projected  volumes and sales of many  product  types  and/or new  products,
     certain of which are more profitable than others. There can be no assurance
     that the Company will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales;
*    The Company's ability to penetrate new markets;
*    The marketing  efforts of distributors of the Company's  products,  most of
     which  distribute  products that are  competitive  with the products of the
     Company;
*    Unilateral  decisions by  distributors,  grocery  chains,  specialty  chain
     stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue  carrying all or any
     of the Company's products that they are carrying at any time;
*    The terms and/or  availability  of the  Company's  credit  facility and the
     actions of its creditors;
*    The effectiveness of the Company's  advertising,  marketing and promotional
     programs;
*    Changes in product category consumption;
*    Unforeseen economic and political changes;
*    Possible recalls of the Company's products; and
*    The Company's  ability to make suitable  arrangements for the co-packing of
     any of  its  products  including,  but  not  limited  to,  its  energy  and
     functional  drinks in 8.3-ounce slim cans and 16-ounce  cans,  smoothies in
     11.5-ounce  cans, E2O Energy  Water(r),  Energade(r),  Monster EnergyTM and
     Lost(r) energy drinks, RumbaTM energy juice, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic
     bottles and aseptic  packaging,  soy  smoothies,  sparkling  orangeades and
     lemonades and apple cider in glass bottles and other products.

The foregoing list of important factors is not exhaustive.

                                       32
<PAGE>

     Our actual results could be materially different from the results described
or anticipated by our forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty
of  estimates,  forecasts  and  projections  and may be  better  or  worse  than
anticipated.  Given these uncertainties,  you should not rely on forward-looking
statements.  Forward-looking  statements represent our estimates and assumptions
only as of the date that they  were  made.  We  expressly  disclaim  any duty to
provide updates to forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions
associated with them, after the date of this report, in order to reflect changes
in  circumstances  or  expectations  or the occurrence of  unanticipated  events
except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.

ITEM 7A.        QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

     In the normal  course of  business,  our  financial  position is  routinely
subject to a variety of risks.  The  principal  market risks (i.e.,  the risk of
loss arising from adverse  changes in market rates and prices) which the Company
is exposed to are  fluctuations  in commodity  prices  affecting the cost of raw
materials and changes in interest  rates of the Company's long term debt and the
limited  availability  of certain raw materials  such as sucralose.  We are also
subject to market  risks with  respect to the cost of  commodities  because  our
ability to recover  increased  costs  through  higher  pricing is limited by the
competitive  environment in which we operate. We are also subject to other risks
associated  with the business  environment  in which we operate,  including  the
collectability of accounts receivable.

     At December 31, 2004, the majority of the Company's debt consisted of fixed
rather than  variable  rate debt.  The amount of variable  rate debt  fluctuates
during the year based on the Company's cash  requirements.  If average  interest
rates were to increase one percent for the year ended December 31, 2003, the net
impact on the Company's pre-tax earnings would have been insignificant.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The information required to be furnished in response to this Item 8 follows
the signature page hereto at pages 51 through 69.

     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A.        CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     Evaluation of Disclosure  Controls and  Procedures - Under the  supervision
and with the  participation  of the  Company's  management,  including our Chief
Executive   Officer  and  Chief  Financial   Officer,   we  have  evaluated  the
effectiveness  of the  design  and  operation  of our  disclosure  controls  and
procedures as of the end of the period  covered by this report.  Based upon this
evaluation,  the Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  have
concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are adequate and
effective  to ensure that  material  information  we are required to disclose in
reports  that we file or submit  under the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 is
recorded,  processed,  summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in SEC rules and forms.

     There have been no significant  changes in internal  control over financial
reporting  that occurred  during the fiscal  period  covered by this report that
have materially  affected,  or are reasonably likely to materially  affect,  the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

     Management's  Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting - Company
management is responsible for  establishing  and maintaining  adequate  internal
control over  financial  reporting,  as defined in Exchange Act Rule  13a-15(f).
Under  the  supervision  and  with  the  participation  of  company  management,
including the principal executive officer and principal  financial officer,  the
company  conducted an evaluation of the  effectiveness  of its internal  control
over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control - Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations  of the Treadway
Commission as of December 31, 2004. Based on the company's  evaluation under the
framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework,  management concluded that
the  company's  internal  control over  financial  reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2004.

                                       33
<PAGE>

     Management's  assessment  of the  effectiveness  of internal  control  over
financial  reporting  as of  December  31,  2004 has been  audited by Deloitte &
Touche LLP, an independent  registered  public accounting firm, as stated in its
report, which is included herein.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Hansen Natural Corporation
Corona, California

We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management
Report on  Internal  Control  over  Financial  Reporting,  that  Hansen  Natural
Corporation and  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  maintained  effective  internal
control over  financial  reporting  as of December  31, 2004,  based on criteria
established in Internal Control-Integrated  Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is
responsible for maintaining  effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the  effectiveness  of internal control over financial
reporting.   Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  management's
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted  our audit in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about whether  effective
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in all  material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting,  evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating
the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other  procedures as we considered  necessary in the  circumstances.  We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company's internal control over financial  reporting is a process designed by,
or under the  supervision  of, the company's  principal  executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company's  board of  directors,  management,  and  other  personnel  to  provide
reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting and the
preparation  of financial  statements for external  purposes in accordance  with
generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  A company's  internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the assets of the company;  (2)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use, or  disposition  of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because  of  the  inherent   limitations  of  internal  control  over  financial
reporting,  including  the  possibility  of  collusion  or  improper  management
override of controls,  material  misstatements  due to error or fraud may not be
prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also,  projections of any evaluation of
the  effectiveness  of the internal  control over financial  reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate  because
of changes in conditions,  or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

                                       34
<PAGE>

In our opinion,  management's  assessment that the Company maintained  effective
internal  control over  financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004,  is fairly
stated, in all material respects,  based on the criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material  respects,  effective  internal control over financial  reporting as of
December   31,   2004,   based  on  the   criteria   established   in   Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission.

We have also  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting   Oversight  Board  (United  States),   the  consolidated   financial
statements and financial  statement  schedule listed in Item 15(b) as of and for
the years ended  December  31, 2004 and 2003 of the Company and our report dated
March 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified  opinion on those  financial  statements
and financial statement schedule.


DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Costa Mesa, California
March 14, 2005


PART III

ITEM 10.        DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Directors of the Company are elected  annually by the holders of the common
stock and executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors,  to
serve until the next annual meeting of  stockholders  or the Board of Directors,
as the case may be, or until their  successors are elected and qualified.  It is
anticipated that the next annual meeting of stockholders will be held in October
or November, 2005.

The members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers are as follows:

Name                          Age                       Position
------------------------    -------     ----------------------------------------
Rodney C. Sacks(1)            55        Chairman of the Board of Directors and
                                        Chief Executive Officer

Hilton H. Schlosberg(1)       52        Vice Chairman of the Board of
                                        Directors, Chief Financial Officer,
                                        Chief Operating Officer and
                                        Secretary

Benjamin M. Polk              53        Director

Norman C. Epstein(2),(3),(4)  64        Director

Sydney Selati(2)              66        Director

Harold C. Taber, Jr.(2),(4)   65        Director

Mark S. Vidergauz(3)          51        Director

Mark Hall                     49        Senior Vice President,
                                        Single-Serve Products, HBC

Michael B. Schott             56        Vice President, National Sales,
                                        Single-Serve Products, HBC

Kirk Blower                   54        Senior Vice President, Juice and
                                        Non-Carbonated Products, HBC

Thomas J. Kelly               50        Vice President - Finance and
                                        Secretary, HBC

1  Member of the Executive Committee of the  Board of Directors
2  Member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
3  Member of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
4  Member of the Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors

                                       35
<PAGE>

     Rodney C. Sacks - Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company,  Chief
Executive Officer and director of the Company from November 1990 to the present.
Member of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company since
October 1992. Chairman and a director of HBC from June 1992 to the present.

     Hilton H.  Schlosberg  - Vice  Chairman  of the Board of  Directors  of the
Company,  President,  Chief Operating Officer,  Secretary, and a director of the
Company from  November  1990 to the present and Chief  Financial  Officer of the
Company  since  July 1996.  Member of the  Executive  Committee  of the Board of
Directors of the Company  since  October 1992.  Vice  Chairman,  Secretary and a
director of HBC from July 1992 to the present.

     Benjamin  M. Polk -  Director  of the  Company  from  November  1990 to the
present.  Assistant  Secretary  of HBC since  October 1992 and a director of HBC
since July 1992.  Partner  with  Schulte  Roth & Zabel LLP(1) since May 2004 and
previously  a partner with Winston & Strawn LLP where.  Mr. Polk  practiced  law
with that firm and its predecessors, from August 1976 to May 2004.

     Norman C. Epstein - Director of the Company and member of the  Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company since June 1992 and member of
the  Nominating  Committee  of the  Board  of  Directors  of the  Company  since
September  2004.  Member and  Chairman  of the Audit  Committee  of the Board of
Directors of the Company since September 1997.  Director of HBC since July 1992.
Director of Integrated Asset Management  Limited, a company listed on the London
Stock Exchange since June 1998.  Managing  Director of Cheval  Property  Finance
PLC, a mortgage  finance  company based in London,  England.  Partner with Moore
Stephens,  an international  accounting firm, from 1974 to December 1996 (senior
partner beginning 1989 and the managing partner of Moore Stephens, New York from
1993 until 1995).

     Sydney  Selati - Director of the Company and member of the Audit  Committee
of the Board of Directors  since  September 2004. Mr. Selati has been a director
of Barbeques  Galore Ltd. since July 1997 and Chairman of the Board of Directors
of Galore USA since May 1988.  Mr.  Selati was president of Sussex Group Limited
from 1984 to 1988.

     Harold C. Taber,  Jr. - Director of the Company since July 1992.  Member of
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors since April 2000 and member of the
Nominating  Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company  since  September
2004.  President and Chief Executive Officer of HBC from July 1992 to June 1997.
Consultant  for The Joseph Company from October 1997 to March 1999 and for Costa
Macaroni  Manufacturing  Company  from July 2000 to January  2002.  Director  of
Mentoring at Biola University from July 2002 to present.

     Mark S. Vidergauz - Director of the Company and member of the  Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors  of the Company  since June 1998.  Member of
the Audit  Committee of the Board of Directors from April 2000 through May 2004.
Managing  Director and Chief Executive Officer of Sage Group LLC from April 2000
to present.  Managing  director at the Los Angeles  office of ING Barings LLC, a
diversified financial service institution  headquartered in the Netherlands from
April 1995 to April 2000.

     Mark Hall - Senior Vice  President,  Single-Serve  Products,  joined HBC in
1997. Prior to joining HBC, Mr. Hall spent three years with Arizona Beverages as
Vice President of Sales where he was responsible  for sales and  distribution of
Arizona products through a national network of beer  distributors and soft drink
bottlers.

     Michael Schott - Vice  President,  National Sales,  Single-Serve  Products,
joined HBC in 2002. Prior to joining HBC, Mr. Schott held a number of management
positions in the beverage industry including  president of Snapple Beverage Co.,
SOBE Beverage Co. and Everfresh Beverages,  respectively. Mr. Schott has over 30
years of experience in sales and marketing, primarily with beverage companies in
key executive and operational roles.

     Kirk Blower - Senior Vice President,  Juice and Non-Carbonated Products, of
HBC  since  1992.  Mr.  Blower  has  over 30 years of  experience  in sales  and
marketing, primarily with the Coca-Cola organization.

     Thomas J. Kelly - Vice President - Finance and Secretary of HBC since 1992.
Prior to joining HBC, Mr. Kelly served as controller  for  California  Copackers
Corporation.  Mr. Kelly is a Certified  Public  Accountant and has worked in the
beverage business for over 20 years.

(1)  Mr. Polk and his law firm,  Schulte  Roth & Zabel LLP,  serve as counsel to
     the Company.
                                       36
<PAGE>

Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert

     The  Company  has  a  separately   designated   standing  Audit   Committee
established in accordance  with Section  3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The members of the Audit Committee
are Messrs.  Epstein  (Chairman),  Taber and Selati.  The Board of Directors has
determined  that Mr. Epstein is (1) an "audit  committee  financial  expert," as
that term is defined in Item 401(h) of  Regulation  S-K of the Exchange Act, and
(2)  independent  as  defined by the  listing  standards  of Nasdaq and  Section
10A(m)(3) of the Exchange Act.

Nominating Committee

     The Board of Directors of the Company established a Nominating Committee in
September  2004  consisting  of Norman C.  Epstein  and  Harold C. Taber Jr. and
adopted a  Nominating  Committee  Charter  which is  available on our website at
www.hansens.com.

Code of Ethics

     We have  adopted  a Code  of  Ethics  that  applies  to all our  directors,
officers (including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer
and controller) and employees.  The Code of Ethics and any amendment to the Code
of Ethics, as well as any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules
of the SEC or Nasdaq may be obtained at no cost to you by writing or telephoning
us at the following address or telephone number:

                            Hansen Beverage Company
                              1010 Railroad Street
                                Corona, CA 92882
                                 (951) 739-6200
                                 (800) HANSENS


Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

     Section  16(a) of the Exchange Act requires  the  Company's  directors  and
executive  officers,  and persons who own more than ten percent of a  registered
class of the Company's equity securities, to file by specific dates with the SEC
initial  reports of  ownership  and  reports of changes in  ownership  of equity
securities of the Company.  Executive  officers,  directors and greater than ten
percent  stockholders are required by SEC regulation to furnish the Company with
copies of all  Section  16(a)  forms that they file.  The Company is required to
report in this  annual  report on Form 10-K any  failure  of its  directors  and
executive  officers  and greater  than ten percent  stockholders  to file by the
relevant  due date any of these  reports  during the most recent  fiscal year or
prior fiscal years.

     To the  Company's  knowledge,  based  solely  on  review  of copies of such
reports  furnished to the Company  during the year ended  December 31, 2004, all
Section  16(a)  filing  requirements   applicable  to  the  Company's  executive
officers,  directors  and greater than ten percent  stockholders  were  complied
with,  except for several  Section 16(a) filings that were  inadvertently  filed
late by various  officers and directors  during the year and, as reported in the
annual  report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,  2003,  Form 5's in
respect  of option  grants  required  to be filed by each of Rodney C. Sacks and
Hilton H. Schlosberg were inadvertently filed late.

                                       37
<PAGE>

ITEM 11.        EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The  following  tables set forth  certain  information  regarding the total
remuneration  earned and grants of options/ made to the chief executive  officer
and each of the four most highly  compensated  executive officers of the Company
and its  subsidiaries  who earned total cash  compensation in excess of $100,000
during the year ended  December  31,  2004.  These  amounts  reflect  total cash
compensation  paid by the  Company  and its  subsidiaries  to these  individuals
during the years December 31, 2002 through 2004.

                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
================================================================================
                                                                    Long Term
                                 ANNUAL COMPENSATION               Compensation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name and                                                  Other       Securities
Principal                      Salary(1)    Bonus        Annual       underlying
Positions              Year       ($)      (2)($)     Compensation   Options (#)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rodney C. Sacks        2004     245,000    100,000      27,948(3)        -
Chairman, CEO          2003     225,833     35,000      19,333(3)     150,000
and Director           2002     225,504       -         10,331(3)     150,000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg   2004     245,000    100,000       9,671(3)        -
Vice-Chairman, CFO,    2003     225,833     35,000       7,753(3)     150,000
COO, President,        2002     225,504       -          7,753(3)     150,000
Secretary and
Director
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mark J. Hall           2004     200,000    150,000       8,356(3)      60,000
Senior Vice President  2003     175,000     70,000       9,554(3)        -
Single Serve Products  2002     160,000     10,000       7,733(3)      20,000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Michael Schott         2004     160,000     20,000      29,027(6)      32,000
Vice President         2003     140,000     50,000      24,572(4)        -
National Sales         2002      57,256     20,000       7,311(5)      72,000
Single Serve Products
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Thomas J. Kelly        2004     125,000     40,000       9,319(3)      25,000
Vice President         2003     115,000     15,000       6,937(3)        -
Finance                2002     110,000      7,000       7,847(3)      10,000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1    SALARY - Pursuant to employment  agreements,  Messrs.  Sacks and Schlosberg
     were entitled to an annual base salary of $245,000,  $225,833, and $226,748
     for 2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively.

2    BONUS - Payments  made in 2005,  2004 and 2003 are for  bonuses  accrued in
     2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively.

3    OTHER  ANNUAL  COMPENSATION  - The cash value of  perquisites  of the named
     persons  did not total  $50,000 or 10% of  payments of salary and bonus for
     the years shown.

4    Includes  $7,200  for  auto  reimbursement  expense,  $10,000  for  housing
     expenses,  $1,200 for travel expenses,  and $6,172 for other  miscellaneous
     perquisites.

5    Includes  $2,945  for  auto  reimbursement  expenses,  $4,090  for  housing
     expenses and $276 for other miscellaneous perquisites.

6    Includes  $7,200  for  auto  reimbursement  expense,  $10,000  for  housing
     expenses,  $4,800 for travel expenses,  and $7,027 for other  miscellaneous
     perquisites.

                                       38
<PAGE>


               OPTION GRANTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004
<TABLE>
<S>                       <C>                 <C>               <C>          <C>             <C>          <C>
============================================================================================ ===========================
                                                                                                Potential  realizable
                                                                                               value at assumed annual
                                                                                                rates of stock price
                                                                                               appreciation for option
                                     Individual  Grants                                               term(3)
-------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------ --------------- ------------ --------------
                                Number of         Percent of
                               Securities       total Options      Exercise
                               underlying         granted to       or base
                             Options granted     employees in       price      Expiration        5%            10%
Name                               (#)              2004          ($/Share)       Date           ($)           ($)
-------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------ --------------- ------------ --------------
Rodney C. Sacks                     -                 -               -            -              -             -
-------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------ --------------- ------------ --------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg                -                 -               -            -              -             -
-------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------ --------------- ------------ --------------
Mark J. Hall                     60,000(1)          16.2%           $8.15       1/15/14       $307,530      $779,340
-------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------ --------------- ------------ --------------
Michael Schott                   32,000(2)           8.6%           $8.15       1/15/14       $164,016      $415,648
-------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------ --------------- ------------ --------------
Thomas J. Kelly                  25,000(1)           6.7%           $8.15       1/15/14       $128,137      $324,725
-------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------ --------------- ------------ --------------
</TABLE>

1    Options to purchase the Company's common stock become  exercisable in equal
     annual increments over 5 years beginning January 15, 2005.

2    Options to purchase the Company's common stock become  exercisable in equal
     annual increments over 4 years beginning January 15, 2005.

3    The 5% and 10%  assumed  annual  rates  of  appreciation  are  provided  in
     accordance  with the rules and  regulations of the SEC and do not represent
     our estimates or projections of our future Common Stock price growth.


               AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES DURING THE YEAR ENDED
            DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND OPTION VALUES AT DECEMBER 31, 2004

<TABLE>
=======================================================================================
<CAPTION>
<S>                 <C>          <C>        <C>                    <C>
                                                   Number of             Value of
                                                   underlying           unexercised
                                                  unexercised          in-the-money
                                                  Options at            options at
                                               December 31, 2004     December 31, 2004
                        Shares                        (#)                  ($)
                       acquired      Value    -----------------------------------------
                      on exercise   Realized      Exercisable/         Exercisable/
Name                     (#)          ($)        Unexercisable        Unexercisable
--------------------- ------------ ---------- -------------------- --------------------
Rodney C. Sacks          107,500    1,901,750  130,000/200,000(1)   4,182,300/6,492,400
--------------------- ------------ ---------- -------------------- --------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg     107,500    1,901,750  130,000/200,000(1)   4,182,300/6,492,400
--------------------- ------------ ---------- -------------------- --------------------
Mark J. Hall               8,000      147,200        0/72,000(2)            0/2,089,680
-------------------- ------------- ---------- -------------------- --------------------
Michael Schott            24,000      565,320        0/80,000(3)            0/2,467,200
-------------------- ------------- ---------- -------------------- --------------------
Thomas J. Kelly           14,000      263,200        0/31,000(4)            0/  903,540
==================== ============= ========== ==================== ====================
</TABLE>


1    Includes  options to purchase  100,000  shares of common stock at $4.25 per
     share which are exercisable at December 31, 2004, granted pursuant to Stock
     Option  Agreements  dated  February 2, 1999 between the Company and Messrs.
     Sacks and  Schlosberg,  respectively;  options to purchase 80,000 shares of
     common stock at $3.57 per share of which none are  exercisable  at December
     31, 2004,  granted pursuant to Stock Option  Agreements dated July 12, 2002
     between the Company and Messrs.  Sacks and  Schlosberg,  respectively;  and
     options to purchase  150,000  shares of common  stock at $4.20 per share of
     which 30,000 are exercisable at December 31, 2004 granted pursuant to Stock
     Option Agreements dated May 28, 2003 between the Company and Messrs.  Sacks
     and Schlosberg, respectively.

2    Includes  options to purchase  12,000  shares of common  stock at $3.57 per
     share of which none are exercisable at December 31, 2004,  granted pursuant
     to a Stock Option Agreement dated July 12, 2002 between the Company and Mr.
     Hall;  and options to purchase  60,000  shares of common stock at $8.15 per
     share of which none are exercisable at December 31, 2004,  granted pursuant
     to a Stock Option  Agreement dated January 15, 2004 between the Company ant
     Mr. Hall.

                                       39
<PAGE>

3    Includes  options to purchase  48,000  shares of common  stock at $3.85 per
     share of which none are exercisable at December 31, 2004,  granted pursuant
     to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated August 9, 2002 between the Company and
     Mr. Schott;  and options to purchase 32,000 shares of common stock at $8.15
     per share of which none are  exercisable  at  December  31,  2004,  granted
     pursuant to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated  January 15, 2004 between the
     Company and Mr. Schott.

4    Includes  options to  purchase  6,000  shares of common  stock at $3.57 per
     share of which none are exercisable at December 31, 2004,  granted pursuant
     to a stock Option Agreement dated July 12, 2002 between the Company and Mr.
     Kelly;  and options to purchase  25,000 shares of common stock at $8.15 per
     share of which none are exercisable at December 31, 2004,  granted pursuant
     to a Stock Option  Agreement dated January 15, 2004 between the Company and
     Mr. Kelly.

Performance Graph

     The  following  graph  shows a five-year  comparison  of  cumulative  total
returns:(1)

                           Total Shareholder Returns

                            ANNUAL RETURN PERCENTAGE

For the years ended December 31,

Company Name/Index               2000      2001      2002      2003      2004
----------------------        ---------  --------  --------  --------   --------
HANSEN NATURAL CORP            (10.14)     8.39      0.50     99.48    332.42
S&P SMALLCAP 600 INDEX          11.80      6.54    (14.63)    38.79     22.65
PEER GROUP                       8.06     82.83     17.06     41.59     (1.94)

                                 INDEX RETURNS
For the years ended December 31,

                        Base
                       Period
Company Name/Index      1999     2000      2001      2002      2003      2004
---------------------------------------  --------  --------  --------  ---------
HANSEN NATURAL CORP     100     89.86     97.39     97.88    195.25    844.29
S&P SMALLCAP 600 INDEX  100    111.80    119.11    101.68    141.13    173.09
PEER GROUP              100    108.06    197.56    231.26    327.44    321.08


1    Annual return assumes  reinvestment of dividends.  Cumulative  total return
     assumes an initial  investment of $100 on December 31, 1999.  The Company's
     self-selected  peer group is  comprised of National  Beverage  Corporation,
     Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Triarc Companies,  Inc., Leading Brands,
     Inc., Cott Corporation, Northland Cranberries and Jones Soda Co. All of the
     companies in the peer group traded during the entire  five-year period with
     the exception of Triarc Companies, Inc., which sold their beverage business
     in October 2000,  Jones Soda Co., which started trading in August 2000, and
     Northland Cranberries, which began trading November 2001.

Employment Agreements

     The Company  entered into an employment  agreement dated as of June 1, 2003
with Rodney C. Sacks pursuant to which Mr. Sacks renders services to the Company
as its  Chairman  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  for an annual  base  salary of
$230,000 for the 7-months  ended  December  31,  2003,  $245,000 for 2004,  with
subsequent increases of a minimum of 5% for each subsequent year, plus an annual
bonus in an amount  determined  at the  discretion of the Board of Directors and
certain fringe  benefits.  The employment  period  commenced on June 1, 2003 and
ends on December 31, 2008.

                                       40
<PAGE>

     The Company also entered into an employment  agreement  dated as of June 1,
2003 with Hilton H. Schlosberg pursuant to which Mr. Schlosberg renders services
to the Company as its Vice Chairman,  President,  Chief Operating Officer, Chief
Financial  Officer and  Secretary  for an annual base salary of $230,000 for the
7-months ended December 31, 2003,  $245,000 for 2004, with subsequent  increases
of a minimum of 5% for each  subsequent  year, plus an annual bonus in an amount
determined  at the  discretion  of the Board of  Directors  and  certain  fringe
benefits.  The employment  period commenced on June 1, 2003 and ends on December
31, 2008.

     The employment  agreements for Messrs. Sacks and Schlosberg,  and the terms
and  conditions  thereof,  were  discussed  and  approved  by  the  Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors.

     The preceding  descriptions of the employment  agreements for Messrs. Sacks
and Schlosberg are qualified in their entirety by reference to such  agreements,
which have been filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to this report.

Directors' Compensation

     In 2004,  outside  directors were entitled to an annual fee of $10,000 plus
$1,000 for each meeting of the Board of Directors  attended.  Outside  directors
were also  entitled to $500 for each  committee  meeting  attended in person and
$250 for each committee meeting attended by telephone.

Compensation  Committee  Interlocks and Insider  Participation  in  Compensation
Decisions

     The  Company's  Compensation  Committee is composed of Mr.  Epstein and Mr.
Vidergauz.  No  interlocking  relationships  exist  between  any  member  of the
Company's  Board of Directors or  Compensation  Committee  and any member of the
board of directors or compensation  committee of any other company,  nor has any
such  interlocking   relationship   existed  in  the  past.  No  member  of  the
Compensation  Committee  is or was  formerly  an officer or an  employee  of the
Company.

Employee Stock Option Plans

     The Company has a stock  option plan (the  "Plan")  that  provided  for the
grant of options to purchase up to  3,000,000  shares of the common stock of the
Company to certain key  employees of the Company and its  subsidiaries.  Options
granted  under the Plan may either be incentive  stock options  qualified  under
Section 422 of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,  or non-qualified
options.  Such options are exercisable at fair market value on the date of grant
for a period of up to ten years.  Under the Plan,  shares subject to options may
be purchased for cash, or for shares of common stock valued at fair market value
on the date of purchase.  Under the Plan, no  additional  options may be granted
after July 1, 2001.

     During 2001, the Company adopted the Hansen Natural  Corporation 2001 Stock
Option Plan ("2001 Option Plan"). The 2001 Option Plan provides for the grant of
options to purchase up to 2,000,000 shares of the common stock of the Company to
certain key employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. Options granted under
the 2001 Stock Option Plan may be incentive  stock  options under Section 422 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code"),  nonqualified stock options,
or stock appreciation rights.

     The Plan and the 2001  Option  Plan are  administered  by the  Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company,  comprised of directors  who
satisfy  the  "non-employee"  director  requirements  of Rule  16b-3  under  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 and the "outside director" provision of Section
162(m) of the Code.  Grants  under  the Plan and the 2001  Option  Plan are made
pursuant to  individual  agreements  between the Company and each  grantee  that
specifies the terms of the grant, including the exercise price, exercise period,
vesting and other terms thereof.

Outside Directors Stock Option Plan

     The Company has an option plan for its outside  directors  (the  "Directors
Plan") that  provides for the grant of options to purchase up to an aggregate of
100,000  shares of common  stock of the Company to  directors of the Company who
are not and have not been employed by or acted as consultants to the Company and

                                       41
<PAGE>

its  subsidiaries  or affiliates  and who are not and have not been nominated to
the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to a contractual arrangement.  On
the date of the annual meeting of stockholders at which an eligible  director is
initially  elected,  each  eligible  director  is entitled to receive a one-time
grant of an option to purchase  6,000 shares  (12,000  shares if the director is
serving on a committee of the Board) of the Company's  Common Stock  exercisable
at the closing  price for a share of common stock on the date of grant.  Options
become exercisable  one-third each on the first, second and third anniversary of
the date of grant; provided that all options held by an eligible director become
fully and  immediately  exercisable  upon a change in  control  of the  Company.
Options granted under the Directors Plan that are not exercised generally expire
ten years after the date of grant. Option grants may be made under the Directors
Plan for ten years from the effective date of the Directors  Plan. The Directors
Plan is a "formula plan" so that a non-employee director's  participation in the
Directors  Plan does not  affect  his  status as a  "disinterested  person"  (as
defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).

ITEM 12.        SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT

The disclosure set forth in Item 5 of this report is incorporated herein.

(a) The  following  table sets forth  information,  as of February 23, 2005,  in
respect of the only persons known to the Company who  beneficially own more than
5% of the  outstanding  common  stock of the  Company:

                                                       Amount
                                                    and Nature of
Title              Name and Address                   Beneficial       Percent
Of Class         of Beneficial Owner                   Ownership       of Class
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common Stock   Brandon Limited Partnership No. 1(1)     297,822         2.6%
               Brandon Limited Partnership No. 2(2)   1,591,667        14.1%
               Rodney C. Sacks (3)                    2,514,489(4)     22.3%
               Hilton H. Schlosberg (5)               2,475,586(6)     21.9%
               Kevin  Douglas, Douglas Family Trust
               and James Douglas and Jean Douglas
               Irrevocable Descendants' Trust(7)      1,078,561(8)      9.5%
               Fidelity Low Priced Stock Fund (9)     1,008,875         8.9%

1    The mailing  address of Brandon No. 1 is P.O. Box 30749,  Seven Mile Beach,
     Grand Cayman,  British West Indies.  The general  partners of Brandon No. 1
     are Rodney C. Sacks and Hilton H. Schlosberg.

2    The mailing  address of Brandon No. 2 is P.O. Box 30749,  Seven Mile Beach,
     Grand Cayman,  British West Indies.  The general  partners of Brandon No. 2
     are Rodney C. Sacks and Hilton H. Schlosberg.

3    The  mailing  address  of  Mr.  Sacks  is  1010  Railroad  Street,  Corona,
     California 92882.

4    Includes 495,000 shares of common stock owned by Mr. Sacks;  297,822 shares
     beneficially  held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Sacks is one of Brandon No.
     1's general partners; and 1,591,667 shares beneficially held by Brandon No.
     2 because  Mr.  Sacks is one of Brandon  No.  2's  general  partners.  Also
     includes options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock  exercisable at
     $4.25  per  share,  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated
     February 2, 1999 between the Company and Mr. Sacks;  and options  presently
     exercisable  to purchase  30,000 shares of common stock,  out of options to
     purchase a total of 150,000 shares, exercisable at $4.20 per share, granted
     pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated May 28, 2003 between the Company
     and Mr. Sacks.

     Mr. Sacks disclaims  beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially
     owned by him hereunder except: (i) 495,000 shares of common stock; (ii) the
     130,000 shares presently  exercisable  under Stock Option  Agreements;  and
     (iii)  65,046  shares  held by  Brandon  No.  1  allocable  to the  limited
     partnership  interests in Brandon No. 1 held by Mr. Sacks, his children,  a
     limited  partnership  of which Mr.  Sacks is the  general  partner  and his
     children  and he are the limited  partners,  and a trust for the benefit of
     his children.

5    The mailing  address of Mr.  Schlosberg  is 1010 Railroad  Street,  Corona,
     California 92882.

                                       42
<PAGE>

6    Includes 456,097 shares of common stock owned by Mr.  Schlosberg,  of which
     2,000  shares are jointly  owned by Mr.  Schlosberg  and his wife,  297,822
     shares  beneficially held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Schlosberg is one of
     Brandon No. 1's general partners; and 1,591,667 shares beneficially held by
     Brandon  No. 2 because  Mr.  Schlosberg  is one of Brandon  No. 2's general
     partners.  Also includes options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock
     exercisable  at  $4.25  per  share,  granted  pursuant  to a  Stock  Option
     Agreement  dated  February 2, 1999 between the Company and Mr.  Schlosberg;
     and  options  presently  exercisable  to purchase  30,000  shares of common
     stock, out of options to purchase a total of 150,000 shares, exercisable at
     $4.20 per share, granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated May 28,
     2003  between the  Company and Mr.  Schlosberg.

     Mr.  Schlosberg   disclaims  beneficial  ownership  of  all  shares  deemed
     beneficially  owned by him hereunder  except:  (i) 456,097 shares of common
     stock,  (ii) the 130,000 shares  presently  exercisable  under Stock Option
     Agreements;  and (iii) 69,411 shares held by Brandon No. 1 allocable to the
     limited  partnership  interests in Brandon No. 1 held by Mr. Schlosberg and
     his children.

7    The mailing  address of this reporting  person is 1101 Fifth Avenue,  Suite
     360, San Rafael, California 94901.

8    Includes  414,786  shares  of  common  stock  owned by Kevin  and  Michelle
     Douglas;  311,499  shares of common  stock owned by James  Douglas and Jean
     Douglas  Irrevocable  Descendants'  Trust;  329,056  shares of common stock
     owned by Douglas  Family Trust;  and 23,220 shares of common stock owned by
     James E. Douglas III. Kevin Douglas, James E. Douglas, Douglas Family Trust
     and James  Douglas  and Jean  Douglas  Irrevocable  Descendants'  Trust are
     deemed members of a group that shares voting and dispositive power over the
     shares.

9    The  mailing  address of this  reporting  person is 82  Devonshire  Street,
     Boston, Massachusetts, 02109.


(b) The following table sets forth information as to the beneficial ownership of
shares of common  stock,  as of  February  23,  2005,  held by  persons  who are
directors of the Company and certain executive officers,  naming them, and as to
directors and all executive  officers of the Company as a group,  without naming
them:

Title of Class    Name                    Amount Owned     Percent of Class
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common Stock      Rodney C. Sacks         2,514,489(1)      22.3%
                  Hilton H. Schlosberg    2,475,586(2)      21.9%
                  Mark J. Hall               42,000(3)         *%
                  Michael Schott             26,384(4)         *%
                  Thomas J. Kelly             5,000(5)         *%
                  Harold C. Taber, Jr.         -
                  Mark S. Vidergauz            -
                  Sydney Selati                -
                  Benjamin M. Polk             -
                  Norman C. Epstein            -


Executive  Officers and Directors as a group:  11 members;  3,188,271  shares or
28.2% in aggregate(6).

*Less than 1%

1    Includes 495,000 shares of common stock owned by Mr. Sacks;  297,822 shares
     beneficially  held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Sacks is one of Brandon No.
     1's general partners; and 1,591,667 shares beneficially held by Brandon No.
     2 because  Mr.  Sacks is one of Brandon  No.  2's  general  partners.  Also
     includes options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock  exercisable at
     $4.25  per  share,  granted  pursuant  to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated
     February 2, 1999 between the Company and Mr. Sacks;  and options  presently
     exercisable  to purchase  30,000 shares of common stock,  out of options to
     purchase a total of 150,000 shares, exercisable at $4.20 per share, granted
     pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated May 28, 2003 between the Company
     and Mr. Sacks.

     Mr. Sacks disclaims  beneficial ownership of all shares deemed beneficially
     owned by him hereunder except: (i) 495,000 shares of common stock; (ii) the
     130,000 shares presently  exercisable  under Stock Option  Agreements;  and
     (iii)  65,046  shares  held by  Brandon  No.  1  allocable  to the  limited
     partnership  interests in Brandon No. 1 held by Mr. Sacks, his children,  a
     limited  partnership  of which Mr.  Sacks is the  general  partner  and his
     children  and he are the limited  partners,  and a trust for the benefit of
     his children;

                                       43
<PAGE>

2    Includes 456,097 shares of common stock owned by Mr.  Schlosberg,  of which
     2,000  shares are owned  jointly by Mr.  Schlosberg  and his wife;  297,822
     shares  beneficially held by Brandon No. 1 because Mr. Schlosberg is one of
     Brandon No. 1's general partners; and 1,591,667 shares beneficially held by
     Brandon  No. 2 because  Mr.  Schlosberg  is one of Brandon  No. 2's general
     partners.  Also includes options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock
     exercisable  at  $4.25  per  share,  granted  pursuant  to a  Stock  Option
     Agreement  dated  February 2, 1999 between the Company and Mr.  Schlosberg;
     options  presently  exercisable to purchase  30,000 shares of common stock,
     out of and  options  presently  exercisable  to purchase  30,000  shares of
     common  stock,  out of  options  to  purchase  a total of  150,000  shares,
     exercisable  at  $4.20  per  share,  granted  pursuant  to a  Stock  Option
     Agreement  dated May 28, 2003 between the Company and Mr.  Schlosberg.

     Mr.  Schlosberg   disclaims  beneficial  ownership  of  all  shares  deemed
     beneficially  owned by him hereunder  except:  (i) 456,097 shares of common
     stock,  (ii) the 130,000 shares  presently  exercisable  under Stock Option
     Agreements;  and (iii) 69,411 shares held by Brandon No. 1 allocable to the
     limited  partnership  interests in Brandon No. 1 held by Mr. Schlosberg and
     his children.

3    Includes  27,000  shares  of common  stock  owned by Mr.  Hall and  options
     presently  exercisable  to purchase  12,000 shares of common stock,  out of
     options to  purchase  a total of 60,000  shares,  exercisable  at $8.15 per
     share,  granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated January 15, 2004
     between the Company and Mr.  Hall;  and options  presently  exercisable  to
     purchase 3,000 shares of common stock out of options to purchase a total of
     15,000  shares of common  stock  exercisable  at $8.15 per  share,  granted
     pursuant to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated  January 15, 2004 between the
     Company and Mrs. Hall.

4    Includes  22,384  shares of common  stock  owned by Mr.  Schott and options
     presently  exercisable  to purchase  4,000 shares of common  stock,  out of
     options to  purchase  a total of 32,000  shares,  exercisable  at $8.15 per
     share,  granted pursuant to a Stock Option Agreement dated January 15, 2004
     between the Company and Mr. Schott.

5    Includes options  presently  exercisable to purchase 5,000 shares of common
     stock and out of options to purchase a total of 25,000 shares,  exercisable
     at $8.15 per share,  granted  pursuant to a Stock  Option  Agreement  dated
     January 15, 2004 between the Company and Mr. Kelly.

6    Includes  securities  beneficially  owned by all  directors  and  executive
     officers of the Company including those listed above.

     There are no arrangements known to the Company,  the operation of which may
at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the Company.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Benjamin M. Polk is a partner in Schulte  Roth & Zabel LLP, a law firm that
has been  retained by the Company since May 2004,  and was  previously a partner
with Winston & Strawn LLP, a law firm (together with its predecessors)  that had
been retained by the company since 1992.

     Rodney C. Sacks is  currently  acting as the sole Trustee of a trust formed
pursuant to an Agreement of Trust dated July 27, 1992 for the purpose of holding
the Hansen's  (r)  trademark.  The Company and HBC have agreed to indemnify  Mr.
Sacks and hold him harmless  from any claims,  loss or liability  arising out of
his acting as Trustee.

     During 2004, the Company  purchased  promotional items from IFM Group, Inc.
("IFM"). Rodney C. Sacks, together with members of his family, own approximately
27% of the issued shares in IFM. Hilton H. Schlosberg,  together with members of
his family,  own approximately  43% of the issued shares in IFM.  Purchases from
IFM of  promotional  items in 2004,  2003 and 2002 were  $638,590,  $331,478 and
$164,199, respectively. The Company continues to purchase promotional items from
IFM Group, Inc. in 2005.

     The preceding descriptions of agreements are qualified in their entirety by
reference to such agreements, which have been filed as exhibits to this Report.

                                       44
<PAGE>

ITEM 14.         PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Accounting Fees

     Aggregate fees billed and unbilled to the company for service  provided for
the  years  ended  December  31,  2004,  and  2003  by the  Company's  principal
accounting  firm,  Deloitte & Touche LLP,  the member  firms of Deloitte  Touche
Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates (collectively, "Deloitte & Touche"):


                                       Year ended December 31,
                                        2004             2003
                                    -----------      -----------
Audit Fees                           $ 153,750        $ 132,500
Audit-Related Fees(1)                  310,825            5,000
                                    -----------      -----------
Total audit and audit-related fees     464,575          137,500
Tax Fees(2)
All other Fees                           8,360
                                    -----------      -----------
Total Fees(3)                        $ 472,935        $ 137,500
                                    ===========      ===========

1    Audit   related  fees   consist  of   consultation   services   related  to
     Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 Implementation.

2    Tax fees consisted of fees for tax consultation services including advisory
     services for state tax analysis and tax audit assistance.

3    For years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,  all of the services  performed
     by Deloitte & Touche have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.

     The Audit Committee has considered whether Deloitte & Touche's provision of
the non-audit  services covered above is compatible with maintaining  Deloitte &
Touche's independence and has determined that it is.

Audit  Committee  Pre-Approval of Audit and  Permissible  Non-Audit  Services of
Independent Auditors

     The Audit  Committee's  policy is to  pre-approve  all audit and  non-audit
services  provided by the Company's  independent  auditors.  These  services may
include audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
Pre-approval is generally  provided for up to one year, and any  pre-approval is
detailed as to the  particular  service or category of services and is generally
subject to a specific  budget.  The Audit  Committee has delegated  pre-approval
authority to its  Chairman  when  necessary  due to timing  considerations.  Any
services  approved by the Chairman must be reported to the full Audit  Committee
at its next  scheduled  meeting.  The  independent  auditors and  management are
required to periodically report to the full Audit Committee regarding the extent
of  services  provided  by the  independent  auditors  in  accordance  with  the
pre-approval policies, and the fees for the services performed to date.

                                       45
<PAGE>

PART IV

ITEM 15.        EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. Exhibits
     See the Index to Exhibits included hereinafter.

     2. Index to Financial Statements filed as part of this Report

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                  50

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003             51

     Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the years ended
     December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                                         52

     Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders'  Equity  for  the  years
     ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                                   53

     Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the years  ended
     December  31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                                        54

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
     December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                                         56

(b)  Financial Statement Schedule
     Valuation and  Qualifying  Accounts for the years ended
     December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                                         69

(c)  Reports on From 8-K
     None

                                       46
<PAGE>

SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the  requirements  of  Sections  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION


/s/ RODNEY C. SACKS           Rodney C. Sacks             Date:   March 15, 2005
-------------------           Chairman of the Board

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                     Title                           Date
------------------------      -------------------------       ------------------

/s/ RODNEY C. SACKS           Chairman of the Board of        March 15,  2005
------------------------      Directors and Chief Executive
Rodney C. Sacks               Officer (principal executive
                              officer)


/s/ HILTON H. SCHLOSBERG      Vice Chairman of the Board of   March 15, 2005
------------------------      Directors, President, Chief
Hilton H. Schlosberg          Operating Officer, Chief
                              Financial Officer and Secretary
                              (principal financial officer,
                              controller and principal
                              accounting officer)

/s/ NORMAN C. EPSTEIN         Director                        March 15, 2005
------------------------
Norman C. Epstein

/s/ BENJAMIN M. POLK          Director                        March 15, 2005
------------------------
Benjamin M. Polk

 /s/ SYDNEY SELATI            Director                        March 15, 2005
------------------------
Sydney Selati

/s/ HAROLD C. TABER, JR.      Director                        March 15, 2005
------------------------
Harold C. Taber, Jr.

/s/ MARK S. VIDERGAUZ         Director                        March 15, 2005
------------------------
Mark S. Vidergauz

                                       47
<PAGE>

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

     The following  designated  exhibits,  as indicated  below, are either filed
herewith  or have  heretofore  been  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  under the Securities  Act of 1933 or the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934 as indicated by footnote.

--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Exhibit
No.       Document Description
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.23     Stock  option  Agreement  dated as of January  15, 2004 by and between
          Hansen Natural Corporation and Mark Hall.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.24     Stock  option  Agreement  dated as of January  15, 2004 by and between
          Hansen Natural Corporation and Michael Schott.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.25     Stock  option  Agreement  dated as of January  15, 2004 by and between
          Hansen Natural Corporation and Kirk Blower.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.26     Stock  option  Agreement  dated as of January  15, 2004 by and between
          Hansen Natural Corporation and Thomas J. Kelly.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.27     Contract  Packing   Agreement  by  and  between  Southwest  Canning  &
          Packaging and Hansen Beverage Company dated April 5, 1996.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.28     Contract  Manufacturing and Packaging Agreement by and between Nor-Cal
          Beverage  Co., Inc. and Hansen  Beverage  Company dated March 1, 2004;
          First Amendment to the Contract  Manufacturing and Packaging Agreement
          dated March 4, 2004.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.29     Product  Manufacture and Supply  Agreement by and between  Seven-Up/RC
          Bottling Company of Southern California dated April 15, 2003.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.30     Contract Packer Agreement by and between  Southeast  Atlantic Beverage
          Corporation and Hansen Beverage Company dated July 24, 2004.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.31     Beverage  Production  and  Packaging  Agreement  by and  between  City
          Brewing  Company,  LLC and Hansen Beverage  Company dated February 23,
          2005.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.32     Manufacturing  Contract  by  and  between  Pri-Pak,  Inc.  and  Hansen
          Beverage Company dated October 16, 2003.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
10.33     Amended  and  Restated  Loan and  Security  Agreement  by and  between
          Comerica Bank - California and Hansen Beverage  Company dated December
          1, 2004.
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
21        Subsidiaries(1)
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
23        Independent Auditors' Consent
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
31.1      Certification  by CEO  pursuant to Rule  13A-14(a) or 15D-14(a) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of
          the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
31.2      Certification  by CFO  pursuant to Rule  13A-14(a) or 15D-14(a) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of
          the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
32.1      Certification  by CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section  1350, as adopted
          pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
32.2      Certification  by CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section  1350, as adopted
          pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Filed  previously  as an exhibit to Form 10-KSB for the year ended  December
    31, 1992.
                                       48
<PAGE>

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                                                                        Page
                                                                  --------------
HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                  50

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003             51

Consolidated  Statements of Income for the years ended  December 31,
2004,  2003 and 2002                                                     52

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                                         53

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002                                                      54

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                                         56

Financial Statement Schedule - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002                     69

                                       49
<PAGE>

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Hansen Natural Corporation
Corona, California



We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Hansen Natural
Corporation and  subsidiaries  (the "Company") as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
and the related  consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders'  equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31, 2004.
Our audits also included the financial  statement schedule listed in Item 15(b).
These   financial   statements   and  financial   statement   schedule  are  the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the financial  statements and financial  statement schedules based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial  statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the financial  position of Hansen Natural  Corporation  and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  2004  and  2003,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting  principles  generally accepted
in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
schedule,  when  considered  in  relation  to the basic  consolidated  financial
statements  taken as a whole,  present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the
information set forth therein.

We have also  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the effectiveness of the Company's
internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the
criteria  established  in Internal  Control-Integrated  Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report
dated March 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment
of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial  reporting
and an  unqualified  opinion  on the  effectiveness  of the  Company's  internal
control over financial reporting.


DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Costa Mesa, California
March 14, 2005

                                       50
<PAGE>

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND 2003
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                        <C>                   <C>
                                                                                  2004                  2003
                                                                           -------------------   --------------------
                                ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $ 20,976,119           $  1,098,785
Accounts receivable, net                                                           12,650,055              5,372,983
Inventories, net (Note 2)                                                          22,406,054             17,643,786
Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                             638,967                481,777
Deferred income tax asset (Note 7)                                                  3,708,942              2,080,609
                                                                           -------------------   --------------------
     Total current assets                                                          60,380,137             26,677,940

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, net (Note 3)                                                2,964,064              2,803,282

INTANGIBLE AND OTHER ASSETS:
Trademark license and trademarks (net of accumulated
     amortization of $219,264 in 2004 and $146,218 in 2003)
     (Note 1)                                                                      18,351,804             18,293,704
Deposits and other assets                                                             326,312                222,102
                                                                           -------------------   --------------------
                                                                                   18,678,116             18,515,806
                                                                           -------------------   --------------------
                                                                                 $ 82,022,317           $ 47,997,028
                                                                           ===================   ====================

                 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable                                                                 $ 14,542,753           $  6,521,402
Accrued liabilities                                                                 1,582,968              1,185,342
Accrued compensation                                                                1,831,627                883,459
Current portion of long-term debt (Note 4)                                            437,366                244,271
Income taxes payable                                                                  346,449                647,263
                                                                           -------------------   --------------------
     Total current liabilities                                                     18,741,163              9,481,737

LONG-TERM DEBT, less current portion (Note 4)                                         146,486                358,064

DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITY (Note 7)                                              4,563,439              3,107,649

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Note 6)                                                   -                      -

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Note 8):
Common stock - $0.005 par value; 30,000,000 shares
     authorized; 11,119,864 shares issued, 10,913,013
     outstanding in 2004; 10,624,864 shares issued, 10,418,103
     outstanding in 2003                                                               55,599                 53,124
Additional paid-in capital                                                         15,813,541             12,681,169
Retained earnings                                                                  43,516,634             23,129,830
Common stock in treasury, at cost; 206,761 in 2004 and 2003                          (814,545)              (814,545)
                                                                           -------------------   --------------------
     Total shareholders' equity                                                    58,571,229             35,049,578
                                                                           -------------------   --------------------
                                                                                 $ 82,022,317           $ 47,997,028
                                                                           ===================   ====================

</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       51
<PAGE>

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004, 2003 AND 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<S>                                                      <C>                  <C>                  <C>
                                                               2004                 2003                 2002
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

GROSS SALES                                                  $ 226,984,231        $ 138,454,345       $ 115,490,019

LESS:  Discounts, allowances and
     promotional payments                                       46,643,096           28,102,149          23,443,657
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

NET SALES                                                      180,341,135          110,352,196          92,046,362

COST OF SALES                                                   96,874,750           66,577,168          58,802,669
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

GROSS PROFIT                                                    83,466,385           43,775,028          33,243,693

OPERATING EXPENSES:
Selling, general and administrative                             49,507,137           33,887,045          27,896,202
Amortization of trademark license and
     trademarks                                                     73,046               61,888              54,558
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

     Total operating expenses                                   49,580,183           33,948,933          27,950,760
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

OPERATING INCOME                                                33,886,202            9,826,095           5,292,933

NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE:
Interest and financing expense                                      41,988               72,592             230,732
Interest and royalty income                                        (93,983)              (5,579)             (2,974)
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

     Net nonoperating (income) expense                             (51,995)              67,013             227,758
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

INCOME BEFORE PROVISION FOR
     INCOME TAXES                                               33,938,197            9,759,082           5,065,175

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
     (Note 7)                                                   13,551,393            3,828,678           2,035,980
                                                         ------------------   ------------------   -----------------

NET INCOME                                                   $  20,386,804        $   5,930,404       $   3,029,195
                                                         ==================   ==================   =================

NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE:
     Basic                                                   $        1.91        $        0.58       $        0.30
                                                         ==================   ==================   =================
     Diluted                                                 $        1.73        $        0.55       $        0.29
                                                         ==================   ==================   =================

WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES
  OUTSTANDING:
     Basic                                                      10,666,892           10,278,710          10,052,499
                                                         ==================   ==================   =================
     Diluted                                                    11,809,940           10,762,157          10,339,604
                                                         ==================   ==================   =================

</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       52
<PAGE>

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004, 2003 AND 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<S>                     <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>             <C>          <C>          <C>

                                Common stock           Additional                        Treasury stock                Total
                        ----------------------------     paid-in        Retained     -------------------------     shareholders'
                            Shares        Amount         capital        earnings       Shares        Amount           equity
                        -------------- -------------  --------------    --------     -----------  ------------  ------------------
 Balance,
      January 1, 2002      10,251,764      $ 51,259    $ 11,926,604    $ 14,170,231    (206,761)   $ (814,545)       $ 25,333,549

 Exercise of stock
     options                    8,000            40           7,960                                                         8,000

 Net income                                                               3,029,195                                     3,029,195
                        -------------- -------------  -------------- --------------- -----------  ------------ -------------------

 Balance,
      December 31, 2002    10,259,764        51,299      11,934,564      17,199,426    (206,761)     (814,545)         28,370,744

 Exercise of stock
     options                  365,100         1,825         746,605                                                       748,430

 Net income                                                               5,930,404                                     5,930,404
                        -------------- -------------  -------------- --------------- -----------  ------------ -------------------

 Balance,
      December 31, 2003    10,624,864        53,124      12,681,169      23,129,830    (206,761)     (814,545)         35,049,578

 Exercise of stock
     options                  495,000         2,475       1,717,453                                                     1,719,928

 Reduction of tax liability
 in connection with the
 exercise of certain
 stock options                                            1,414,919                                                     1,414,919

 Net income                                                              20,386,804                                    20,386,804
                        -------------- -------------  -------------- --------------- -----------  ------------ -------------------

 Balance,
      December 31, 2004    11,119,864      $ 55,599    $ 15,813,541    $ 43,516,634    (206,761)   $ (814,545)       $ 58,571,229
                        ============== =============  ============== =============== ===========  ============ ===================

</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       53
<PAGE>

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004, 2003 AND 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                  <C>                  <C>                  <C>
                                                                           2004                 2003                 2002
                                                                     ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income                                                                $ 20,386,804          $ 5,930,404          $ 3,029,195
Adjustments to reconcile net income to
     net cash provided by operating activities:
     Amortization of trademark license and trademarks                           73,046               61,888               54,558
     Depreciation and other amortization                                       770,413              584,197              493,894
     Impairment of operating equipment                                         587,877                 -                    -
     Loss on disposal of plant and equipment                                   120,200               31,992                5,318
     Deferred income taxes                                                    (172,543)            (360,524)             522,462
     Provision for allowance for doubtful accounts                            (116,311)              16,996               52,122
     Effect on cash of changes in operating assets
         and liabilities:
         Accounts receivable                                                (7,160,761)             559,423           (1,589,102)
         Inventories                                                        (4,762,268)          (6,000,052)             312,946
         Prepaid expenses and other current assets                            (157,190)             500,713              (35,704)
         Accounts payable                                                    8,021,351            1,789,141              812,520
         Accrued liabilities                                                   397,626              504,383             (190,882)
         Accrued compensation                                                  948,168              573,395             (122,832)
         Income taxes payable/receivable                                     1,114,105            1,292,458             (617,826)
                                                                     ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
            Net cash provided by operating activities                       20,050,517            5,484,414            2,726,669

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchases of property and equipment                                         (1,260,068)          (1,627,490)            (416,873)
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment                                    24,698               70,826
Additions to trademark license and trademarks                                 (131,146)            (995,137)             (64,792)
(Increase) decrease in deposits and other assets                              (104,210)             114,267              389,456
                                                                     ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
            Net cash used in investing activities                           (1,470,726)          (2,437,534)             (92,209)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Principal payments on long-term debt                                          (422,385)          (3,234,445)          (2,352,197)
Proceeds from issuance of common stock                                       1,719,928              748,430                8,000
                                                                     ------------------   ------------------   ------------------

            Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities              1,297,543           (2,486,015)          (2,344,197)
                                                                     ------------------   ------------------   ------------------

NET INCREASE IN CASH AND
     CASH EQUIVALENTS                                                       19,877,334              560,865              290,263
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, beginning
     of year                                                                 1,098,785              537,920              247,657
                                                                     ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, end of year                                    $ 20,976,119          $ 1,098,785          $   537,920
                                                                     ==================   ==================   ==================

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
  Cash paid during the year for:
     Interest                                                             $     35,510          $    76,306          $   235,779
                                                                     ==================   ==================   ==================
     Income taxes                                                         $ 12,538,355          $ 2,896,743          $ 2,131,344
                                                                     ==================   ==================   ==================

</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       54
<PAGE>

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued)
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004, 2003 AND 2002

NONCASH TRANSACTIONS:

     During 2004, the Company  entered into capital leases of $403,902,  for the
acquisition of promotional vehicles.

     During 2004, the Company reduced current income taxes payable and increased
additional  paid-in  capital in the amount of $1,414,919 in connection  with the
exercise of certain stock options.

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       55
<PAGE>

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004, 2003 AND 2002

1. ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Organization - Hansen Natural  Corporation  (the "Company" or "Hansen") was
incorporated in Delaware on April 25, 1990. The Company is a holding company and
has no operating business except through its direct  wholly-owned  subsidiaries,
Hansen Beverage  Company  ("HBC") which was  incorporated in Delaware on June 8,
1992 and Hard e Beverage  Company ("HEB") formerly known as Hard Energy Company,
and previously  known as CVI Ventures,  Inc., which was incorporated in Delaware
on April 30, 1990.  HBC conducts the vast  majority of the  Company's  operating
business and generates  substantially all of the Company's  operating  revenues.
References  herein  to  "Hansen"  or the  "Company"  when used to  describe  the
operating  business of the Company are  references to the business of HBC unless
otherwise  indicated,  and  references  herein to HEB when used to describe  the
operating  business of HEB, are  references to the Hard e brand  business of HEB
unless otherwise indicated.

     In addition, HBC, through its wholly-owned  subsidiaries,  Blue Sky Natural
Beverage Co. ("Blue Sky") and Hansen Junior Juice Company  ("Junior Juice") owns
and operates the natural soda business  under the Blue Sky(r)  trademark and the
Junior Juice beverage business under the Junior Juice trademarks, respectively.

     Nature of Operations  -Hansen markets and distributes  Hansen's(r)  Natural
Sodas,   Signature  Sodas,  fruit  juice  and  soy  Smoothies,   Energy  drinks,
Energade(r)  energy  sports  drinks,  E20 Energy  Water(r),  functional  drinks,
Sparkling  Lemonades  and  Orangeades,  multi-vitamin  juice  drinks in  aseptic
packaging,  Junior Juice(r)  juice,  iced teas,  lemonades and juice  cocktails,
apple juice,  cider and juice  blends,  as well as nutrition  bars,  Blue Sky(r)
brand  carbonated  beverages,  Monster  EnergyTM brand energy drinks and Lost(r)
Energy brand energy drinks and RumbaTM brand Energy Juice.

     Basis of Presentation - The accompanying  consolidated financial statements
have been prepared in accordance with accounting  principles  generally accepted
in the United States of America ("generally accepted accounting principles").

     Principles  of  Consolidation  - The  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements  include the  accounts of Hansen and its wholly  owned  subsidiaries,
HBC,  HEB,  Blue  Sky  and  Junior  Juice  since  their   respective   dates  of
incorporation.  All intercompany  balances and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.

     Reclassifications  -  Certain  reclassifications  have  been  made  in  the
consolidated financial statements to conform to the 2004 presentation.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents - The Company  considers  certificates of deposit
with  original  maturities  of  three  months  or  less  to  be  cash  and  cash
equivalents.  The Company  maintains  cash  deposits with major banks which from
time to time may exceed  federally  insured  limits.  The  Company  periodically
assesses the financial  condition of the institutions and believes that the risk
of any loss is minimal.

     Inventories  - Inventories  are valued at the lower of first-in,  first-out
(FIFO) cost or market value (net realizable value).

     Property  and  Equipment  -  Property  and  equipment  are  stated at cost.
Depreciation of furniture, office equipment,  equipment and vehicles is based on
their  estimated  useful lives (three to ten years) and is calculated  using the
straight-line  method.  Amortization  of leasehold  improvements is based on the
lesser of their estimated useful lives or the terms of the related leases and is
calculated using the straight-line method.

                                       56
<PAGE>

     Trademark  License  and  Trademarks  -  Trademark  license  and  trademarks
represents the Company's  exclusive  ownership of the  Hansen's(r)  trademark in
connection with the  manufacture,  sale and  distribution of beverages and water
and non-beverage products. The Company also owns a number of other trademarks in
the United  States as well as in a number of  countries  around  the world.  The
Company  also owns the Blue Sky(r)  trademark,  which was  acquired in September
2000,  and the Junior  Juice(r)  trademark,  which was acquired in May 2001. The
Company  amortizes its trademark license and trademarks over 1 to 25 years. Upon
the adoption of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 142,
the Company ceased the amortization of indefinite life assets.

     Long-Lived Assets - Management regularly reviews property and equipment and
other  long-lived  assets,  including  certain  identifiable  intangibles,   for
possible impairment.  This review occurs annually,  or more frequently if events
or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be
recoverable.  If there is  indication of impairment of property and equipment or
amortizable  intangible assets,  then management  prepares an estimate of future
cash flows  (undiscounted  and without interest charges) expected to result from
the use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If these cash flows are less
than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized to write
down the asset to its estimated  fair value.  The fair value is estimated at the
present value of the future cash flows  discounted at a rate  commensurate  with
management's  estimates of the business risks. Annually, or earlier, if there is
indication  of  impairment  of  identified  intangible  assets  not  subject  to
amortization,  management  compares the  estimated  fair value with the carrying
amount  of the  asset.  An  impairment  loss is  recognized  to  write  down the
intangible  asset to its  fair  value if it is less  than the  carrying  amount.
Preparation of estimated expected future cash flows is inherently subjective and
is based on management's best estimate of assumptions concerning expected future
conditions.  During 2004,  management  recognized  an impairment to property and
equipment as discussed in Note 3.

     Revenue  Recognition - The Company  records revenue at the time the related
products are shipped and the risk of ownership and title has passed.  Management
believes an  adequate  provision  against net sales has been made for  estimated
returns,  allowances  and  cash  discounts  based  on the  Company's  historical
experience.

     Freight  Costs and  Reimbursement  of Freight  Costs - In  accordance  with
Emerging  Issues Task Force  ("EITF")  No.  00-10,  Accounting  for Shipping and
Handling Fees and Costs,  reimbursements  of freight charges are recorded in net
sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. For the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,  freight-out  costs amounted to $10.7 million,
$7.0 million and $5.8 million,  respectively, and have been recorded in selling,
general and administrative expenses in the accompanying  consolidated statements
of income.

     Advertising  and  Promotional   Allowances  -  The  Company   accounts  for
advertising  production  costs by expensing such production costs the first time
the related  advertising  takes place.  Advertising  expenses  amounted to $11.5
million,  $8.8 million and $7.3  million for the years ended  December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002,  respectively.  Advertising  expenses  were  included in selling,
general and administrative  expenses with the exception of coupon expenses which
were included as a reduction of net sales. In addition, the Company supports its
customers,  including distributors,  with promotional  allowances,  a portion of
which is utilized for  marketing  and indirect  advertising  by them. In certain
instances, a portion of the promotional allowances payable to customers is based
on the levels of sales to such customers. Promotion requirements or expected use
of the  allowances,  are  estimated  by the  Company.  If the  level  of  sales,
promotion  requirements  or  use of  the  allowances  are  different  from  such
estimates,  the promotional  allowances could, to the extent based on estimates,
require  adjustments.  Such  promotional  allowances  amounted to $35.5 million,
$17.2 million and $13.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,  2003 and
2002,  respectively  and were included in discounts,  allowances and promotional
payments.


                                       57
<PAGE>

     Income Taxes - The Company  accounts for income taxes under the  provisions
of SFAS No. 109,  Accounting  for Income  Taxes.  This  statement  requires  the
recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities  for the future  consequences
of events that have been recognized in the Company's financial statements or tax
returns.  Measurement of the deferred items is based on enacted tax laws. In the
event the future  consequences of differences  between financial reporting bases
and tax bases of the Company's  assets and liabilities  result in a deferred tax
asset,  SFAS No. 109 requires an evaluation of the  probability of being able to
realize  the future  benefits  indicated  by such asset.  A valuation  allowance
related to a deferred tax asset is recorded when it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

     Stock-Based  Compensation - The Company accounts for its stock option plans
in  accordance  with  Accounting   Principles  Board  ("APB")  Opinion  No.  25,
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations. Under APB
Opinion No. 25, no compensation expense is recognized because the exercise price
of  the  Company's  employee  stock  options  equals  the  market  price  of the
underlying  stock at the date of the grant.  In  December  2002,  the  Financial
Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued  SFAS  No.  148,  Accounting  for
Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No.
123, Accounting for Stock-based Compensation, and was effective immediately upon
issuance.  The Company  follows the  requirements  of APB Opinion No. 25 and the
disclosure-only  provision  of SFAS No.  123,  as amended by SFAS No.  148.  Had
compensation  cost for the Company's  option plans been determined  based on the
fair value at the grant date for awards  consistent  with the provisions of SFAS
No. 123, the  Company's net income and net income per common share for the years
ended  December  31,  2004 and 2003  would  have been  reduced  to the pro forma
amounts indicated below:

                                         2004            2003           2002
                                         ----            ----           ----

Net income, as reported              $20,386,804     $5,930,404      $3,029,195
Less: total stock-based employee
      compensation expense
      determined under fair value
      based method for all awards,
      net of related tax effects         356,156        216,250         212,363
                                   -------------   ------------     -----------
Net income, pro forma                $20,030,648     $5,714,154      $2,816,832
                                   =============   ============     ===========

Net income per common share,
      as reported:
         Basic                       $      1.91     $     0.58      $      0.30
         Diluted                     $      1.73     $     0.55      $      0.29


Net income per common share,
      pro forma:
         Basic                       $      1.88     $     0.56      $      0.28
         Diluted                     $      1.70     $     0.53      $      0.27

     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with the  following  weighted-average
assumptions used:

                                                 Risk-Free
        Dividend Yield   Expected Volatility   Interest Rate    Expected Lives
        --------------   -------------------   --------------   --------------
2004          0%                 46%                4.0%           8 years
2003          0%                 12%                3.5%           8 years
2002          0%                 8%                 4.6%           6 years

     Net Income Per Common Share - In accordance with SFAS No. 128, Earnings per
Share,  net income per common share,  on a basic and diluted basis, is presented
for all  periods.  Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding.  Diluted net income
per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted  average  number of
common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding,  if dilutive. Weighted
average  common  equivalent  shares  include  stock options and purchases of the
Company's common stock, held in treasury, using the treasury stock method.

                                       58
<PAGE>

     Concentration  Risk - Certain of the Company's  products utilize components
(raw materials and/or co-packing  services) from a limited number of sources.  A
disruption  in the  supply of such  components  could  significantly  affect the
Company's  revenues  from  those  products,   as  alternative  sources  of  such
components  may not be available at  commercially  reasonable  rates or within a
reasonably short time period.  The Company continues to take steps on an ongoing
basis to secure the availability of alternative  sources for such components and
minimize the risk of any disruption in production.

     One customer  accounted for  approximately 8%, 15% and 18% of the Company's
sales for the years ended  December 31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  respectively.  A
decision by that, or any other major customer,  to decrease the amount purchased
from the  Company  or to cease  carrying  the  Company's  products  could have a
material  adverse effect on the Company's  financial  condition and consolidated
results of operations.

     During 2004, 2003 and 2002,  sales outside of California  represented  56%,
47% and 42% of the aggregate sales of the Company, respectively.

     Credit Risk - The  Company  sells its  products  nationally,  primarily  to
retailers  and  beverage  distributors.  The  Company  performs  ongoing  credit
evaluations  of its  customers and generally  does not require  collateral.  The
Company maintains reserves for estimated credit losses,  and historically,  such
losses have been within management's expectations.

     Fair Value of Financial  Instruments  - At December 31, 2004 and 2003,  the
carrying values of cash,  accounts  receivable and accounts payable  approximate
fair  value  because  of the  short  maturity  of these  financial  instruments.
Long-term debt bears interest at a rate comparable to the prime rate; therefore,
management  believes  the  carrying  amount for the  outstanding  borrowings  at
December 31, 2004 approximates fair value.

     Use of Estimates - The preparation of the consolidated financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     Segment Information - The Company's operating segments have been aggregated
into one reportable segment due to similarities of the economic  characteristics
and nature of  operations  among the  operations  represented  by the  Company's
various product lines.

     Change in Accounting for Goodwill and Other  Intangible  Assets - Effective
January 1, 2002, the Company  adopted the  provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill
and Other  Intangible  Assets.  This statement  discontinued the amortization of
goodwill and indefinite-lived  intangible assets, subject to periodic impairment
testing.  Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company  evaluated the useful lives
of its various  trademark  licenses and trademarks and concluded that certain of
the  trademark  licenses  and  trademarks  have  indefinite  lives.  Unamortized
trademark  licenses and trademarks  deemed to have indefinite lives ceased to be
amortized  effective  January  1,  2002 and are  subject  to  annual  impairment
analysis.

     As of December 31, 2003 and 2004,  the  trademark  licenses and  trademarks
were tested for  impairment in accordance  with the  provisions of SFAS No. 142.
Fair values were estimated  based on the Company's best estimate of the expected
present value of future cash flows. No amounts were impaired at those times. The
following provides  additional  information  concerning the Company's  trademark
licenses and trademarks as of December 31:

                                       59
<PAGE>

                                       2004                2003
                                       ----                ----
Amortizing trademark licenses
 and trademarks                   $  1,169,248        $  1,155,803
Accumulated amortization              (219,264)           (146,218)
                                  -------------       -------------
                                       949,984           1,009,585
Nonamortizing trademark
 licenses and trademarks            17,401,820          17,284,119
                                  -------------       -------------
                                   $18,351,804         $18,293,704
                                  =============       =============

     All  amortizing  trademark  licenses and  trademarks  have been assigned an
estimated  finite useful life, and are amortized on a  straight-line  basis over
the number of years that approximate  their respective useful lives ranging from
1 to 25 years  (weighted-average  life of 23 years). The straight-line method of
amortization  allocates  the cost of the  trademark  licenses and  trademarks to
earnings over the period of expected benefit.  Total amortization expense during
the year ended  December 31, 2004 was $73,046.  As of December 31, 2004,  future
estimated  amortization  expense  related to amortizing  trademark  licenses and
trademarks through the year ended December 31, 2009 is:

                        2005                    $55,214
                        2006                     55,214
                        2007                     55,214
                        2008                     55,066
                        2009                     55,066

     Newly Issued  Accounting  Pronouncements  - In November  2004,  FASB issued
statement of Financial  Accounting  Standard No. 151, "Inventory Costs". The new
Statement  amends  Accounting  Research  Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4,  "Inventory
Pricing,"  to clarify  the  accounting  for  abnormal  amounts of idle  facility
expense,  freight,  handling costs, and wasted material. This Statement requires
that those items be  recognized  as  current-period  charges and  requires  that
allocation of fixed  production  overheads to the cost of conversion be based on
the normal  capacity of the production  facilities.  This statement is effective
for fiscal  years  beginning  after June 15,  2005.  The Company does not expect
adoption of this statement to have a material impact on our financial  condition
or results of operations.

     In December  2004,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary
Assets  - An  Amendment  of APB  Opinion  No.  29,  Accounting  for  Nonmonetary
Transactions.  This  statement  amends  APB  Opinion  No.  29 to  eliminate  the
exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it
with a general  exception for exchanges of  nonmonetary  assets that do not have
commercial  substance.  A nonmonetary  exchange has commercial  substance if the
future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result
of the exchange.  The  provision in SFAS No. 153 are  effective for  nonmonetary
asset exchanges  incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The
Company is currently evaluating the effect, if any, of adopting SFAS No. 153.

     In December 2004, FASB issued Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
No. 123 (revised  2004),  Share-Based  Payment.  This  Statement  replaces  FASB
Statement No. 123 and supersedes  APB Opinion No. 25.  Statement No. 123(R) will
require the fair value of all stock  option  awards  issued to  employees  to be
recorded as an expense  over the related  vesting  period.  The  Statement  also
requires  the  recognition  of  compensation  expense  for the fair value of any
unvested stock option awards outstanding at the date of adoption.  This standard
is effective  for the company as of July 1, 2005.  Management  has not completed
their evaluation of the effect of these new rules on future statements.

                                       60
<PAGE>

2. INVENTORIES

Inventories consist of the following at December 31:

                                     2004             2003
                                     ----             ----
Raw materials                    $ 7,204,741      $ 6,979,701
Finished goods                    16,157,000       11,900,304
                                 -----------      -----------
                                  23,361,741       18,880,005
Less inventory reserves             (955,687)      (1,236,219)
                                 -----------      -----------
                                 $22,406,054      $17,643,786
                                 ===========      ===========

3. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property and equipment consist of the following at December 31:


                                     2004             2003
                                     ----             ----
Leasehold improvements           $   268,068      $   230,027
Furniture and office equipment     1,193,741          881,741
Equipment                          1,488,571        2,481,917
Vehicles                           2,359,264        1,636,878
                                 -----------      -----------
                                   5,309,644        5,230,563
Less accumulated depreciation
and amortization                  (2,345,580)      (2,427,281)
                                 -----------      -----------
                                 $ 2,964,064      $ 2,803,282
                                 ===========      ===========

     A portion of the  equipment  owned by the Company is comprised of equipment
and  machinery  that was  utilized  on a can line  operated  by a third party to
manufacture certain products,  who subsequently  ceased operations.  At December
31, 2004, such equipment and machinery was idle and management had not finalized
its review of  alternatives  regarding the use thereof in  prospective  periods.
Accordingly,  such equipment and machinery is included in Property and Equipment
as idle. Based on management's  assessment of the marketplace for this equipment
and  machinery  with advice from an  independent  equipment  broker,  management
recorded  an  impairment  charge  in cost of sales of  $587,876  to  reduce  the
carrying cost of this asset to its fair value of $232,308.  If the equipment and
machinery is reinstated  or  refurbished,  management  will amortize the reduced
carrying value over an estimate of its productive life when placed in service.


4. DEBT

     HBC has a  credit  facility  from  Comerica  Bank-California  ("Comerica"),
consisting of a revolving line of credit and a term loan. Such revolving line of
credit  and term  loan  were  secured  by  substantially  all of  HBC's  assets,
including accounts  receivable,  inventory,  trademarks,  trademark licenses and
certain equipment. In accordance with the provisions of the credit facility, HBC
can borrow up to $6.0 million under its revolving line of credit.  The revolving
line of credit remains in full force and effect through September 2005. Interest
on borrowings under the line of credit is based on the bank's base (prime) rate,
plus  an  additional  percentage  of up to  0.5%  or the  LIBOR  rate,  plus  an
additional  percentage of up to 2.5%, depending upon certain financial ratios of
the Company. The Company had no outstanding  borrowings on the line of credit at
December 31, 2004.

     On March 1, 2005,  the  Company  entered  into an  amendment  of its credit
facility with Comerica in terms of which HBC can borrow up to $7.8 million under
its revolving line of credit. Under the amendment,  the revolving line of credit
remains in full force and effect  through June 1, 2006.  Interest on  borrowings
under  the line of  credit  varies  depending  on a  predetermined  ratio of the
Company's funded senior debt to Earnings Before Interest Taxes  Depreciation and
Amortization.  The  current  rate of  interest is prime minus 1.5% or the 30 day
LIBOR rate plus 1.25%.

                                       61
<PAGE>

     The  terms  of the  Company's  line of  credit  contain  certain  financial
covenants including certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with
its covenants at December 31, 2004.

     During 2000,  the Company  entered into capital  leases for  acquisition of
certain  vehicles,  payable  over a  five-year  period and  having an  effective
interest rate of 8.8%.  During 2004, the Company entered into capital leases for
acquisition  of certain  vehicles,  payable over a 12 month period and having an
average effective interest rate of 5.4%.

     Long-term debt consists of the following
     at December 31:

                                                     2004             2003
                                                     ----             ----
     Note payable to Pasco Juices, Inc.,
     collateralized by the Junior Juice
     trademark, payable in quarterly
     installments of varying amounts
     through May 2006, net of unamortized
     discount (based on imputed interest
     rate of 4.5%) of $13,329 and $29,547
     at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
     respectively                                 $ 267,390         $ 392,263

     Capital leases, collateralized by
     vehicles acquired, payable over 60
     months in monthly  installments at an
     effective interest rate of 8.8%,
     with final payments ending in 2005              86,828           210,072

     Capital leases, collateralized by
     vehicles acquired,  payable over 12
     months in monthly  installments at an
     average effective  interest rate of 5.4%,
     with final payments ending in 2005             229,634              -
                                                   ---------        ----------
                                                    583,852           602,335
Less: current portion of
 long-term debt                                    (437,366)         (244,271)
                                                 -----------        ----------
                                                  $ 146,486         $ 358,064
                                                 ===========        ==========

Long-term debt is payable as follows:

                           Year ending December 31:

                        2005                      $ 437,366
                        2006                        146,486
                                                   ---------
                                                  $ 583,852
                                                   =========

     At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the assets acquired under capital leases had
a net book value of $379,775 and $121,178,  net of accumulated  depreciation  of
$518,988 and $418,465, respectively.

     Interest  expense  amounted to $35,988,  $66,592 and $224,748 for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

                                       62
<PAGE>

5. EARNINGS PER SHARE

     A  reconciliation  of the  weighted  average  shares  used in the basic and
diluted  earnings  per common share  computations  for the three and years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 is presented below:

                                                     2004              2003
                                               ---------------   ---------------
     Weighted-average shares outstanding:
         Weighted-average shares outstanding -
              Basic                                10,666,892        10,278,710
              Dilutive securities                   1,143,048           483,447
                                               ---------------   ---------------

         Weighted-average shares outstanding -
              Diluted                              11,809,940        10,762,157
                                               ===============   ===============

     For the  years  ended  December  31,  2004 and  2003,  options  outstanding
totaling  34,500  and  20,000  shares  respectively,   were  excluded  from  the
calculations, as their effect would have been antidilutive.

6. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Operating Leases - The Company leases its warehouse  facility and corporate
offices under a 10 year lease  beginning  October  2000,  when the Company first
occupied  the  facility.  The  facility  lease and certain  equipment  and other
noncancelable  operating  leases  expire  through 2010.  The facility  lease has
scheduled rent increases which are accounted for on a straight-line  basis. Rent
expense under such leases amounted to $965,730,  $660,616,  and $643,827 for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In January 2004, the
Company entered into a lease for additional  warehouse space. This lease expires
in March 2008 with an option to renew through 2010.

     Future  minimum  rental  payments  at  December  31,  2004 under the leases
referred to above are as follows:

                Year ending December 31:
                2005                            $     980,473
                2006                                1,027,242
                2007                                1,040,332
                2008                                  775,683
                2009                                  685,560
                Thereafter                            514,170
                                                 ------------
                                                 $  5,023,460
                                                 ============

     Purchase  Commitments  - The Company has purchase  commitments  aggregating
approximately  $17,735,238,  which represent commitments made by the Company and
its subsidiaries to various suppliers of raw materials for the manufacturing and
packaging of its products. These obligations vary in terms.

     Advertising  Commitment - In March 2003,  HBC entered  into an  advertising
display  agreement  ("Monorail  Agreement")  with the Las Vegas Monorail Company
("LVMC") in terms of which HBC was granted the right,  in  consideration  of the
payment by HBC to LVMC of the sum of $1,000,000 per year, payable quarterly,  to
advertise and promote its products on a designated four car monorail  vehicle as
well as the right to sell certain of its  products on all monorail  stations for
payment of additional consideration.

     The initial term of the  Monorail  Agreement  commenced  in July 2004.  The
initial  term of the Monorail  Agreement  ends on the first  anniversary  of its
commencement  date.  However  due  to  interruptions  in the  operations  of the
Monorail,  it is  likely  the  commencement  date of the  initial  term  will be
extended.  Not less than 120 days before the  expiration of the initial term and
each renewal  term,  as the case may be, HBC has the right to renew the Monorail
Agreement  for a further  one year term up to a maximum of nine  additional  one
year terms and the LVMC has the right,  notwithstanding such election by HBC, to
terminate the Monorail Agreement at the expiration of the then current term.

                                       63
<PAGE>

     Licensing Agreements - The Company produces,  sells and distributes Lost(r)
Energy  drinks  under an  exclusive  license  with Lost  International  LLC. The
license  agreement  requires  certain royalty payments to be made related to the
sale of Lost(r) brand products.

     Employment and Consulting Agreements - On June 1, 2003, the Company entered
into an  employment  agreement  with  Rodney C. Sacks and  Hilton H.  Schlosberg
pursuant to which Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg render services to the Company as
its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  and its Vice Chairman,  President and
Chief Financial Officer, respectively. The agreements provide for an annual base
salary of $230,000 each for the 7 months ended December 31, 2003,  increasing to
$245,000 for the year ending December 31, 2004 and increasing by a minimum of 5%
for each  subsequent  twelve-month  period  during  the  employment  period.  In
addition,  the agreement provides for an annual bonus in an amount determined at
the  discretion  of the Board of  Directors  of the  Company  as well as certain
fringe  benefits for the period  commencing June 1, 2003 and ending December 31,
2008.

     Litigation  - The  Company  is  subject  to, and  involved  in,  claims and
contingencies  related to lawsuits and other  matters  arising out of the normal
course of  business.  The  ultimate  liability  associated  with such claims and
contingencies,  if any, is not likely to have a material  adverse  effect on the
financial condition of the Company.

     In  September  2004  Barrington  Capital  Corporation  through  an  alleged
successor in interest,  Sandburg Financial  Corporation (both entities with whom
the Company has never had any dealings) served a Notice of Motion  ("Motion") on
the  Company  and  each of its  subsidiaries  as well as on a  number  of  other
unrelated entities and individuals. The Motion seeks to amend a default judgment
granted against a completely unconnected company, Hansen Foods, Inc., to add the
Company  and  its  subsidiary  companies,  as  well as the  other  entities  and
individuals  cited,  as judgment  debtors.  The default  judgment was entered on
February 15, 1996, for $7,626,000 plus legal interest and attorneys' fees in the
sum of  $211,000  arising  out of a breach  of  contract  claim  that  allegedly
occurred  in the 1980's.  Barrington  Capital  Corporation's/Sandburg  Financial
Corporation's claim is based on the misconceived and unsubstantiated theory that
the Company and its  subsidiaries  are alter egos  and/or  successors  of Hansen
Foods,  Inc. The Motion is based on demonstrably  false  allegations,  misstated
legal propositions and lacks any substantial  supporting  evidence.  The Company
and its subsidiaries intend to vigorously oppose the Motion and believe that the
Motion is without any merit. The Company does not believe the Motion will have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.

     Guarantees  - The Company  from time to time enters into  certain  types of
contracts that  contingently  require the Company to indemnify  parties  against
third party claims.  These contracts primarily relate to: (i) certain agreements
with the Company's officers, directors and employees under which the Company may
be required to  indemnify  such  persons  for  liabilities  arising out of their
employment relationship,  (ii) certain distribution or purchase agreements under
which the Company may have to indemnify the Company's  customers from any claim,
liability  or loss  arising  out of any  actual or  alleged  injury  or  damages
suffered  in  connection  with the  consumption  or  purchase  of the  Company's
products,  and (iii) certain real estate leases,  under which the Company may be
required to indemnify  property  owners for liabilities and other claims arising
from the Company's use of the applicable premises.

     The terms of such obligations vary. Generally,  a maximum obligation is not
explicitly  stated.  Because the obligated  amounts of these types of agreements
often are not explicitly  stated,  the overall maximum amount of the obligations
cannot be reasonably estimated. Further, the Company believes that its insurance
coverage  is  adequate to cover any  liabilities  or claims  arising out of such
instances referred to above. Historically, the Company has not been obligated to
make significant payments for these obligations and accordingly, the Company has
valued these obligations at $0 on its consolidated balance sheets as of December
31, 2004 and 2003.

                                       64
<PAGE>

7. INCOME TAXES

Components of the income tax provision are as follows:

                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                2004            2003            2002
                                ----            ----            ----
Current income taxes:
  Federal                    $11,305,019    $  3,386,946     $ 1,173,693
  State                        2,418,917         802,256         339,825
                             ------------   -------------    ------------
                              13,723,936       4,189,202       1,513,518
Deferred income taxes:
  Federal                       (218,967)       (290,357)        448,239
  State                           46,424         (70,167)         74,223
                             ------------   -------------     -----------
                                (172,543)       (360,524)        522,462
                             ------------   -------------     -----------
                             $13,551,393    $  3,828,678     $ 2,035,980
                             ============   =============     ===========

     The  differences  between the income tax  provision  that would result from
applying the 35% federal  statutory  rate to income before  provision for income
taxes and the reported provision for income taxes are as follows:

                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                  2004           2003             2002
                                  ----           ----             ----
Income tax provision
  using the statutory rate    $11,878,369   $  3,318,088     $ 1,722,160
State taxes, net of federal
  tax benefit                   1,602,471        521,475         267,440
Permanent differences              74,374         39,895          46,380
Rate change                        23,735           -               -
Other                             (27,556)       (50,780)
                               -----------  -------------    ------------
                              $13,551,393   $  3,828,678     $ 2,035,980
                              ============  =============    ============

     Major  components of the  Company's  deferred tax assets  (liabilities)  at
December 31 are as follows:

                                                  2004              2003
                                                  ----              ----
Reserves for returns                        $    385,371     $     98,556
Reserves for doubtful accounts                    45,838           93,623
Reserves for obsolescence                        410,945          519,212
Reserves for marketing development fund        1,542,576          754,517
Capitalization of inventory costs                199,462          169,317
State franchise tax                            1,014,799          348,351
Accrued compensation                             109,951           47,433
Amortization of graphic design                      -             297,760
Other accrued expenses                              -              54,602
                                            -------------    ------------
     Total deferred tax asset                  3,708,942        2,378,371

Amortization of trademark license             (3,857,784)      (3,160,401)
Depreciation                                    (583,708)        (245,010)
Amortization of graphic design                  (121,947)            -
                                            -------------    ------------
     Total deferred tax liability             (4,563,439)      (3,405,411)
                                            -------------    ------------
          Net deferred tax liability        $   (854,497)    $ (1,027,040)
                                            =============    ============

     The Company  believes it has adequately  provided for income tax issues not
yet resolved with state tax  authorities.  At December 31, 2004,  $394,597,  was
accrued for such matters.  Although not probable, the most adverse resolution of
these issues could result in additional  charges to earnings in future  periods.
Upon consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Company does not
believe  the  ultimate  resolution  of these tax issues for all open tax periods
will have a material  adverse effect upon its results of operations or financial
condition.


                                       65
<PAGE>

8. STOCK OPTIONS

     The Company has three stock option plans,  the Hansen  Natural  Corporation
2001 Stock Option Plan ("2001 Option Plan"), the Employee Stock Option Plan (the
"Plan") and the Outside Directors Stock Option Plan ("Directors Plan").

     During 2001,  the Company  adopted the 2001 Option Plan which  provides for
the grant of options to purchase up to  2,000,000  shares of the common stock of
the  Company to certain  key  employees  of the  Company  and its  subsidiaries.
Options  granted under the 2001 Option Plan may be incentive stock options under
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code"),  nonqualified
stock options,  or stock appreciation  rights.  Stock options are exercisable at
such time and in such amounts as determined by the Compensation Committee of the
Board of  Directors  of the Company up to a ten-year  period after their date of
grant. As of December 31, 2004,  options to purchase  1,227,100 shares of Hansen
common stock had been granted under the 2001 Option Plan and options to purchase
772,900 shares of Hansen common stock remain  available for grant under the 2001
Option Plan.

     The Plan, as amended,  provided for the granting of options to purchase not
more than  3,000,000  shares  of Hansen  common  stock to key  employees  of the
Company and its subsidiaries through July 1, 2001. Stock options are exercisable
at such time and in such amounts as determined by the Compensation  Committee of
the Board of Directors  of the Company up to a ten-year  period after their date
of grant,  and no options may be granted  after July 1, 2001.  The option  price
will not be less than the fair market value at the date of grant. As of December
31, 2004,  options to purchase  2,095,700 shares of Hansen common stock had been
granted under the Plan, net of options that have expired.

     The  Directors  Plan  provides  for the grant of options to  purchase up to
100,000  shares of common  stock of the Company to  directors of the Company who
are not and have not been employed by or acted as consultants to the Company and
its  subsidiaries  or affiliates  and who are not and have not been nominated to
the Board of Directors of the Company (the  "Board")  pursuant to a  contractual
arrangement.  On the date of the  annual  meeting of  shareholders,  at which an
eligible  director is initially  elected,  each eligible director is entitled to
receive a one-time grant of an option to purchase 6,000 shares (12,000 shares if
the  director is serving on a committee  of the Board) of the  Company's  common
stock,  exercisable one-third each on the first, second and third anniversary of
the date of grant;  provided,  however,  that options granted as of February 14,
1995,  are  exercisable  66 2/3% on the date of grant and 100% on July 8,  1995;
provided,  further,  that all options held by an eligible  director become fully
and  immediately  exercisable  upon a change in control of the Company.  Options
granted under the Directors  Plan that are not  exercised  generally  expire ten
years  after the date of grant.  Option  grants may be made under the  Directors
Plan for ten years from the effective date of the Directors  Plan. The Directors
Plan is a "formula" plan so that a nonemployee  director's  participation in the
Directors  Plan does not  affect  his  status as a  "disinterested  person"  (as
defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). As of December
31,  2004,  options to purchase  48,000  shares of Hansen  common stock had been
granted under the Directors Plan and options to purchase 52,000 shares of Hansen
common stock remained available for grant.

     During the years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  the  Company
granted  371,000,  355,000 and 529,500 options to purchase shares under the 2001
Option Plan and the Directors Plan at a  weighted-average  grant date fair value
of $6.68, $1.27 and $1.12,  respectively.  Additional  information regarding the
plans is as follows:

                                       66
<PAGE>

                          2004                 2003                 2002
                  -------------------- -------------------- --------------------
                            Weighted-            Weighted-             Weighted-
                             average              average               average
                            exercise              exercise              exercise
                  Shares      price     Shares      price    Shares       price
                  -------------------- -------------------- --------------------
Options
  outstanding,
  beginning
  of year         1,469,800   $ 3.87   1,501,900    $3.29   1,053,400    $3.04
Options granted     371,000   $11.39     355,000    $4.43     529,500    $3.64
Options
  exercised        (495,000)  $ 3.47    (365,100)   $2.05      (8,000)   $1.00
Options
  canceled
  or expired        (47,400)  $ 6.02     (22,000)   $3.53     (73,000)   $2.54
                  -------------------- -------------------- --------------------
Options
  outstanding,
  end of year     1,298,400   $ 6.09   1,469,800    $3.87   1,501,900    $3.29
Option
  price range
  end of year                 $ 3.02                $1.13                $1.00
                                to                    to                   to
                              $32.50                $8.23                $5.25

     The following table summarizes  information about fixed-price stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2004:
------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------
                      Options Outstanding                   Options Exercisable
------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------
                                Weighted-
                   Number        average                  Number
                outstanding     remaining    Weighted-  exercisable    Weighted-
Range of             at         contractual   average       at         average
exercise        December 31,       life      exercise   December 31,   exercise
prices              2004        (in years)     price        2004          price
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$ 3.02 to $ 3.95    379,900         7         $ 3.60       30,600        $3.57
$ 4.05 to $ 5.25    549,500         7           4.24      277,500         4.26
$ 8.11 to $ 8.23    272,500         9           8.15        2,000         8.23
$10.32 to $18.17     62,000         9          16.77         -             -
$25.01 to $32.50     34,500         8          27.33         -             -
                  ----------                             ---------
                  1,298,400                               310,100
                  ==========                             =========


9. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

     Employees  of Hansen  Natural  Corporation  may  participate  in the Hansen
Natural  Corporation  401(k) Plan, a defined  contribution plan, which qualifies
under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Participating  employees may
contribute up to 15% of their pretax salary up to statutory limits.  The Company
contributes  25% of  the  employee  contribution,  up to 8% of  each  employee's
earnings. Matching contributions were $98,494, $70,518 and $64,949 for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

10. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     A director of the Company is a partner in a law firm that serves as counsel
to the Company and was a partner in another law firm that  previously  served as
counsel to the Company.  Expenses  incurred in connection with services rendered
by such firms to the Company during the years ended December 31, 2004,  2003 and
2002 were $173,878, $59,146 and $79,843, respectively.

                                       67
<PAGE>

     Two directors and officers of the Company are principal owners of a company
that provides  promotional  materials to the Company.  Expenses incurred to such
company in connection  with  promotional  materials  purchased  during the years
ended  December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002 were  $638,590,  $331,478 and $164,199,
respectively.

11.     QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)

<TABLE>
<S>                 <C>              <C>               <C>                <C>         <C>



                                                                             Net Income per
                                                                              Common Share
                                                                          --------------------
                      Net Sales       Gross Profit       Net Income         Basic     Diluted
                    --------------   --------------    -------------      ---------   --------
Quarter ended:
  March 31, 2004     $ 31,298,783     $ 13,907,821      $ 2,183,281        $ 0.21      $ 0.19
  June 30, 2004        46,063,543       20,758,929        5,078,149          0.48        0.43
  September 30, 2004   52,641,477       23,809,208        5,798,648          0.54        0.49
  December 31, 2004    50,337,332       24,990,427        7,326,726          0.68        0.62
                    --------------   --------------    -------------      ---------  ---------
                     $180,341,135     $ 83,466,385      $20,386,804        $ 1.91      $ 1.73
                    ==============   ==============    =============      =========  =========

Quarter ended:
  March 31, 2003     $ 22,086,348     $  8,299,821      $   633,071        $ 0.06      $ 0.06
  June 30, 2003        28,409,138       11,448,565        1,977,184          0.19        0.19
  September 30, 2003   33,291,088       13,286,852        2,093,835          0.21        0.19
  December 31, 2003    26,565,622       10,739,790        1,226,314          0.12        0.11
                    --------------   --------------    -------------      --------   ---------
                     $110,352,196     $ 43,775,028      $ 5,930,404        $ 0.58      $ 0.55
                    ==============   ==============    =============      ========   =========

</TABLE>

     Certain of the figures  reported above may differ from previously  reported
figures for individual quarters due to rounding.

                                       68
<PAGE>

HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004, 2003 AND 2002


               Balance at   Charged to                      Balance at
               beginning     cost and                         end of
Description    of period     expenses        Deductions       period
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allowance for doubtful accounts, sales returns and cash discounts:

2004          $  875,351      3,585,153      (3,208,403)     $1,252,101
2003          $1,098,645      2,936,429      (3,159,723)     $  875,351
2002          $  625,270      3,108,031      (2,634,656)     $1,098,645

Promotional allowances:

2004          $4,666,770     29,939,960     (28,336,986)     $6,269,744
2003          $3,170,171     15,139,959     (13,643,360)     $4,666,770
2002          $2,981,556     12,660,386     (12,471,771)     $3,170,171

Inventory reserves:

2004          $1,236,219        184,472        (465,004)     $  955,687
2003          $  646,439        589,780            -         $1,236,219
2002          $  400,767        269,530         (23,858)     $  646,439

                                       69
<PAGE>

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in  Registration  Statements  No.
33-92526,  No.  333-41333,  No.  333-89123 and No.  333-112482 of Hansen Natural
Corporation  on Form S-8 of our report  dated  March 14,  2005,  relating to the
consolidated  financial  statements and financial  statement  schedule of Hansen
Natural Corporation and subsidiaries and management's report on internal control
over financial  reporting  appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Hansen
Natural Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2004.



/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Costa Mesa, California
March 14, 2005

                                       70
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
