 10-Q 1 corpq32015.htm 10-Q     10-Q  UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C. 20549FORM 10-QQuarterly report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) ofthe Securities Exchange Act of 1934For the quarterly period endedCommission fileSeptember 30, 2015number 1-5805JPMorgan Chase & Co.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware13-2624428(State or other jurisdiction ofincorporation or organization)(I.R.S. employeridentification no.)  270 Park Avenue, New York, New York10017(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)  Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (212) 270-6000Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.x  Yeso NoIndicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).x  Yeso NoIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large accelerated filer  xAccelerated filer  o  Non-accelerated filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  oSmaller reporting company  oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).o  Yesx  No Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of September 30, 2015: 3,681,129,777  FORM 10-QTABLE OF CONTENTSPart I - Financial informationPageItem 1Consolidated Financial Statements   JPMorgan Chase & Co.:  Consolidated statements of income (unaudited) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 201486 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income (unaudited) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 201487 Consolidated balance sheets (unaudited) at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 201488 Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders  equity (unaudited) for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 201489 Consolidated statements of cash flows (unaudited) for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, and 201490 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)91 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm175 Consolidated Average Balance Sheets, Interest and Rates (unaudited) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014176 Glossary of Terms and Line of Business Metrics178Item 2Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:  Consolidated Financial Highlights3 Introduction4 Executive Overview5 Consolidated Results of Operations7 Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis10 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements12 Consolidated Cash Flows Analysis13 Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures14 Business Segment Results17 Enterprise-Wide Risk Management46 Credit Risk Management47 Market Risk Management63 Country Risk Management67 Operational Risk Management68 Capital Management69 Liquidity Risk Management76 Supervision and Regulation80 Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm81 Accounting and Reporting Developments84 Forward-Looking Statements85Item 3Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk185Item 4Controls and Procedures185Part II - Other information Item 1Legal Proceedings185Item 1ARisk Factors185Item 2Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds185Item 3Defaults Upon Senior Securities186Item 4Mine Safety Disclosure186Item 5Other Information186Item 6Exhibits1862JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated financial highlightsNote: Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for investments in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively and accordingly, certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. For additional information, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 14 16, as well as Accounting and Reporting Developments on page 84 and Note 1.(a)Share prices shown for JPMorgan Chase s common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange.(b)TBVPS and ROTCE are non-GAAP financial measures. For further discussion of these measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 14 16.(c)HQLA represents the amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in the liquidity coverage ratio under the final U.S. rule ( U.S. LCR ) for 3Q15, 2Q15 and 1Q15 as well as the estimated amount as of 4Q14 and 3Q14, prior to the effective date of the final rule. For additional information, see HQLA on page 76.(d)Ratios presented are calculated under the transitional rules of the Basel Committee s most recent capital framework ( Basel III ) and represent the Collins Floor. See Regulatory capital on pages 69 73 for additional information on Basel III.(g)Excluded the impact of residential real estate PCI loans, a non-GAAP financial measure. For further discussion of these measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 14 16. For further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 60 62.3INTRODUCTIONThe following is management s discussion and analysis ( MD&A ) of the financial condition and results of operations of JPMorgan Chase & Co. ( JPMorgan Chase  or the  Firm ) for the third quarter of 2015. This Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with JPMorgan Chase s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( 2014 Annual Report  or  2014 Form 10-K ), to which reference is hereby made. See the Glossary of terms on pages 178 181 for definitions of terms used throughout this Form 10-Q.The MD&A included in this Form 10-Q contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For a discussion of those risks and uncertainties and the factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase s actual results to differ materially because of those risks and uncertainties, see Forward-looking Statements on page 85 of this Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 8 17 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America ( U.S. ), with operations worldwide; the Firm had $2.4 trillion in assets and $245.7 billion in stockholders  equity as of September 30, 2015. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small  businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world s most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ( JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 23 states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association ( Chase Bank USA, N.A. ), a national banking association that is the Firm s credit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC ( JPMorgan Securities ), the Firm s U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. One of the Firm s principal operating subsidiaries in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For management reporting purposes, the Firm s activities are organized into four major reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm s consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking ( CCB ) segment. The Corporate & Investment Bank ( CIB ), Commercial Banking ( CB ), and Asset Management ( AM ) segments comprise the Firm s wholesale businesses. For a description of the Firm s business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases, refer to Note 33 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.4EXECUTIVE OVERVIEWThis executive overview of the MD&A highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Form 10-Q. For a complete description of the trends and uncertainties, as well as the risks and critical accounting estimates affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Form 10-Q should be read in its entirety.(a)Ratios presented are calculated under the transitional Basel III rules and represent the Collins Floor. See Regulatory capital on pages 69 73 for additional information on Basel III.Business OverviewJPMorgan Chase reported third-quarter 2015 net incomeof $6.8 billion, or $1.68 per share, on net revenue of $22.8 billion. The Firm reported a return on equity of 12%. Excluding tax benefits, legal expense and a net reduction in the allowance for credit losses, the Firm would have earned $5.4 billion in net income, or $1.32 per share. Both of these measures are non-GAAP financial measures. For further discussion, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 14 16.Net income increased 22% compared with the third quarter of 2014, despite lower revenue, primarily due to tax benefits. Net revenue was $22.8 billion, down 7% compared with the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $11.9 billion, down 11% compared with the prior year, driven by lower CIB Markets revenue reflecting the impact of business simplification and lower Mortgage Banking revenue. Net interest income was $10.9 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year, reflecting lower investment securities balances and lower trading net interest income, predominantly offset by loan growth.Noninterest expense was $15.4 billion, down 3% compared with the prior year, driven by lower CIB expense related to compensation and business simplification, partially offset by higher legal expense.The provision for credit losses was $682 million, down 10% compared with the prior year, due to lower net charge-offs, largely offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for loan losses. In the current quarter, the reduction in the consumer allowance for loan losses was $591 million, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies  as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates. This decrease was largely offset by an increase in the allowance for credit losses across the wholesale businesses of $310 million reflecting the impact of select downgrades, including within the Oil & Gas portfolio. Consumer net charge-offs were $961 million, compared with $1.1 billion in the prior year, resulting in net charge-off rates, excluding purchased credit-impaired ( PCI ) loans, of 0.94% and 1.19%, respectively. The Firm s allowance for loan losses to period-end loans retained, excluding PCI loans, was 1.40%, compared with 1.63% in the prior year. The Firm s allowance for loan losses to retained nonaccrual loans, excluding PCI loans, was 161%, compared with 155% in the prior year. The Firm s nonperforming assets totaled $7.3 billion, down from the prior quarter and prior year levels of $7.6 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively.The current quarter reflected tax benefits of $2.2 billion due to the resolution of tax audits and the release of deferred taxes from the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities.Firmwide core loans increased 15% compared with the prior year and 4% compared with the second quarter of 2015. Within Consumer & Community Banking, Consumer & Business Banking ( CBB ) average deposits were up 9%, Business Banking period-end loans were up 6%, and credit card sales volume was $126.6 billion, up 6% from the prior year. Within CB, period-end loans were up 13% from the prior year and the business reported its eleventh consecutive quarter of single-digit net charge-off rates or net recoveries. AM period-end loans were up 8% over the prior year and 81% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the 1st or 2nd quartiles over the past five years. CIB maintained its 5#1 ranking for Global Investment Banking fees with an 8.2% fee share for the third quarter of 2015. For a detailed discussion of results by line of business, refer to the Business Segment Results section beginning on page 17. The Firm maintained its fortress balance sheet and added to its capital, ending the third quarter with a tangible book value per share of $47.36, up 8% over the prior year. The Firm s estimated Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In CET1 capital and ratio were $172.4 billion and 11.4%, respectively. The Firm s fully phased-in supplementary leverage ratio ( SLR ) was 6.4% and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. s fully phased-in SLR was 6.5%. The Firm was also compliant with the fully phased-in U.S. liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR ) and had $505 billion of high quality liquid assets ( HQLA ) as of September 30, 2015. Tangible book value per share and each of these fully phased-in measures are non-GAAP financial measures and are used by management, bank regulators, investors and analysts to assess and monitor the Firm s capital position and liquidity. For further discussion of Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in measures and the SLR under the U.S. final SLR rule, see Regulatory capital on pages 69 73, and for further discussion of LCR and HQLA, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 76 80.JPMorgan Chase continued to support consumers, businesses and communities around the globe. The Firm provided credit and raised capital of $1.5 trillion for commercial and consumer clients during the first nine months of 2015. This included providing $462 billion of credit to corporations, $177 billion to consumers, and $16 billion to U.S. small businesses. During the first nine months of 2015, the Firm also raised $763 billion of capital for clients and $55 billion of credit was provided to, and capital was raised for, nonprofit and government entities, including states, municipalities, hospitals and universities.2015 Business outlookThese current expectations are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm s actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 85 of this Form 10-Q and Risk Factors on pages 8 17 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. There is no assurance that actual results for the fourth quarter or full year of 2015 will be in line with the outlook set forth below, and the Firm does not undertake to update any of these forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date hereof.JPMorgan Chase s outlook for the remainder of 2015 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets activity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment, client activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in the  U.S. and other countries where the Firm does business. Each of these interrelated factors will affect the performance of the Firm and its lines of business.Management expects core loan growth of approximately 15% in the fourth quarter of 2015. The Firm continues to experience net charge-offs at levels lower than its through-the-cycle expectations. If stable credit quality trends continue, management expects the Firm s total net charge-offs for the second half of 2015 to be consistent with the first half of 2015. Firmwide adjusted expense for the full year 2015 is expected to be approximately $56.5 billion, excluding firmwide legal expense.In Mortgage Banking within CCB, management expects noninterest revenue in the fourth quarter of 2015 to decline by approximately $250 million compared with the prior year fourth quarter; the actual results will be market dependent. In Card Services within CCB, management expects the revenue rate in the fourth quarter of 2015 to be approximately 11.75%, driven by the impact of Card partnership renegotiations, which are expected to decrease run-rate noninterest revenue by approximately $200 million per quarter. However, in the fourth quarter of 2015, management expects noninterest revenue to be relatively flat compared with the prior year fourth quarter given the impact of non-core portfolio exits in the year-ago quarter, and expects net interest income to be relatively flat year-over-year as well.In CIB, Markets revenue in the fourth quarter of 2015 is expected to decline sequentially due to seasonal trends. In Securities Services within CIB, at current market levels, management expects revenue to be below $950 million in the fourth quarter of 2015.In CB, management expects noninterest expense to be approximately $720 million in the fourth quarter of 2015.Business eventsFor a discussion of business events during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, see Note 2.6CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following section of the MD&A provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase s Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Factors that relate primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more  detail within that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages 81 83 of this Form 10-Q and pages 161 165 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.(a)Included operating lease income of $536 million and $433 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.Total net revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 was down by 7% and 2%, respectively, compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by lower CIB Fixed Income Markets revenue, including the impact of business simplification, lower Mortgage Banking revenue, and lower private equity gains, predominantly in Corporate. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, these factors were partially offset by higher CIB Equity Markets revenue and higher Firmwide investment banking fees.Investment banking fees increased from the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, reflecting higher debt underwriting and advisory fees, partially offset by lower equity underwriting fees. The increase in debt underwriting fees for the three month period reflected higher noninvestment-grade issuance fees; for the nine month period, the increase was primarily driven by a higher share of fees from investment-grade bonds. The increase in advisory fees for both periods was driven by a greater share of fees for completed transactions; for the nine month period, growth in industry-wide fee levels also contributed to the increase. The decrease in equity underwriting fees for both periods was driven by a decline in industry-wide fee levels. Investment banking fee share and industry-wide data are sourced from Dealogic. For additional information on investment banking fees, see CIB segment results onpages 30 35, CB segment results on pages 36 39 and Note 6.Principal transactions revenue decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared with the prior year, reflecting lower private equity gains in Corporate, driven by lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales; and lower Fixed Income Markets revenue in CIB, driven by the impact of business simplification, and lower revenue in Securitized Products and Credit, partially  offset by strong performance in Currencies & Emerging Markets; and additionally for the first nine months, by strong performance in Rates. The decrease in Fixed Income was partially offset by higher Equity Markets revenue reflecting strong performance across derivatives and cash equities, driven by higher client volumes. For additional information on principal transactions revenue, see CIB and Corporate segment results on pages 30 35 and pages 44 45, respectively, and Note 6.Asset management, administration and commissions revenue for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2015, decreased compared with the prior year, largely as a result of lower administration and other fees in CIB. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the decrease was partially offset by higher asset management fees on net client inflows into assets under management and higher average market levels in AM and CCB. For additional information on these fees and commissions, see the segment discussions of CCB on pages 18 29, AM on pages 40 43, and Note 6.Mortgage fees and related income decreased compared with the three months ended September 30, 2014, driven by lower mortgage servicing rights ( MSR ) risk management income and lower servicing revenue, partially due to lower average third-party loans serviced. Compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2014, mortgage fees and related income decreased, driven by lower servicing revenue, largely as a result of lower average third-party loans serviced and lower net production revenue, reflecting a lower repurchase benefit. For further information on mortgage fees and related income, see the segment discussion of CCB on pages 18 29 and Note 16.For additional information on lending- and deposit-related fees, see the segment results for CCB on pages 18 29, CIB 7on pages 30 35, and CB on pages 36 39; securities gains, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 44 45 and Note 11; and card income, see CCB segment results on pages 18 29.Other income for the three months ended September 30, 2015 decreased compared with the prior year, reflecting the impact of business simplification in CIB; the absence of a nonrecurring gain in Mortgage Banking ( MB ); and the impact of the sale of Retirement Plan Services ( RPS ) business in 2014 and lower gains on seed capital investments in AM. These factors were partially offset by higher operating lease income as a result of growth in auto operating lease assets in CCB. In the nine months ended September 30, 2015, other income decreased from the prior year as a result of the impact of business simplification in CIB; the absence in the current period of a benefit recognized in the second quarter of 2014 from a franchise tax settlement; losses related to the accelerated amortization of cash flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-operating deposits; and losses on the early redemption of trust preferred securities in the second quarter of 2015 and long-term debt in the first quarter of 2015 in Corporate. The decrease was partially offset by  higher operating lease income as a result of growth in auto operating lease assets in CCB.Net interest income decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared with the prior year, predominantly reflecting the impact of lower average investment securities balances and lower average trading asset balances and yields, partially offset by higher average loan balances. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, net interest income decreased from the prior year, predominantly reflecting lower loan yields, lower average investment securities balances, and lower trading asset yields; these factors were partially offset by higher average loan balances, and the impact of lower deposit and long-term debt yields. The Firm s average interest-earning assets were $2.1 trillion in the three months ended September 30, 2015, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable equivalent ( FTE ) basis, was 2.16%, a decrease of 3 basis points from the prior year. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Firm s average interest-earning assets were $2.1 trillion, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a FTE basis, was 2.11%, a decrease of 8 basis points from the prior year.The provision for credit losses in the three months ended September 30, 2015 decreased from the prior year as a result of a decline in the consumer, excluding credit card, provision, due to a larger reduction in the residential real estate portfolio allowance for loan losses, reflecting the continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates, and lower net charge-offs. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in the wholesale provision, reflecting the impact of select downgrades, including within the Oil & Gas portfolio. For the nine months ended  September 30, 2015, the provision for credit losses increased from the prior year as a result of an increase in the wholesale provision, reflecting the impact of the aforementioned downgrades, partially offset by a decline in the consumer provision, reflecting lower net charge-offs. For a more detailed discussion of the credit portfolio and the allowance for credit losses, see the segment discussions of CCB on pages 18 29, CIB on pages 30 35, CB on pages 36 39, and the Allowance for credit losses on pages 60 62.(a)Included firmwide legal expense of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $2.3 billion and $1.8 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively(b)Included Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-related ( FDIC ) expense of $298 million and $250 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $916 million and $809 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.8Total noninterest expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 decreased by 3% and 2%, respectively, from the prior year, driven by lower CIB expense related to compensation and business simplification, and lower professional and outside services expense, partially offset by higher legal expense.Compensation expense decreased compared with the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, predominantly driven by lower performance-based incentives and the impact of reduced headcount in MB, partially offset by higher postretirement benefit costs and the impact of investments in the businesses, including headcount for controls.Noncompensation expense in the three months ended September 30 2015 was relatively flat compared with the prior year, reflecting higher legal expense (which is included in other expense), higher depreciation expense,  predominantly associated with a higher volume of auto operating lease assets in CCB, and higher marketing expense. These factors were offset by the benefits of lower costs resulting from business simplification in CIB and lower professional and outside services expense, reflecting lower legal services expense and the impact of a reduced number of contractors in the businesses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, noncompensation expense decreased from the prior year, reflecting the benefits from business simplification in CIB; lower professional and outside services expense, reflecting lower legal services expense and the impact of a reduced number of contractors in the businesses; and lower amortization of intangibles. These factors were partially offset by higher legal expense, higher depreciation expense, largely associated with a higher volume of auto operating lease assets in CCB, higher marketing expense in CCB, and higher FDIC-related expense. For a further discussion of legal expense, see Note 23.The effective tax rate in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 decreased compared with the respective prior year periods, predominantly due to the recognition of tax benefits in 2015 of $2.2 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, which reduced the Firm s effective tax rate by 32.0% and 11.7%, respectively. The effective tax rate was also affected by the change in mix of income and expense subject to U.S. federal and state and local taxes. The recognition of tax benefits in 2015 resulted from the resolution of various tax audits, as well as the release of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities. For further information see Note 26 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report, and Note 2 of this Form 10-Q.9CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSISConsolidated balance sheets overviewJPMorgan Chase s total assets and total liabilities decreased by 6% and 7%, respectively, compared with December 31, 2014. The following is a discussion of the significant changes.Cash and due from banks and deposits with banksThe Firm s excess cash was placed with various central banks, predominantly Federal Reserve Banks. The net decrease in cash and due from banks and deposits with banks was driven by lower wholesale non-operating deposits.Trading assets debt and equity instrumentsThe decrease in trading assets was predominantly due to client-driven market-making activities in CIB, which resulted in lower levels of equity securities. For additional information, refer to Notes 3. Trading assets and liabilities derivative receivables and payablesThe decrease in both receivables and payables was predominantly due to client-driven market-making activities in CIB, as a result of market movements, maturities and settlements. For additional information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages 58 59, and Notes 3 and 5.SecuritiesThe decrease was largely due to paydowns and maturities of non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ), U.S. government agency MBS, and non-U.S. government debt securities; the decrease reflected a shift to higher loan balances. For additional information related to securities, refer to the discussion in the Corporate segment on pages 44 45, and Notes 3 and 11.Loans and allowance for loan lossesThe increase in loans reflected higher consumer and wholesale balances. The increase in consumer loans was due to originations and retention of high-quality prime  mortgages in Mortgage Banking ( MB ) and AM, partially offset by lower credit card loans due to seasonality and non-core loan portfolio sales. The increase in wholesale loans largely reflected higher commercial real estate originations, particularly in CB.The decrease in the allowance for loan losses was due to a reduction in the residential real estate portfolio allowance, driven by the continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies, as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates. The credit card allowance was relatively unchanged. The wholesale allowance increased reflecting the impact of select downgrades, including within the Oil & Gas portfolio. For a more detailed discussion of loans and the allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on pages 47 62, and Notes 3, 4, 13 and 14.Accrued interest and accounts receivableThe decrease was predominantly due to lower client receivables related to client activity in CIB.Mortgage servicing rightsFor additional information on MSRs, see Note 16.Other assetsOther assets was relatively flat, as the increase in tax receivables associated with the resolution of certain tax audits and higher auto operating lease assets from growth in business volume was offset by lower private equity investments driven by the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business and other portfolio sales.10DepositsThe decrease was attributable to lower wholesale deposits, partially offset by higher consumer deposits. The decrease in wholesale deposits reflected the impact of the Firm s actions to reduce non-operating deposits, consistent with its  announcement in February 2015, as well as the normalization of deposit levels from year-end seasonal inflows. The increase in consumer deposits reflected a continuing positive growth trend, resulting from strong customer retention based on higher customer satisfaction. For more information on deposits, refer to the CCB, CIB, CB and AM segment discussions on pages 18 29, pages 30 35, pages 36 39, and pages 40 43, respectively; the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 76 80; and Notes 3 and 17.Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreementsThe decrease reflected a decline in secured financing of trading assets-debt and equity instruments. For additional information on the Firm s Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 76 80.Commercial paperThe decrease was due to the discontinuation of a cash management product that offered customers the option of sweeping their deposits into commercial paper ( customer sweeps ), and lower issuances in the wholesale markets, consistent with Treasury s short-term funding plans. For additional information, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 76 80. Accounts payable and other liabilitiesThe decrease was due to lower brokerage customer payables related to client activity in CIB.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsFor further information on Firm-sponsored variable interestentities ( VIEs ) and loan securitization trusts, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements on page 12 and Note 15.Long-term debtThe increase was due to net issuances, consistent with Treasury s long-term funding plans. For additional information on the Firm s long-term debt activities, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 76 80.Stockholders  equityThe increase was due to net income and preferred stock issuances, partially offset by the declaration of cash dividends on common and preferred stock, and repurchases of common stock. For additional information on accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) ( AOCI ), see Note 19; for the Firm s capital actions, see Capital actions on pages 74 75.11OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSIn the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Certain obligations are recognized on-balance sheet, while others are off-balance sheet under U.S. GAAP. The Firm is involved with several types of off balance sheet arrangements, including through nonconsolidated special-purpose entities ( SPEs ), which are a type of VIE, and through lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees). For further discussion, see Note 21 of this Form 10-Q and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash Obligations on pages 74 75 and Note 29 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Special-purpose entitiesThe most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly used in securitization transactions in order to isolate certain assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to investors. SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, including the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper markets, as they provide market liquidity by facilitating investors  access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees. For further information on the types of SPEs, see Note 15 of this Form 10-Q, and Note 1 and Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Implications of a credit rating downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., could be required to provide funding if its short-term credit rating were downgraded below specific levels, primarily  P-1,   A-1  and  F1  for Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ), Standard & Poor s and Fitch, respectively. These liquidity commitments support the issuance of asset-backed commercial paper by Firm-administered consolidated SPEs. In the event of a short-term credit rating downgrade, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., absent other solutions, would be required to provide funding to the SPE, if the commercial paper could not be reissued as it matured. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper outstanding held by third parties as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, was $13.0 billion and $12.1 billion, respectively. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper issued by these SPEs and outstanding could increase in future periods should clients of the Firm-administered consolidated SPEs draw down on certain unfunded lending-related commitments. These unfunded lending-related commitments were $6.9 billion and $9.9 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. The Firm could facilitate the refinancing of some of the clients  assets in order to reduce the funding obligation. For further information, see the discussion of Firm-administered multiseller conduits in Note 15. The Firm also acts as liquidity provider for certain municipal bond vehicles. The Firm s obligation to perform as liquidity provider is conditional and is limited by certain termination events, which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the municipal bond issuer and any credit enhancement provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below investment grade. See Note 15 for additional information.Off balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees, and other commitmentsJPMorgan Chase provides lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk to the Firm should the counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm s view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments, and the Firm s accounting for them, see Lending-related commitments on page 58 and Note 21 (including the table that presents the related amounts by contractual maturity as of September 30, 2015). For a discussion of liabilities associated with loan sales- and securitization-related indemnifications, see Note 21.12CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS ANALYSISFor a discussion of the activities affecting the Firm s cash flows, see Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 10 11 of this Form 10-Q and page 76 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Operating activities Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by client-driven and risk management activities and market conditions. The Firm believes cash flows from operations, available cash balances and its capacity to generate cash through secured and unsecured funding sources are sufficient to meet the Firm s operating liquidity needs.Cash provided by operating activities in 2015 resulted from a decrease in trading assets predominantly due to client-driven market-making activities in CIB resulting in lower levels of equity securities, offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities due to lower brokerage customer payables related to client activity in CIB. Cash used during 2014 resulted from higher trading assets, predominantly debt and equity instruments related to client-driven marketing-making activities in CIB. For both periods, cash was provided by net income after noncash operating adjustments; and higher net proceeds from loan securitizations and sales activities, reflecting lower levels of activity over the prior year. Investing activities Cash provided by investing activities during 2015 predominantly resulted from a net decrease in deposits with banks which was driven by lower wholesale non-operating deposits, and net proceeds from paydowns, maturities, sales, and purchases of investment securities. Partially offsetting these net inflows was cash used for net originations of consumer and wholesale loans. Cash used in investing activities during 2014 predominantly resulted from increases in deposits with banks, reflecting higher levels of excess funds; increases in wholesale loans due to net originations; and net purchases of investment securities. Partially offsetting these net cash outflows in 2014 was a net decline in securities purchased under resale agreements due to a shift in the deployment of the Firm s excess cash by Treasury.Financing activities Cash used in financing activities in 2015 resulted from lower wholesale deposits partially offset by higher consumer deposits. The decrease in wholesale deposits reflects the impact of the Firm s commitment to reduce non-operating deposits as announced in February 2015, as well as the normalization of deposit levels from year-end seasonal inflows. The increase in consumer deposits reflected a continuing positive growth trend, resulting from strong customer retention based on higher customer satisfaction. Additionally, in 2015 cash outflows were attributable to lower levels of commercial paper due to a discontinuation of a cash management product that offered customers the option of sweeping their deposits into commercial paper, and lower issuances in the wholesale markets. Offsetting these outflows were net proceeds from long-term borrowings. Cash provided by financing activities in 2014 resulted predominantly from higher consumer and wholesale deposits and an increase in securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements due to higher financing of the Firm s trading assets-debt and equity instruments. For both periods, cash was provided by the issuance of preferred stock and used for repurchases of common stock and dividends on common and preferred stock.*     *     *For a further discussion of the activities affecting the Firm s cash flows, see Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 10 11, Capital Management on pages 69 75, and Liquidity Risk Management on pages 76 80.13EXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESThe Firm prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements using accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ( U.S. GAAP ); these financial statements appear on pages 86 90. That presentation, which is referred to as  reported  basis, provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm s results that can be tracked consistently from year-to-year and enables a comparison of the Firm s performance with other companies  U.S. GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm s results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm s results, including the overhead ratio, and the results of the lines of business on a  managed  basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm s definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm (and each of the reportable business segments) on an FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments have no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business. Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for investments in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit, which impacted the CIB. As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, the Firm made an accounting policy election to amortize the initial cost of qualifying investments in proportion to the tax credits and other benefits received, and to present the amortization as a component of income tax expense; previously such amounts were predominantly presented in other income. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively and, accordingly, certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. The adoption of the guidance did not materially change the Firm s results of operations on a managed basis as the Firm had previously presented and will continue to present the revenue from such investments on an FTE basis for the purposes of managed basis reporting.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the business-segment level, because it believes these other non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and, therefore, facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of its competitors. Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not be comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.(a) Predominantly recognized in CIB and CB business segments and Corporate.14Tangible common equity ( TCE ), ROTCE and TBVPS are each non-GAAP financial measures. TCE represents the Firm s common stockholders  equity (i.e., total stockholders  equity less preferred stock) less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE measures the Firm s earnings as a percentage of average TCE. TBVPS represents the Firm s TCE  at period-end divided by common shares at period-end. TCE, ROTCE, and TBVPS are meaningful to the Firm, as well as investors and analysts, in assessing the Firm s use of equity. Additionally, certain capital ratios disclosed by the Firm are non-GAAP measures. For additional information on these non-GAAP measures, see Regulatory capital on pages 69 73.(a)Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and to identifiable intangibles created in nontaxable transactions, which are netted against goodwill and other intangibles when calculating TCE.Net interest income excluding markets (formerly core net interest income)In addition to reviewing net interest income on a managed basis, management also reviews net interest income excluding CIB s markets-based activities to assess the performance of its lending, investing (including asset-liability management) and deposit-raising activities. The data presented below are non-GAAP financial measures due  to the exclusion of CIB s markets-based net interest income and related assets. Management believes this exclusion provides investors and analysts with another measure by which to analyze the non-market-related business trends of the Firm and provides a comparable measure to other financial institutions that are primarily focused on lending, investing and deposit-raising activities.(a)Interest includes the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable.(b)For a reconciliation of net interest income on a reported and managed basis, see reconciliation from the Firm s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis on page 14.15Quarterly and year-to-date results Net interest income excluding CIB s markets-based activities increased by $220 million and $254 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, when compared with the prior year periods. Results for the three months ended September 30, 2015 reflected higher average loan balances partially offset by the impact of lower average investment securities balances. Results for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 reflected higher average loan balances and the impact of lower deposit and long-term debt yields, partially offset by lower loan yields and lower average investment securities balances. Average interest-earning assets excluding assets related to CIB s markets-based activities increased by $32 billion to $1.6 trillion and by $82 billion to $1.6 trillion, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, when compared with the prior year periods; these increases primarily reflected the impact of higher average deposits with banks. The net interest yield excluding CIB s markets-based activities was flat at 2.52% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and decreased by 11 basis points to 2.45% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Income before income tax expense, net income and earnings per share excluding certain itemsPresented below are the Firm s income before income tax expense, net income and earnings per share excluding certain items. These measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Firm s reported results. Management believes this information helps investors understand the effect of these items on reported results and provides an additional presentation of the Firm s performance. The table below provides a reconciliation of reported results to these non-GAAP financial measures.16BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTSThe Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four major reportable business segments   Consumer & Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset Management. In addition, there is a Corporate segment.The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a definition of managed basis, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, on pages 14 16.Description of business segment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives business segment results allocates income and expense using market-based methodologies. The Firm continues to assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting  classifications used for segment reporting, and further refinements may be implemented in future periods.For a further discussion of those methodologies, see Business Segment Results   Description of business segment reporting methodology on pages 79 80 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Business segment capital allocation changesOn at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to its lines of business and updates the equity allocations to its lines of business as refinements are implemented.  Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration regulatory capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In), economic risk measures and stand-alone peer comparisons. The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity.  For further information about these capital changes, see Line of business equity on page 74.Segment Results   Managed basisThe following tables summarize the business segment results for the periods indicated.17CONSUMER & COMMUNITY BANKINGFor a discussion of the business profile of CCB, see pages 81 91 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report and Line of Business Metrics on page 182.Note: In the discussion and the tables which follow, CCB presents certain financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans; these are non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 14 16.Quarterly resultsConsumer & Community Banking net income was $2.6 billion, an increase of 4% compared with the prior year, driven by lower provision for credit losses, offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $10.9 billion, a decrease of 4% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $7.2 billion, flat, reflecting spread compression, offset by higher deposit and loan balances, and a reduction in the reserve for uncollectible interest and fees in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $3.7 billion, down 12%, predominantly driven by lower mortgage fees and related income.The provision for credit losses was $389 million, a decrease of 57% compared with the prior year, reflecting a larger reduction in the allowance for loan losses and lower net charge-offs. The current-quarter provision reflected a $575 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. The prior year included a $200 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. For more information, including net charge-off amounts and rates, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 48 53.Noninterest expense was $6.2 billion, a decrease of 1% from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking and Consumer & Business Banking expense, largely offset by higher Card expense. Year-to-date resultsConsumer & Community Banking net income was $7.4 billion, an increase of 5% compared with the prior year, driven by lower noninterest expense and lower provision for credit losses, largely offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $32.6 billion, a decrease of 2% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $21.0 billion, down 1%, driven by spread compression, predominantly offset by higher deposit and loan balances, and lower reversals of interest and fees due to lower net charge-offs in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $11.6 billion, down 5%, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income, partially offset by higher Auto lease income.The provision for credit losses was $2.0 billion, a decrease of 21% from the prior year, reflecting lower net charge-offs. Both the current- and prior-year provision reflected a $1.0 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses. For more information, including net charge-off amounts and rates, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 48 53.Noninterest expense was $18.6 billion, a decrease of 3% from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking expense.18(a)Predominantly consists of prime mortgages originated with the intent to sell that are accounted for at fair value.(b)Included period-end credit card loans held-for-sale of $1.3 billion and $395 million at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts were excluded when calculating delinquency rates and the allowance for loan losses to period-end loans.(c)Equity is allocated to the sub-business segments with $5.0 billion and $3.0 billion of capital in 2015 and 2014, respectively, held at the CCB level related to legacy mortgage servicing matters.(d)Included average credit card loans held-for-sale of $1.3 billion and $335 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $1.9 billion and $352 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. These amounts are excluded when calculating the net charge-off rate.19(a)Net charge-offs and the net charge-off rates excluded $52 million and $87 million of write-offs in the PCI portfolio for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $162 million and $196 million of write-offs in the PCI portfolio for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These write-offs decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. For further information on PCI write-offs, see Allowance for Credit Losses on pages 60 62.(b)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as they are all performing.(c)At September 30, 2015 and 2014, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.6 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; (2) student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program ( FFELP ) of $289 million and $354 million, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; (3) real estate owned ( REO ) insured by U.S. government agencies of $327 million and $464 million, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.(d)The allowance for loan losses for PCI loans was $2.8 billion and $3.7 billion at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively; these amounts were also excluded from the applicable ratios.(e)Users of all internet browsers and mobile platforms (mobile smartphone, tablet and SMS) who have logged in within the past 90 days.20Consumer & Business BankingQuarterly resultsConsumer & Business Banking net income was $954 million, an increase of 3% compared with the prior year.Net revenue was $4.6 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $2.6 billion, down 7% due to deposit spread compression, largely offset by higher deposit balances. Noninterest revenue was $2.0 billion, up 5%, driven by higher deposit-related fees, higher debit card revenue, reflecting an increase in transaction volume, and higher investment revenue, reflecting an increase in client investment assets.Noninterest expense was $3.0 billion, a decrease of 3% from the prior year, driven by branch efficiencies. Year-to-date resultsConsumer & Business Banking net income was $2.6 billion, an increase of 1% compared with the prior year.Net revenue was $13.4 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $7.8 billion, down 6% due to deposit spread compression, largely offset by higher deposit balances. Noninterest revenue was $5.6 billion, up 4%, driven by higher debit card revenue, reflecting an increase in transaction volume, and higher investment revenue, reflecting an increase in client investment assets.Noninterest expense was $9.0 billion, a decrease of 2% from the prior year, driven by branch efficiencies, partially offset by higher legal expense.21(a)Includes checking accounts and Chase Liquid  cards.22Mortgage Banking(a)For further information on mortgage fees and related income, see Note 16.Quarterly resultsMortgage Banking net income was $602 million, an increase of 29% from the prior year, driven by a higher benefit from the provision for credit losses and lower noninterest expense, largely offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $1.6 billion, a decrease of 23% compared with the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $443 million, a decrease of 54% from the prior year. This decrease was driven by lower MSR risk management income, lower servicing revenue, partially due to lower average third-party loans serviced, and the absence of a non-recurring gain from the prior year. See Note 16 for further information regarding changes in value of the MSR asset and related hedges, and mortgage fees and related income.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $534 million, compared with a benefit of $19 million in the prior year, reflecting a larger reduction in the allowance for loan losses and lower net charge-offs. The current-quarter provision reflected a $375 million reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and a $200 million reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses; the prior-year provision included a $100 million reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses. These reductions were due to continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in both periods, as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates in the current quarter.  See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 48 53 for the net charge-off amounts and rates.Noninterest expense was $1.1 billion, a decrease of 13% from the prior year, reflecting lower headcount-related expense and lower professional fees. Year-to-date resultsMortgage Banking net income was $1.5 billion, an increase of 14% from the prior year, driven by lower noninterest expense and a higher benefit from the provision for credit losses, predominantly offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $5.1 billion, a decrease of 14% compared with the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $1.9 billion, a decrease of 30% from the prior year. This decrease was driven by lower servicing revenue, largely as a result of lower average third-party loans serviced and lower net production revenue, reflecting a lower repurchase benefit.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $749 million, compared with a benefit of $230 million in the prior year, reflecting a larger reduction in the allowance for loan losses and lower net charge-offs. The current-year provision reflected a $600 million reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and a $375 million reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses; the prior-year provision included a $300 million reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and a $300 million reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses. These reductions were due to continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in both periods, as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates in the current year. See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 48 53 for the net charge-off amounts and rates.Noninterest expense was $3.4 billion, a decrease of 14% from the prior year, reflecting lower headcount-related expense and lower professional fees.23(a)Predominantly consists of prime mortgages originated with the intent to sell that are accounted for at fair value.24(a)Net charge-offs and the net charge-off rates excluded $52 million and $87 million of write-offs in the PCI portfolio for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $162 million and $196 million of write-offs in the PCI portfolio for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. These write-offs decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. For further information on PCI write-offs, see Allowance for Credit Losses on pages 60 62. (b)At September 30, 2015 and 2014, excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $8.5 billion and $9.6 billion, respectively, that are 30 or more days past due. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee. For further discussion, see Note 13 which summarizes loan delinquency information.(d)At September 30, 2015 and 2014, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.6 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due and (2) REO insured by U.S. government agencies of $327 million and $464 million, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.(e)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as they are all performing.25(a)Firmwide mortgage origination volume was $32.2 billion and $22.7 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2015, and 2014, respectively, and $90.5 billion and $58.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(b)Represents the ratio of MSR carrying value (period-end) to third-party mortgage loans serviced (period-end) divided by the ratio of annualized loan servicing-related revenue to third-party mortgage loans serviced (average).Mortgage servicing-related mattersThe financial crisis resulted in unprecedented levels of delinquencies and defaults of 1 4 family residential real estate loans. Such loans required varying degrees of loss mitigation activities. Foreclosure is usually a last resort, and accordingly, the Firm has made, and continues to make, significant efforts to help borrowers remain in their homes.The Firm has entered into various Consent Orders and settlements with federal and state governmental agencies and private parties related to mortgage servicing, origination, and residential mortgage-backed securities activities. The requirements of these Consent Orders and settlements vary, but in the aggregate, include cash compensatory payments (in addition to fines) and/or  borrower relief,  which may include principal reduction, refinancing, short sale assistance, and other specified types of borrower relief. Other obligations required under certain Consent Orders and settlements, as well as under new regulatory requirements, include enhanced mortgage servicing and foreclosure standards and processes.On June 11, 2015, the Firm signed an Amended Consent Order focused on the subset of ten items that must be resolved to complete the requirements of the Consent Orders with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) and Federal Reserve. The Firm has completed its work on those items and is awaiting confirmation by the banking regulators of its satisfactory compliance with the items in the Amended Consent Order. The Amended Consent Order also requires a supervisory non-objection before the Firm may acquire new contracts to perform mortgage servicing rights; outsource or subservice new mortgage servicing activities; offshore new mortgage servicing activities; or appoint senior officers in mortgage servicing. The mortgage servicing Consent Orders and settlements are subject to ongoing oversight by the Mortgage Compliance Committee of the Firm s Board of Directors. In addition, certain of the Consent Orders and settlements are the subject of ongoing reporting to various regulators and independent overseers. The Firm s compliance with certain of these settlements is detailed in periodic reports published by the independent overseers. The Firm is committed to fulfilling all of these commitments with appropriate due diligence and oversight.26Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto ( Card ) Note: Chase Commerce Solutions, formerly known as Merchant Services, includes Chase Paymentech, ChaseNet and Chase Offers businesses.(a)Included operating lease depreciation expense of $372 million and $293 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $1.0 billion and $851 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.Quarterly resultsCard net income was $1.1 billion, a decrease of 6% compared with the prior year, driven by higher noninterest expense, largely offset by higher net revenue.Net revenue was $4.8 billion, an increase of 2% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $3.4 billion, up 4% from the prior year, driven by a reduction in the reserve for uncollectible interest and fees and higher loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $1.3 billion, down 4% compared with the prior year, driven by the impact of renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements and higher amortization of new account origination costs, predominantly offset by higher auto lease and card sales volumes.The provision for credit losses was $873 million, compared with $846 million in the prior year, reflecting a smaller reduction in the allowance for loan losses, largely offset by lower net charge-offs. The prior-year provision included a $100 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in Auto and Student.Noninterest expense was $2.2 billion, up 8% from the prior year, driven by higher auto lease depreciation and higher marketing expense. Year-to-date resultsCard net income was $3.3 billion, an increase of 5% compared with the prior year, driven by higher net revenue, largely offset by higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $14.1 billion, an increase of 2% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $10.0 billion, up 2% from the prior year, driven by higher loan balances and lower reversals of interest and fees due to lower net charge-offs in Credit Card, partially offset by spread compression. Noninterest revenue was $4.1 billion, up 2% compared with the prior year, driven by higher auto lease and card sales volumes, predominantly offset by the impact of renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements and higher amortization of new account origination costs.The provision for credit losses was $2.6 billion, flat compared with the prior year, reflecting a smaller reduction in the allowance for loan losses, offset by lower net charge-offs. The current-year provision reflected a $51 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, primarily due to runoff in the student loan portfolio. The prior-year provision included a $403 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, primarily related to a decrease in the asset-specific allowance resulting from increased granularity of the impairment estimates and lower balances related to credit card loans modified in TDRs, runoff in the student loan portfolio and lower estimated losses in auto loans.Noninterest expense was $6.2 billion, up 2% from the prior year, driven by higher auto lease depreciation and higher marketing expense, partially offset by lower legal expense.2728(a)Average credit card loans included loans held-for-sale of $1.3 billion and $335 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $1.9 billion and $352 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts are excluded when calculating the net charge-off rate.(b)Period-end credit card loans included loans held-for-sale of $1.3 billion and $395 million at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts were excluded when calculating delinquency rates and the allowance for loan losses to period-end loans.(c)Excluded student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP of $507 million and $640 million at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, that are 30 or more days past due. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.(d)Nonperforming assets excluded student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP of $289 million and $354 million at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans based upon the government guarantee.29CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANKFor a discussion of the business profile of CIB, see pages 92 96 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report and Line of Business Metrics on pages 182 183.(a)Included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to income tax credits related to alternative energy investments; income tax credits and amortization of the cost of investments in affordable housing projects; as well as tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments of $417 million and $374 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(a)Effective in the second quarter of 2015, Investment banking revenue (formerly Investment banking fees) incorporates all revenue associated with investment banking activities, and is reported net of investment banking revenue shared with other lines of business; previously such shared revenue had been reported in Fixed Income Markets and Equity Markets. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.(b)Effective in the second quarter of 2015, Trade Finance revenue was transferred from Treasury Services to Lending. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.(c)Consists primarily of credit valuation adjustments ( CVA ) managed by the credit portfolio group, and funding valuation adjustments ( FVA ) and debit valuation adjustments ( DVA ) on OTC derivatives and structured notes. Results are presented net of associated hedging activities and net of CVA and FVA amounts allocated to Fixed Income Markets and Equity Markets.30Quarterly results Net income was $1.5 billion, down 13% compared with $1.7 billion in the prior year, reflecting lower net revenue and a higher provision for credit losses, predominantly offset by lower income tax expense, largely reflecting the release in 2015 of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities. Banking revenue was $2.8 billion, up 2% from the prior year. Investment banking revenue was up 5% compared with the prior year on higher advisory and debt underwriting fees, largely offset by lower equity underwriting fees. Advisory fees were up 22% driven by a greater share of fees for completed transactions. Debt underwriting fees were up 17% compared with the prior year, reflecting higher noninvestment-grade issuance fees. Equity underwriting fees were down 35% as industry-wide fee levels declined. Treasury Services revenue was $899 million, down 4% compared with the prior year, driven by lower net interest income. Markets & Investor Services revenue was $5.4 billion, down 16% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue of $2.9 billion was down 23% from the prior year driven by the impact of business simplification, lower revenue in Commodities and continued weakness in Credit, partially offset by strength in Currencies & Emerging Markets. The lower Fixed Income revenue also reflected higher interest costs on higher long-term debt. Equity Markets revenue of $1.4 billion was up 9% with strong performance across derivatives and cash equities driven by higher client volumes. The provision for credit losses was $232 million, compared to a benefit of $67 million in the prior year, reflecting a higher allowance for loan losses, including the impact of select downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio.Noninterest expense was $6.1 billion, up 2% from the prior year, driven by higher legal expense, offset by lower compensation expense and the benefit from business simplification. Year-to-date results Net income was $6.3 billion, up 7% compared with $5.9 billion in the prior year, reflecting lower noninterest expense and lower income tax expense, largely reflecting the release in 2015 of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities, largely offset by lower net revenue and a higher provision for credit losses.Banking revenue was $8.7 billion, up 3% from the prior year. Investment banking revenue was $4.9 billion, up 10% from the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by higher advisory and debt underwriting fees, partially offset by lower equity underwriting fees. Advisory fees of $1.5 billion were up 27%, driven by a greater share of fees for completed transactions and growth in industry-wide fee levels. Debt underwriting fees were $2.6 billion, up 11%, primarily driven by a higher share of fees for investment-grade bonds. Equity underwriting fees of $1.1 billion were down 10% on lower industry-wide fee levels. Treasury Services revenue was $2.7 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year, primarily driven by lower net interest income. Lending revenue was $1.1 billion, down 10% from the prior year, primarily driven by lower revenue in trade finance and losses on securities received from restructurings.Markets & Investor Services revenue was $17.8 billion, down 5% compared with the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue of $10.0 billion was down 12% from the prior year, primarily driven by the impact of business simplification and weakness in Credit, partially offset by strength in Currencies & Emerging Markets and Rates. The lower Fixed Income revenue also reflected higher interest costs on higher long-term debt. Equity Markets revenue of $4.6 billion was up 19% on higher derivatives and cash equities driven by higher client volumes. The provision for credit losses was $251 million, compared to a benefit of $102 million in the prior year, reflecting a higher allowance for loan losses, including the impact of select downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio.Noninterest expense was $16.9 billion, down 4% from the prior year, primarily driven by the benefit from business simplification, partially offset by higher legal expense.31(a)Loans retained includes credit portfolio loans, trade finance loans, other held-for-investment loans and overdrafts.(b)Effective in the second quarter of 2015, certain technology staff were transferred from CIB to CB; previously-reported headcount has been revised to conform with the current period presentation. As the related expense for these staff is not material, prior period expenses have not been revised. Prior to the second quarter of 2015, compensation expense related to this headcount was recorded in the CIB, with an allocation to CB (reported in noncompensation expense); commencing with the second quarter of 2015, such expense is recorded as compensation expense in CB and accordingly total noninterest expense related to this headcount in both CB and CIB remains unchanged.32(a)Loans retained includes credit portfolio loans, trade finance loans, other held-for-investment loans and overdrafts.(b)Allowance for loan losses of $160 million and $19 million were held against these nonaccrual loans at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(c)Management uses allowance for loan losses to period-end loans retained, excluding trade finance and conduits, a non-GAAP financial measure, to provide a more meaningful assessment of CIB s allowance coverage ratio.33 (a)Source: Dealogic. Reflects the ranking of revenue wallet and market share (b)Long-term debt rankings include investment-grade, high-yield, supranationals, sovereigns, agencies, covered bonds, asset-backed securities ( ABS ) and mortgage-backed securities; and exclude money market, short-term debt, and U.S. municipal securities.(c)Global equity and equity-related rankings include rights offerings and Chinese A-Shares.(d)M&A and Announced M&A rankings reflect the removal of any withdrawn transactions. U.S. M&A revenue wallet represents wallet from client parents based in the U.S. U.S. announced M&A volumes represents any U.S. involvement ranking. (e)Global investment banking fees per Dealogic exclude money market, short-term debt and shelf deals.(f)Source: Dealogic. Reflects transaction volume and market share. Global announced M&A is based on transaction value at announcement; because of joint M&A assignments, M&A market share of all participants will add up to more than 100%. All other transaction volume-based rankings are based on proceeds, with full credit to each book manager/equal if joint.(a)Consists of mutual funds, unit investment trusts, currencies, annuities, insurance contracts, options and other contracts.34(a)Total net revenue is based predominantly on the domicile of the client or location of the trading desk, as applicable. Loans outstanding (excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value), client deposits and other third-party liabilities, and AUC are based predominantly on the domicile of the client.35COMMERCIAL BANKINGFor a discussion of the business profile of CB, see pages 97 99 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report and Line of Business Metrics on page 183.(a)Includes revenue from investment banking products and commercial card transactions.(b)Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments from income tax credits related to equity investments in designated community development entities that provide loans to qualified businesses in low-income communities, as well as tax-exempt income from municipal bond activity of $116 million and $108 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $344 million and $317 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.Quarterly resultsNet income was $518 million, a decrease of 23% compared with the prior year, driven by a higher provision for credit losses, lower net revenue, and higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $1.6 billion, a decrease of 3% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $1.1 billion, or flat compared with the prior year, reflecting yield compression in both loans and deposits, partially offset by higher lending balances. Noninterest revenue was $522 million, down 9% compared with the prior year, driven by lower investment banking revenue.Noninterest expense was $719 million, up 8% compared with the prior year, driven by higher investment in controls.The provision for credit losses was $82 million, reflecting a modest increase in the allowance for loan losses for Oil & Gas exposure. The prior year quarter was a benefit of $79 million. Year-to-date resultsNet income was $1.6 billion, a decrease of 15% compared with the prior year, driven by a higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $5.1 billion, flat compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $3.4 billion, or flat compared with the prior year, reflecting yield compression, largely offset by higher lending balances. Noninterest revenue was $1.8 billion, up 4% compared with the prior year, driven by higher investment banking revenue.Noninterest expense was $2.1 billion, up 5% compared with the prior year, driven by higher investment in controls.The provision for credit losses was $325 million, reflecting an increase in the allowance for loan losses for Oil & Gas exposure and other select downgrades. The prior year was a benefit of $141 million.36(a)Effective in the second quarter of 2015, Commercial Card and Chase Commerce Solutions/Paymentech product revenue was transferred from Lending and Other, respectively, to Treasury Services. Prior period amounts were revised to conform with the current period presentation.(b)Represents the total revenue from investment banking products sold to CB clients.(c)Effective in the first quarter of 2015, mortgage warehouse lending clients were transferred from Middle Market Banking to Corporate Client Banking. Prior period revenue, period-end loans, and average loans by client segment were revised to conform with the current period presentation.37(a)Effective in the first quarter of 2015, mortgage warehouse lending clients were transferred from Middle Market Banking to Corporate Client Banking. Prior period revenue, period-end loans, and average loans by client segment were revised to conform with the current period presentation.(b)Effective in the second quarter of 2015, certain technology staff were transferred from CIB to CB; previously-reported headcount has been revised to conform with the current period presentation. As the related expense for these staff is not material, prior period expenses have not been revised. Prior to the second quarter of 2015, compensation expense related to this headcount was recorded in the CIB, with an allocation to CB (reported in noncompensation expense); commencing with the second quarter of 2015, such expense is recorded as compensation expense in CB and accordingly total noninterest expense related to this headcount in both CB and CIB remains unchanged.38(a)Allowance for loan losses of $80 million and $71 million was held against nonaccrual loans retained at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(b)Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating the net charge-off/(recovery) rate.39ASSET MANAGEMENTFor a discussion of the business profile of AM, see pages 100 102 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report and Line of Business Metrics on pages 183 184.Quarterly resultsNet income was $475 million, a decrease of 19% compared with the prior year, reflecting lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $2.9 billion, an decrease of 5%. Net interest income was $633 million, up 1%, driven by higher loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $2.3 billion, down 7%, reflecting the sale of the Retirement Plan Services ( RPS ) business in 2014, lower market levels driving lower transactional revenue and lower valuations of seed capital investments within All other income.Noninterest expense was $2.1 billion, an increase of 1%, due to continued investment in both infrastructure and controls. Year-to-date resultsNet income was $1.4 billion, a decrease of 11% compared with the prior year, reflecting higher noninterest expense, largely offset by higher net revenue.Net revenue was $9.1 billion, an increase of 3%. Net interest income was $1.9 billion, up 4%, driven by higher loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $7.2 billion, up 2%, on net client inflows into assets under management and higher average market levels, partially offset by the sale of RPS and lower transactional revenue.Noninterest expense was $6.7 billion, an increase of 8%, predominantly due to higher legal expense, continued investment in both infrastructure and controls, and the impact of a loss from a held-for-sale asset.40(a)Represents the  overall star rating  derived from Morningstar for the U.S., the U.K., Luxembourg, Hong Kong and Taiwan domiciled funds; and Nomura  star rating  for Japan domiciled funds. Includes only Global Investment Management retail open ended mutual funds that have a rating. Excludes money market funds, Undiscovered Managers Fund, and Brazil and India domiciled funds.(b)Quartile ranking sourced from: Lipper for the U.S. and Taiwan domiciled funds; Morningstar for the U.K., Luxembourg and Hong Kong domiciled funds; Nomura for Japan domiciled funds and Fund Doctor for South Korea domiciled funds. Includes only Global Investment Management retail open ended mutual funds that are ranked by the aforementioned sources. Excludes money market funds, Undiscovered Managers Fund, and Brazil and India domiciled funds.(c)Included $25.4 billion and $21.3 billion of prime mortgage loans reported in the Consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolio at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For the same periods, excluded $2.2 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, of prime mortgage loans reported in the Chief Investment Office ( CIO ) portfolio within the Corporate segment.41Client assets Assets under management were $1.7 trillion, flat compared with the prior year, due to net inflows to long-term and liquidity products offset by the effect of lower market levels. Client assets were $2.3 trillion, down 1% from the prior year.(a) Represents assets under management, as well as client balances in brokerage accounts.42(a) Regional revenue is based on the domicile of the client.43CORPORATEFor a discussion of Corporate, see pages 103 104 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.(a)Included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments of $215 million and $190 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $620 million and $534 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(b)Included legal expense of $102 million and $512 million  for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $425 million and $737 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(c)Effective with the first quarter of 2015, the Firm began including the results of Private Equity in the Other Corporate line within the Corporate segment. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. The Corporate segment s balance sheets and results of operations were not impacted by this reporting change.Quarterly resultsNet Income was $1.7 billion, compared with $95 million in the prior year.Net revenue was a loss of $50 million in the current year, compared to a loss of $75 million in the prior year.  Private Equity gains were $391 million lower compared to the prior year, reflecting lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales.   Noninterest expense was $172 million, a decrease of $537 million from the prior year, primarily driven by lower legal expense.The current quarter reflected tax benefits of $1.9 billion from the resolution of various tax audits compared with tax benefits of approximately $400 million in the prior year.44Year-to-date resultsNet Income was $2.2 billion, compared with $317 million in the prior year.     Net revenue was a loss of $384 million, compared to a loss of $235 million in the prior year.  Private Equity gains were $698 million lower compared to the prior year, reflecting lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales. The current year included a $173 million pretax loss in Treasury and CIO primarily related to the accelerated amortization of cash flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-operating deposits.Noninterest expense was $368 million, a decrease of $355 million from the prior year, primarily driven by lower legal expense.The current year reflected tax benefits of $2.4 billion from the resolution of various tax audits compared with tax benefits of approximately $550 million in the prior year. Treasury and CIO overviewFor a discussion of Treasury and CIO, see page 104 of the Firm s 2014 Annual Report.At September 30, 2015, the total Treasury and CIO investment securities portfolio was $303.1 billion, and the average credit rating of the securities comprising the portfolio was AA+ (based upon external ratings where available and, where not available, based primarily upon internal ratings that correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody s). See Note 11 for further information on the Firm s investment securities portfolio.For further information on liquidity and funding risk, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 76 80. For information on interest rate, foreign exchange and other risks, Treasury and CIO value-at-risk ( VaR ) and the Firm s earnings-at-risk, see Market Risk Management on pages 63 66.(a)Average investment securities included held-to-maturity balances of $50.7 billion and $48.3 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $50.2 billion and $46.6 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (b)Period-end investment securities included held-to-maturity balance of $50.2 billion and $48.8 billion at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(a)For more information on the Firm s methodologies regarding the valuation of the private equity portfolio, see Note 3 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.(b)The sale of a portion of the Private Equity business was completed on January 9, 2015.45ENTERPRISE-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase s business activities. When the Firm extends a consumer or wholesale loan, advises customers on their investment decisions, makes markets in securities, or conducts any number of other services or activities, the Firm takes on some degree of risk. The Firm s overall objective in managing risk is to protect the safety and soundness of the Firm, avoid excessive risk taking, and manage and balance risk in a manner that serves the interest of its clients, customers and shareholders.The Firm s approach to risk management covers a broad spectrum of risk areas, such as credit, market, liquidity, model, structural interest rate, principal, country, operational, fiduciary and reputation risk.The Firm believes that effective risk management requires: Acceptance of responsibility, including identification and escalation of risk issues, by all individuals within the Firm; Ownership of risk management within each line of business and corporate function; and Firmwide structures for risk governance. Firmwide Risk Management is overseen and managed on an enterprise-wide basis. The Firm s Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ), Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ), Chief Risk Officer ( CRO ) and Chief Operating Officer ( COO ) develop and set the risk management framework and governance structure for the Firm, which is intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent in the Firm s business activities. The Firm s risk management framework is intended to create a culture of transparency, awareness and personal responsibility through reporting, collaboration, discussion, escalation and sharing of information. The CEO, CFO, CRO and COO are ultimately responsible and accountable to the Firm s Board of Directors.The Firm s risk culture strives for continual improvement through ongoing employee training and development, as well as talent retention. The Firm also approaches its incentive compensation arrangements through an integrated risk, compensation and financial management framework to encourage a culture of risk awareness and personal accountability. The following provides an index of key risk management disclosures. For further information on these disclosures, refer to the page references noted below in both this Form 10-Q and JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.46CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENTCredit risk is the risk of loss arising from the default of a customer, client or counterparty. The Firm provides credit to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to individual consumers and small businesses. For a further discussion of the Firm s Credit Risk Management framework and organization, and the identification, monitoring and management of credit risks, see Credit Risk Management on pages 110 130 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.In the following tables, reported loans include loans retained (i.e., held-for-investment); loans held-for-sale (which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue); and certain loans accounted for at fair value. In addition, the Firm records certain loans accounted for at fair value in trading assets. For further information regarding these loans, see Note 3. For additional information on the Firm s loans and derivative receivables, including the Firm s accounting policies, see Note 13 and Note 5, respectively.For further information regarding the credit risk inherent in the Firm s investment securities portfolio, see Note 11 of this Form 10-Q, and Notes 11 and 12 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report; and for information regarding the credit risk inherent in the securities financing portfolio, see Note 12 of this Form 10-Q.A significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of the Firm s borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns about the credit quality of other borrowers or counterparties in similar, related, or dependent industries and thereby could exacerbate the Firm s credit risk exposure and potentially increase its losses, including mark-to-market losses in its trading businesses. Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm no longer includes within its disclosure of wholesale lending-related commitments the unused amount of advised uncommitted lines of credit as it is within the Firm s discretion whether or not to make a loan under these lines, and the Firm s approval is generally required prior to funding. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. (a)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold through credit derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperforming wholesale credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. For additional information, see Credit derivatives on page  59 and Note 5.(b)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as they are all performing.(c)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.6 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; (2) student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP of $289 million and $367 million, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; and (3) REO insured by U.S. government agencies of $327 million and $462 million, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee. In addition, the Firm s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ( FFIEC ).(d)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, total nonaccrual loans represented 0.82% and 0.94%, respectively, of total loans.47CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO The Firm s consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential real estate loans, credit card loans, auto loans, business banking loans, and student loans. The Firm s focus is on serving the prime segment of the consumer credit  market. For further information on consumer loans, see Note 13 of this Form 10-Q and Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113 119 and Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The following table presents consumer credit-related information with respect to the credit portfolio held by CCB, prime mortgage and home equity loans held by AM, and prime mortgage loans held by Corporate. (a)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, excluded operating lease assets of $8.4 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively.(b)Credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available lines of credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit would be used at the same time. For credit card and home equity commitments (if certain conditions are met), the Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice.(c)Receivables from customers represent margin loans to retail brokerage customers, and are included in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated balance sheets.(d)Includes accrued interest and fees net of an allowance for the uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee income.(e)Predominantly represents prime mortgage loans held-for-sale.48(f)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, nonaccrual loans excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.6 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; and (2) student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP of $289 million and $367 million, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans based upon the government guarantee. In addition, credit card loans are generally exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status, as permitted by regulatory guidance.(g)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as they are all performing.(h)Net charge-offs and the net charge-off rates excluded write-offs in the PCI portfolio of $52 million and $87 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $162 million and $196 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These write-offs decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113 119 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report for further details.(i)Average consumer loans held-for-sale were $2.1 billion and $876 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $2.4 billion and $749 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts were excluded when calculating net charge-off rates.Consumer, excluding credit cardPortfolio analysisConsumer loan balances increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, predominantly due to originations of high-quality prime mortgage loans that have been retained, partially offset by paydowns and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans. Credit performance has continued to improve across most portfolios as the economy strengthened and home prices increased.PCI loans are excluded from the following discussions of individual loan products and are addressed separately below. For further information about the Firm s consumer portfolio, including information about delinquencies, loan modifications and other credit quality indicators, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Home equity: The home equity portfolio declined from 2014 year-end primarily reflecting loan paydowns and charge-offs. Early-stage delinquencies showed improvement from December 31, 2014. Late-stage delinquencies continue to be elevated, although the Firm has seen improvement in the number of loans becoming severely delinquent, this improvement was offset by higher collateral values, which resulted in lower write-downs on these delinquent loans. Net charge-offs for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 for both senior and junior lien home equity loans declined when compared with the same period of the prior year as a result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies, but charge-offs remain elevated compared with pre-recessionary levels.  Approximately 15% of the Firm s home equity portfolio consists of home equity loans ( HELOANs ) and the remainder consists of home equity lines of credit ( HELOCs ). Approximately 60% of the HELOANs are senior liens and the remainder are junior liens. For further information on the Firm s home equity portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113 119 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The unpaid principal balance of HELOCs outstanding was $42 billion at September 30, 2015. Of this $42 billion, approximately $6 billion has recast since January 1, 2014 from interest-only to fully amortizing payments; based upon contractual terms, approximately $17 billion is scheduled to recast, consisting of $1 billion during the remainder of 2015, $6 billion in 2016, $6 billion in 2017 and $4 billion in 2018 and beyond. However, of the total $17 billion scheduled to recast, $11 billion is expected to actually recast; and the remaining $6 billion represents loans to borrowers who are expected either to pre-pay or charge-off prior to recast. The Firm has considered this payment recast risk in its allowance for loan losses based upon the estimated amount of payment shock (i.e., the excess of the fully-amortizing payment over the interest-only payment in effect prior to recast) expected to occur at the payment recast date, along with the corresponding estimated probability of default and loss severity assumptions. Certain factors, such as future developments in both unemployment rates and home prices, could have a significant impact on the performance of these loans.The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are exhibiting a material deterioration in their credit risk profile. The Firm will continue to evaluate both the near-term and longer-term repricing and recast risks inherent in its HELOC portfolio to ensure that changes in the Firm s estimate of incurred losses are appropriately considered in the allowance for loan losses and that the Firm s account management practices are appropriate given the portfolio s risk profile.High-risk seconds are junior lien loans where the borrower has a senior lien loan that is either delinquent or has been modified. Such loans are considered to pose a higher risk of default than junior lien loans for which the senior lien is neither delinquent nor modified. At September 30, 2015, the Firm estimated that its home equity portfolio contained approximately $1.5 billion of current junior lien loans that were considered high risk seconds, compared with $1.8 billion at December 31, 2014. The Firm estimates the balance of its total exposure to high-risk seconds on a quarterly basis using internal data and loan level credit bureau data (which typically provides the delinquency status of the senior lien). The estimated balance of these high-risk seconds may vary from quarter to quarter for reasons such as the movement of related senior liens into and out of the 30+ day delinquency bucket.49Current high-risk seconds(in billions) September 30, 2015December 31, 2014Junior liens subordinate to:     Modified current senior lien  $0.6 $0.7Senior lien 30   89 days delinquent  0.4 0.5Senior lien 90 days or more delinquent(a)  0.5 0.6Total current high-risk seconds  $1.5 $1.8(a)Junior liens subordinate to senior liens that are 90 days or more past due are classified as nonaccrual loans. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, excluded approximately $30 million and approximately $50 million, respectively, of junior liens that are performing but not current, which were placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with the regulatory guidance.Of the estimated $1.5 billion of high-risk junior liens at September 30, 2015, the Firm owns approximately 10% and services approximately 20% of the related senior lien loans to the same borrowers. The performance of the Firm s junior lien loans is generally consistent regardless of whether the Firm owns or services, or does not own or service, the senior lien. The increased probability of default associated with these higher-risk junior lien loans was considered in estimating the allowance for loan losses.Mortgage: Prime mortgages, including option adjustable-rate mortgages ( ARMs ) and loans held-for-sale, increased from December 31, 2014 as originations of high-quality loans that have been retained were partially offset by paydowns, the runoff of option ARM loans and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans. High-quality originations for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 included both jumbo and conforming loans, primarily consisting of fixed interest rate loans. Excluding loans insured by U.S. government agencies, both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies showed improvement from December 31, 2014. Nonaccrual loans decreased from December 31, 2014, but remain elevated primarily as a result of loss mitigation activities. Net charge-offs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 remain low, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies.At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm s prime mortgage portfolio included $11.3 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, of mortgage loans insured and/or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, of which $8.5 billion and $9.7 billion, respectively, were 30 days or more past due (of these past due loans, $6.6 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, were 90 days or more past due). The Firm has entered into a settlement regarding loans insured under federal mortgage insurance programs overseen by the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD ), and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs ( VA ); the Firm will continue to monitor exposure on future claim payments for government insured loans, but any financial impact related to exposure on future claims is not expected to be significant and was considered in estimating the  allowance for loan losses. For further discussion of the settlement, see Note 31 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm s prime mortgage portfolio included $17.3 billion and $16.3 billion, respectively, of interest-only loans, which represented 12% and 15%, respectively, of the prime mortgage portfolio. These loans have an interest-only payment period generally followed by an adjustable-rate or fixed-rate fully amortizing payment period to maturity and are typically originated as higher-balance loans to higher-income borrowers. To date, losses on this portfolio generally have been consistent with the broader prime mortgage portfolio and the Firm s expectations. The Firm continues to monitor the risks associated with these loans.Subprime mortgages continued to decrease due to portfolio runoff. Early-stage and late-stage delinquencies have improved from December 31, 2014. Net charge-offs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 have benefited from improvement in home prices and delinquencies compared with the prior year.Auto: Auto loans increased compared with December 31, 2014 as new originations outpaced paydowns and payoffs. Nonaccrual loans decreased compared with December 31, 2014. Net charge-offs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 increased compared with the same periods of the prior year as a result of higher loan balances and a moderate increase in loss severity. The auto loan portfolio predominantly consists of prime-quality credits.Business banking: Business banking loans increased compared with December 31, 2014 as new originations outpaced paydowns and payoffs. Nonaccrual loans decreased compared with December 31, 2014. Net charge-offs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 decreased from the same periods of the prior year.Student and other: Student and other loans decreased from December 31, 2014, due primarily to the runoff of the student loan portfolio. Student nonaccrual loans decreased from December 31, 2014. Net charge-offs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 decreased from the same periods of the prior year.Purchased credit-impaired loans: PCI loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction decreased as the portfolio continues to run off.As of September 30, 2015, approximately 14% of the option ARM PCI loans were delinquent and approximately 64% of the portfolio has been modified into fixed-rate, fully amortizing loans. Substantially all of the remaining loans are making amortizing payments, although such payments are not necessarily fully amortizing. This latter group of loans is subject to the risk of payment shock due to future payment recast. Default rates generally increase on option ARM loans when payment recast results in a payment increase. The expected increase in default rates is considered in the Firm s quarterly impairment assessment. 50The following table provides a summary of lifetime principal loss estimates included in either the nonaccretable difference or the allowance for loan losses.(a)Includes the original nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting of $30.5 billion for principal losses plus additional principal losses recognized subsequent to acquisition through the provision and allowance for loan losses. The remaining nonaccretable difference for principal losses was $1.6 billion and $2.3 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.(b)Life-to-date ( LTD ) liquidation losses represent both realization of loss upon loan resolution and any principal forgiven upon modification. Current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loansThe current estimated average loan-to-value ( LTV ) ratio for residential real estate loans retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, was 60% at September 30, 2015, compared with 61% at December 31, 2014.The following table presents the current estimated LTV ratios for PCI loans, as well as the ratios of the carrying value of the underlying loans to the current estimated collateral value. Because such loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratios of the carrying value to the current estimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimated LTV ratios, which are based on the unpaid principal balances. The estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates.(a)Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated at least quarterly based on home valuation models that utilize nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates; such models incorporate actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not available.(b)Represents current estimated combined LTV for junior home equity liens, which considers all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property. All other products are presented without consideration of subordinate liens on the property.(c)Net carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of acquisition and is also net of the allowance for loan losses at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, of $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion for prime mortgage, $49 million and $194 million for option ARMs, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion for home equity, respectively, and $180 million for subprime mortgage at December 31, 2014. There was no allowance for loan losses for subprime mortgage at September 30, 2015.(d)The current period ratio has been updated to include the effect of any outstanding senior lien related to a property for which the Firm holds the junior home equity lien. The prior period ratio has been revised to conform with the current presentation.The current estimated average LTV ratios were 74% and 81% for California and Florida PCI loans, respectively, at September 30, 2015, compared with 77% and 88%, respectively, at December 31, 2014. Average LTV ratios have declined consistent with recent improvements in home prices. Although home prices have improved, home prices in most areas of California and Florida are still lower than at the peak of the housing market; this continues to negatively affect current estimated average LTV ratios and the ratio of net carrying value to current estimated collateral value for loans in the PCI portfolio. For further information on current estimated LTVs on residential real estate loans, see Note 13. Geographic composition of residential real estate loansFor information on the geographic composition of the Firm s residential real estate loans, see Note 13.Loan modification activities   residential real estate loansThe performance of modified loans generally differs by product type due to differences in both the credit quality and the types of modifications provided. Performance metrics for modifications to the residential real estate portfolio, excluding PCI loans, that have been seasoned more than nine months show weighted-average redefault rates of 19% for senior lien home equity, 22% for junior lien home equity, 17% for prime mortgages including option ARMs, and 29% for subprime mortgages. The cumulative performance metrics for modifications to the PCI residential real estate portfolio that have been seasoned more than nine months show weighted average redefault 51rates of 20% for home equity, 18% for prime mortgages, 16% for option ARMs and 33% for subprime mortgages. The favorable performance of the PCI option ARM modifications is the result of a targeted proactive program which fixed the borrower s payment to the amount at the point of modification. The cumulative redefault rates reflect the performance of modifications completed under both the Home Affordable Modification Program ( HAMP ) and the Firm s proprietary modification programs (primarily the Firm s modification program that was modeled after HAMP) from October 1, 2009, through September 30, 2015.Certain loans that were modified under HAMP and the Firm s proprietary modification programs have interest rate reset provisions ( step-rate modifications ). Interest rates on these loans generally began to increase beginning in 2014 by 1% per year, and continue to do so, until the rate reaches a specified cap, typically at a prevailing market interest rate for a fixed-rate loan as of the modification date. The carrying value of non-PCI loans modified in step-rate modifications was $4 billion at September 30, 2015, with $0.5 billion that have experienced or are scheduled to experience the initial interest rate increase in 2015 and $1 billion that are scheduled to experience the initial rate increase in each of 2016 and 2017. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans modified in step-rate modifications was $10 billion at September 30, 2015, with $1 billion that have experienced or are scheduled to experience the initial interest rate increase in 2015, and $3 billion and $2 billion scheduled to experience the initial interest rate increase in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The impact of these potential interest rate increases is considered in the Firm s allowance for loan losses. The Firm continues to monitor this risk exposure to ensure that it is appropriately considered in the allowance for loan losses.The following table presents information as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, relating to modified retained residential real estate loans for which concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. For further information on modifications for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, see Note 13. (a)Amounts represent the carrying value of modified residential real estate loans.(b)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, $4.2 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae in accordance with the standards of the appropriate government agency (i.e., FHA, VA, RHS) are not included in the table above. When such loans perform subsequent to modification in accordance with Ginnie Mae guidelines, they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to foreclosure. For additional information about sales of loans in securitization transactions with Ginnie Mae, see Note 15.(c)Amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of modified PCI loans.(d)As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, nonaccrual loans included $2.6 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs ) for which the borrowers were less than 90 days past due. For additional information about loans modified in a TDR that are on nonaccrual status, see Note 13.Nonperforming assetsThe following table presents information as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, about consumer, excluding credit card, nonperforming assets.(a)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.6 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; (2) student loans insured by U.S. government 52agencies under the FFELP of $289 million and $367 million, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; and (3) real estate owned insured by U.S. government agencies of $327 million and $462 million, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.(b)Excludes PCI loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or that of individual loans within the pools, is not meaningful. Because the Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, they are all considered to be performing.Nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolio totaled $4.9 billion at September 30, 2015, of which 30% were greater than 150 days past due, compared with nonaccrual residential real estate loans of $5.8 billion at December 31, 2014, of which 32% were greater than 150 days past due. In the aggregate, the unpaid principal balance of residential real estate loans greater than 150 days past due was charged down by approximately 46% and 50% to the estimated net realizable value of the collateral at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. Active and suspended foreclosure: For information on loans that were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure, see Note 13.Nonaccrual loans: The following table presents changes in consumer, excluding credit card, nonaccrual loans for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.(a)Other reductions includes loan sales. Credit CardTotal credit card loans decreased from December 31, 2014 due to seasonality, sales of non-core loans and the transfer of commercial card loans to the CIB. The 30+ day delinquency rate decreased to 1.38% at September 30, 2015, from 1.44% at December 31, 2014, and remains near record lows. For the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, the net charge-off rates were 2.41% and 2.52%, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, the net charge-off rates were 2.54% and 2.77%, respectively. Charge-offs improved compared with the prior year as a result of lower delinquent loans. The credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification. For information on the geographic composition of the Firm s credit card loans, see Note 13.Modifications of credit card loansAt September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm had $1.6 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of credit card loans outstanding that have been modified in TDRs. These balances included both credit card loans with modified payment terms and credit card loans that reverted back to their pre-modification payment terms because the cardholder did not comply with the modified payment terms. The decrease in modified credit card loans outstanding from December 31, 2014, was attributable to a reduction in new modifications as well as ongoing payments and charge-offs on previously modified credit card loans.Consistent with the Firm s policy, all credit card loans typically remain on accrual status until charged-off. However, the Firm establishes an allowance, which is offset against loans and charged to interest income, for the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee income.For additional information about loan modification programs to borrowers, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 48 53 and Note 13.53WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO The Firm s wholesale businesses are exposed to credit risk through underwriting, lending and trading activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through various operating services such as cash management and clearing activities. A portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm s wholesale businesses is generally retained on the balance sheet. The Firm distributes a significant percentage of the loans it originates into the market as part of its syndicated loan business and to manage portfolio concentrations and credit risk.As of September 30, 2015, wholesale credit exposure (primarily CIB, CB and AM), excluding select downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio, continued to experience a generally favorable credit environment, characterized by stable credit quality trends with low levels of criticized exposure, nonaccrual loans and charge-offs.   (a)Receivables from customers and other include $16.8 billion and $28.8 billion of margin loans at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, to prime and retail brokerage customers; these are classified in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated balance sheets.(b)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold through credit derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperforming wholesale credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. For additional information, see Credit derivatives on page  59, and Note 5.(c)Excludes assets acquired in loan satisfactions.54The following tables present the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale credit portfolio as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The ratings scale is based on the Firm s internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody s.(a)Represents loans held-for-sale, primarily related to syndicated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio, and loans at fair value.(b)These derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.(c)The notional amounts are presented on a net basis by underlying reference entity and the ratings profile shown is based on the ratings of the reference entity on which protection has been purchased. (d)Predominantly all of the credit derivatives entered into by the Firm where it has purchased protection, including Credit portfolio management derivatives, are executed with investment grade counterparties.(e)The maturity profile of retained loans, lending-related commitments and derivative receivables is based on the remaining contractual maturity. Derivative contracts that are in a receivable position at September 30, 2015, may become payable prior to maturity based on their cash flow profile or changes in market conditions.Wholesale credit exposure   selected industry exposuresThe Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry exposures, paying particular attention to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed criticized align with the U.S. banking regulators  definition of criticized exposures, which consist  of the special mention, substandard and doubtful categories. The total criticized component of the portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, was $12.3 billion at September 30, 2015, compared with $10.1 billion at December 31, 2014, driven by select downgrades, including within the Oil & Gas portfolio.55Below are summaries of the top 25 industry exposures as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. For additional information on industry concentrations, see Note 5 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.56(a)The industry rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2014, are based on the industry rankings of the corresponding exposures at September 30, 2015, not actual rankings of such exposures at December 31, 2014.(b)In addition to the credit risk exposure to states and municipal governments (both U.S. and non-U.S.) at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, noted above, the Firm held: $7.1 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively, of trading securities; $32.7 billion and $30.1 billion, respectively, of available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities; and $12.7 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively, of HTM securities, issued by U.S. state and municipal governments. For further information, see Note 3 and Note 11.(c)All other includes: individuals, private education and civic organizations; SPEs; and holding companies, representing approximately 57%, 30% and 4%, respectively, at September 30, 2015, and 56%, 30% and 5%, respectively, at December 31, 2014.(d)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of  Credit portfolio management derivatives net notional  held against derivative receivables or loans and  Liquid securities and other cash collateral held against derivative receivables .(e)Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold through credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. The all other category includes purchased credit protection on certain credit indices.The Firm is actively monitoring significant exposures and/or industries that present actual or potential credit concerns. Exposure to the Oil & Gas industry was approximately 5.3% and 5.4% of the Firm s total wholesale exposure as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. Exposure to the Oil & Gas industry decreased by $1.1 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $42.1 billion, of which $13.8  billion was drawn. The portfolio largely consisted of exposure in North America, and was concentrated in the Exploration and Production sub-sector. Approximately 66% and 68% of the exposure in the Oil & Gas portfolio was investment-grade as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively.57Exposure to the Metals/Mining industry was approximately 1.8% and 1.9% of the Firm s total wholesale exposure as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. Exposure to the Metals/Mining industry decreased by $414 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $14.6 billion, of which $5.2 billion was drawn. The portfolio largely consisted of exposure in North America, and was concentrated in the Steel and Diversified Mining sub-sectors. Approximately 53% and 55% of the exposure in the Metals/Mining portfolio was investment-grade as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.LoansIn the normal course of its wholesale business, the Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals. The Firm actively manages its wholesale credit exposure. One way of managing credit risk is through secondary market sales of loans and lending-related commitments. For further discussion on loans, including information on credit quality indicators and sales of loans, see Note 13. The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan portfolio for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.The following table presents net charge-offs/recoveries, which are defined as gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. The amounts in the table below do not include gains or losses from sales of nonaccrual loans. Lending-related commitmentsThe Firm uses lending-related financial instruments, such as commitments (including revolving credit facilities) and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amounts of these financial instruments represent the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparties draw down on these commitments or the Firm fulfills its obligations under these guarantees, and the counterparties subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts.In the Firm s view, the total contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related commitments is not representative of the Firm s likely actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these commitments, the Firm has established a  loan-equivalent  amount for each commitment; this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected, based on average portfolio historical experience, to become drawn upon in an event of a default by an obligor. The loan-equivalent amount of the Firm s wholesale lending-related commitments was $206.7 billion and $216.5 billion as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.Derivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instruments predominantly for market-making activities. Derivatives enable clients to manage exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to manage its own credit and other market risk exposure. For further discussion of derivative contracts, see Note 5.The following table summarizes the net derivative receivables for the periods presented.Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance sheets were $68.7 billion and $79.0 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. These amounts represent the fair value of the derivative contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the 58Firm. However, in management s view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk should also take into consideration additional liquid securities (primarily U.S. government and agency securities and other G7 government bonds) and other cash collateral held by the Firm aggregating $19.7 billion and $19.6 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, that may be used as security when the fair value of the client s exposure is in the Firm s favor.In addition to the collateral described in the preceding paragraph, the Firm also holds additional collateral (primarily cash, G7 government securities, other liquid government-agency and guaranteed securities, and corporate debt and equity securities) delivered by clients at  the initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency and collateral that the Firm has agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Although this collateral does not reduce the balances and is not included in the table above, it is available as security against potential exposure that could arise should the fair value of the client s derivative transactions move in the Firm s favor. As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm held $45.4 billion and $48.6 billion, respectively, of this additional collateral. The derivative receivables fair value, net of all collateral, also does not include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit. For additional information on the Firm s use of collateral agreements, see Note 5.The following table summarizes the ratings profile by derivative counterparty of the Firm s derivative receivables, including credit derivatives, net of other liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated. The ratings scale is based on the Firm s internal ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody s.As previously noted, the Firm uses collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. The percentage of the Firm s derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements   excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically covered by collateral agreements due to their short maturity   was 87% and 88% for  September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.Credit derivativesThe Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in its capacity as a market-maker, and second, as an end-user, to manage the Firm s own credit risk associated with various exposures. For a detailed description of credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 5 of this Form 10-Q, and Note 6 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. Credit portfolio management activitiesIncluded in the Firm s end-user activities are credit derivatives used to mitigate the credit risk associated with traditional lending activities (loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty exposure in the Firm s wholesale businesses (collectively,  credit portfolio management  activities). Information on credit portfolio management activities is provided in the table below. For further information on derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, see Credit derivatives in Note 5 of this Form 10-Q, and Note 6 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities Notional amount of protection purchased and sold (a)(in millions)September 30, 2015 December 31, 2014Credit derivatives used to manage:   Loans and lending-related commitments$2,427 $2,047Derivative receivables22,097 24,656Total net protection purchased24,524 26,703Total net protection sold   Credit portfolio management derivatives notional, net$24,524 $26,703(a)Amounts are presented net, considering the Firm s net protection purchased or sold with respect to each underlying reference entity or index.59ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSESJPMorgan Chase s allowance for loan losses covers both the consumer (primarily scored) portfolio and wholesale (risk-rated) portfolio. The allowance represents management s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm s loan portfolio. Management also determines an allowance for wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments.For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for credit losses and related management judgments, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 81 83 and Note 14 of this Form 10-Q, and Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 161 165 and Note 15 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm, and discussed with the Directors  Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of September 30, 2015, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate and sufficient to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The consumer, excluding credit card, allowance for loan losses decreased from December 31, 2014, due to a reduction in the residential real estate portfolio allowance, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies, as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates. For additional information about delinquencies and nonaccrual loans in the consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 48 53 and Note 13.The credit card allowance for loan losses was relatively unchanged from December 31, 2014, reflecting stable credit quality trends. For additional information about credit trends in the credit card loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 48 53 and Note 13.The wholesale allowance for credit losses increased from December 31, 2014, reflecting the impact of select downgrades, including within the Oil & Gas portfolio. Excluding the Oil & Gas portfolio, the credit environment continued to be generally favorable as evidenced by low charge-off rates and stable credit quality trends.60Note: In the table above, the financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans are non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 14 16.(a)Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool (e.g., upon liquidation). (b)Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR. The asset-specific credit card allowance for loan losses modified in a TDR is calculated based on the loans  original contractual interest rates and does not consider any incremental penalty rates.(c)The allowance for lending-related commitments is reported in other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.(d)The Firm s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance.61Provision for credit lossesFor the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, the provision for credit losses was $682 million and $2.6 billion, respectively, compared with $757 million and $2.3 billion, respectively, in the prior year periods.The total consumer provision for credit losses decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2015, due to a larger reduction in the residential real estate portfolio allowance for loan losses, reflecting the continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies as well as  increased granularity in the impairment estimates, and lower net charge-offs. The total consumer provision for credit losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 reflected lower net charge-offs in the current year period. The wholesale provision for credit losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 reflected the impact of select downgrades, including within the Oil & Gas portfolio.62MARKET RISK MANAGEMENTMarket risk is the potential for adverse changes in the value of the Firm s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, implied volatilities or credit spreads. For a discussion of the Firm s market risk management organization, risk identification and classification, tools used to measure risk, and risk monitoring and control, see Market Risk Management on pages 131 136 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. Value-at-risk JPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to estimate the potential loss from adverse market moves in a normal market environment. The Firm has a single overarching VaR model framework used for calculating Risk Management VaR and Regulatory VaR.Since VaR is based on historical data, it is an imperfect measure of market risk exposure and potential losses, and it is not used to estimate the impact of stressed market conditions or to manage any impact from potential stress events. In addition, based on their reliance on available historical data, limited time horizons, and other factors, VaR measures are inherently limited in their ability to measure certain risks and to predict losses, particularly those associated with market illiquidity and sudden or severe shifts in market conditions. The Firm therefore considers other measures in addition to VaR, such as stress testing, to capture and manage its market risk positions.In addition, for certain products, specific risk parameters are not captured in VaR due to the lack of inherent liquidity and availability of appropriate historical data. The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for these and other products when daily time series are not available. It is likely that using an actual price-based time series for these products, if available, would affect the VaR results presented. The Firm uses alternative methods to capture and measure those risk parameters that are not otherwise captured in VaR, including economic-value stress testing and nonstatistical measures. For further information, see Market Risk Management on pages 131 136 of the 2014 Annual Report.The Firm s VaR model calculations are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm s portfolios, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm s modeling techniques and other factors. Such changes will also affect historical comparisons of VaR results. Model changes go through a review and approval process by the Model Review Group prior to implementation into the operating environment. For further information, see Model risk on page 139 of the 2014 Annual Report.The Firm s Risk Management VaR is calculated assuming a one-day holding period and an expected tail-loss methodology which approximates a 95% confidence level. For risk management purposes, the Firm believes this methodology provides a stable measure of VaR that closely aligns to the day-to-day risk management decisions made by the lines of business and provides the necessary and appropriate information to respond to risk events on a daily basis. Separately, the Firm calculates a daily aggregated VaR in accordance with regulatory rules ( Regulatory VaR ), which is used to derive the Firm s regulatory VaR-based capital requirements under Basel III. For further information regarding the key differences between Risk Management VaR and Regulatory VaR, see page 133 of the 2014 Annual Report. For additional information on Regulatory VaR and the other components of market risk regulatory capital for the Firm (e.g. VaR-based measure, stressed VaR-based measure and the respective backtesting), see JPMorgan Chase s Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm s website:(http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).63The table below shows the results of the Firm s Risk Management VaR measure using a 95% confidence level.(a)Average portfolio VaR and period-end portfolio VaR were less than the sum of the VaR of the components described above, due to portfolio diversification. The diversification effect reflects the fact that the risks were not perfectly correlated.(b)Designated as not meaningful ( NM ), because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, and hence it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio-diversification effect.As presented in the table above, average Total VaR increased for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared with the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher CIB VaR. Overall, higher volatility in the one year historical look-back time series and a changing risk profile contributed to an increase in CIB average Trading VaR by $23 million, predominantly due to an increase in Fixed Income VaR and, to a lesser extent, the impact from Equities VaR.The average total VaR for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 increased relative to the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by CIB VaR reflecting the higher market volatility and a changing exposure profile in the current year versus the equivalent period in 2014.  The Firm continues to enhance the VaR model calculations and time series inputs related to certain asset-backed products.The Firm s average total VaR diversification benefit was $11 million, or 20% of the sum, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared with $5 million, or 14% of the sum, for the comparable 2014 period. VaR exposure can vary significantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change.64VaR back-testing The Firm evaluates the effectiveness of its VaR methodology by back-testing, which compares the daily Risk Management VaR results with the daily gains and losses recognized on market-risk related revenue. The Firm s definition of market risk-related gains and losses is consistent with the definition used by the banking regulators under Basel III. Under this definition market risk-related gains and losses are defined as: gains and losses on the Firm s Risk Management positions, excluding fees, commissions, certain valuation adjustments (e.g., liquidity and DVA), net interest income, and gains and losses arising from intraday trading.The following chart presents the daily market risk-related gains and losses on the Firm s Risk Management positions for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. As the chart presents market risk-related gains and losses related to those positions included in the Firm s Risk Management VaR, the results in the table below differ from the results of back-testing disclosed in the Market Risk section of the Firm s Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are based on Regulatory VaR applied to covered positions. The chart shows that for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Firm observed 3 VaR band breaks and posted market-risk related gains on 100 of the 194 days. The Firm observed 1 VaR band break and posted market-risk related gains on 36 of the 66 days for the three months ended September 30, 2015.65Earnings-at-riskThe VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the economic sensitivity of the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure on the Firm s reported net income is also important as interest rate risk represents one of the Firm s significant market risks. Interest rate risk arises not only from trading activities but also from the Firm s traditional banking activities, which include extension of loans and credit facilities, taking deposits and issuing debt. The Firm evaluates its structural interest rate risk exposure through earnings-at-risk, which measures the extent to which changes in interest rates will affect the Firm s net interest income and interest rate-sensitive fees. Earnings-at-risk excludes the impact of CIB's markets-based activities and MSRs, as these sensitivities are captured under VaR.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in structural interest rate-sensitive revenue under a variety of instantaneous interest rate shock scenarios for interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollar and other currencies ( non-U.S. dollar  currencies). Earnings-at-risk scenarios estimate the potential change in this revenue, and the corresponding impact to the Firm s pretax net interest income excluding CIB's markets-based activities and MSRs over the following 12 months utilizing multiple assumptions as described below. These scenarios may consider the impact on exposures as a result of changes in interest rates, as well as pricing sensitivities of deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The scenarios include forecasted balance sheet changes, as well as modeled prepayment and reinvestment behavior, but do not include assumptions about actions which could be taken by the Firm in response to any such instantaneous rate changes. Mortgage prepayment assumptions are based on current interest rates compared with underlying contractual rates, the time since origination, and other factors which are updated periodically based on historical experience. The Firm s earnings-at-risk scenarios are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm s balance sheet, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm s simulation and other factors. Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm conducts earnings-at-risk simulations for assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars separately from assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies in order to enhance the Firm s ability to monitor structural interest rate risk from non-U.S. dollar exposures. The Firm s U.S. dollar sensitivity is presented in the table below. The result of the non-U.S. dollar sensitivity scenario was not material to the Firm s earnings-at-risk at September 30, 2015.JPMorgan Chase s 12-month pretax net interest income sensitivity profiles(Excludes the impact of CIB s markets-based activities and MSRs)(in billions)Instantaneous change in ratesSeptember 30, 2015+200bps+100bps-100bps-200bpsU.S. dollar$5.0$3.0NM(a) NM(a) (a)Downward 100- and 200-basis-points parallel shocks result in a federal funds target rate of zero and negative three- and six-month U.S. Treasury rates. The earnings-at-risk results of such a low probability scenario are not meaningful.The Firm s benefit to rising rates on U.S. dollar assets and liabilities is largely a result of reinvesting at higher yields and assets re-pricing at a faster pace than deposits.Separately, another U.S. dollar interest rate scenario used by the Firm   involving a steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis points and short-term rates staying at current levels   results in a 12-month pretax benefit to net interest income excluding CIB's markets-based activities and MSRs of approximately $600 million. The increase in net interest income under this scenario reflects the Firm reinvesting at the higher long-term rates, with funding costs remaining unchanged. The result of the comparable non-U.S. dollar analysis is not material to the Firm. 66COUNTRY RISK MANAGEMENTCountry risk is the risk that a sovereign event or action alters the value or terms of contractual obligations of obligors, counterparties and issuers or adversely affects markets related to a particular country. The Firm has a comprehensive country risk management framework for assessing country risks, determining risk tolerance, and measuring and monitoring direct country exposures in the Firm. The Country Risk Management group is responsible for developing guidelines and policies for managing country risk in both emerging and developed countries. The Country Risk Management group actively monitors the various portfolios giving rise to country risk to ensure the Firm s country risk exposures are diversified and that exposure levels are appropriate given the Firm s strategy and risk tolerance relative to a country.For a discussion of the Firm s Country Risk Management organization, and country risk identification, measurement, monitoring and control, see pages 137 138 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The following table presents the Firm s top 20 exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) as of September 30, 2015. The selection of countries is based solely on the Firm s largest total exposures by country, based on the Firm s internal country risk management approach, and does not represent the Firm s view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions. Country exposures may fluctuate from period-to-period due to normal client activity and market flows.(a)Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable, net of collateral and the allowance for loan losses, deposits with banks, acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit net of participations, and undrawn commitments to extend credit. Excludes intra-day and operating exposures, such as from settlement and clearing activities.(b)Includes market-making inventory, AFS securities, counterparty exposure on derivative and securities financings net of collateral and hedging.(c)Includes single-name and index and tranched credit derivatives for which one or more of the underlying reference entities is in a country listed in the above table.(d)Includes capital invested in local entities and physical commodity inventory.67OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENTOperational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems or due to external events that are neither market nor credit-related. For a discussion of JPMorgan Chase s Operational Risk Management, see pages 141 143 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual report.CybersecurityThe Firm devotes significant resources maintaining and regularly updating its systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of the Firm s computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets against attempts by unauthorized parties to obtain access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage. Third parties with which the Firm does business or that facilitate the Firm s business activities (e.g., vendors, exchanges, clearing houses, central depositories, and financial intermediaries) could also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of their systems, misconduct by the employees of such parties, or cyberattacks which could affect their ability to deliver a product or service to the Firm or result in lost or compromised information of the Firm or its clients. In addition, customers with which or whom the Firm does business can also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, particularly when their activities and systems are beyond the Firm s own security and control systems. Customers will generally be responsible for losses incurred due to their own failure to maintain the security of their own systems and processes. The Firm and several other U.S. financial institutions have experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced unauthorized parties which are intended to disrupt online banking services. The Firm and its clients are also regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious code and viruses. On September 10, 2014, the Firm disclosed that a cyberattack against the Firm had occurred, as a result of which certain user contact information and internal JPMorgan Chase information relating to such users had been compromised. No account information for such affected customers   account numbers, passwords, user IDs, dates of birth or Social Security numbers   was compromised during the attack. The Firm is cooperating with government and law enforcement agencies in connection with their continuing investigation of the incident. The cyberattacks experienced to date have not resulted in any material disruption to the Firm s operations nor have they had a material adverse effect on the Firm s results of operations. The Firm s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee are regularly apprised regarding the cybersecurity policies and practices of the Firm as well as the Firm s efforts regarding significant cybersecurity events.Cybersecurity attacks, like the one experienced by the Firm, highlight the need for continued and increased cooperation among businesses and the government, and the Firm continues to work to strengthen its partnerships with the appropriate government and law enforcement agencies and other businesses, including the Firm s third-party service providers, in order to understand the full spectrum of cybersecurity risks in the environment, enhance defenses and improve resiliency against cybersecurity threats.The Firm has established, and continues to establish, defenses to mitigate other possible future attacks. Compared with 2014, the Firm expects its annual cybersecurity spending to be nearly double in 2015, and to continue to increase in 2016, in order to enhance its defense capabilities. These enhancements include more robust testing, advanced analytics, improved technology coverage, and a program to increase employee awareness about cybersecurity risks and best practices.68CAPITAL MANAGEMENTThe following discussion of JPMorgan Chase s capital management highlights developments since December 31, 2014, and should be read in conjunction with the Capital Management section on pages 146 155 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.A strong capital position is essential to the Firm s business strategy and competitive position. The Firm s capital strategy focuses on long-term stability, which enables the  Firm to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment.In its capital management, the Firm uses three primary disciplines, which are further described below: Regulatory capital Economic risk capital Line of business equityRegulatory capitalThe following tables present the Firm s Transitional and Fully Phased-In risk-based and leverage-based capital metrics under both the Basel III Standardized and Advanced Approaches. For information on well-capitalized standards, see page 71.Note: As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the lower of the Standardized or Advanced capital ratios under the transitional rules in the table above represents the Firm s Collins Floor, as discussed in Risk-based capital regulatory minimums on page 71.  If the fully phased-in Basel III rules were in effect as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the lower of the fully phased-in Standardized or Advanced capital ratios in the table above would be the Collins Floor. Also included in the tables are the transitional and fully phased-in regulatory minimums, which as of September 30, 2015, include the impact of the U.S. Global Systemically Important Banks ( G-SIB ) final rule issued on July 20, 2015, as described further below on page 71.(a)As the Tier 1 leverage ratio is not a risk-based measure of capital, the ratios are calculated in the same manner under both the Transitional and Fully Phased-In rules.(b)Effective January 1, 2015, Basel III Standardized RWA is calculated under the Basel III definition of the Standardized approach. Prior periods were based on Basel I with 2.5.(c)Represents the minimum capital ratios for 2015 currently applicable to the Firm under Basel III.(d)Represents the minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm on a fully phased-in Basel III basis, including the final U.S. G-SIB surcharge estimated for the Firm by the Federal Reserve in its publication of the U.S. Final G-SIB Rule on July 20, 2015. These minimums will be fully phased-in effective January 1, 2019. For additional information on the G-SIB surcharge, see page 73.(e)In the case of SLR, the fully phased-in minimum ratio is effective beginning January 1, 2018.69Basel III overviewBasel III capital rules, for large and internationally active U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm and its insured depository institution ( IDI ) subsidiaries, revised, among other things, the definition of capital and introduced a new common equity Tier 1 capital ( CET1 capital ) requirement. Basel III presents two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets ( RWA )  a general (Standardized) approach, which replaced Basel I RWA effective January 1, 2015 ( Basel III Standardized ), and an advanced approach, which replaced Basel II RWA ( Basel III Advanced )  and sets out minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards. Certain of the requirements of Basel III are subject to phase-in periods that began on January 1, 2014 and continue through the end of 2018 ( transitional period ) as described below.Basel III also includes a requirement for Advanced Approach banking organizations, including the Firm, to calculate a supplementary leverage ratio ( SLR ). Certain U.S. bank holding companies, including the Firm, are required to have a minimum SLR of at least 5% and IDI subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., to have a minimum SLR of at least 6%, both beginning January 1, 2018. For additional information on the SLR, see page 73.Basel III TransitionalBasel III Transitional capital requirements became effective on January 1, 2014, and will become fully phased-in on January 1, 2019. The following table presents a reconciliation of the Firm s Basel III Transitional CET1 capital to the Firm s estimated Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital as of September 30, 2015.(in millions)September 30, 2015Transitional CET1 capital$173,577AOCI phase-in(a)790CET1 capital deduction phase-in(b)(1,303)Intangibles deduction phase-in(c)(555)Other adjustments to CET1 capital(d)(79)Fully Phased-In CET1 capital$172,430(a)Includes the remaining balance of AOCI related to AFS debt securities and defined benefit pension and other postretirement employee benefit ( OPEB ) plans that will qualify as Basel III CET1 capital upon full phase-in.(b)Predominantly includes regulatory adjustments related to changes in FVA/DVA, as well as CET1 deductions for defined benefit pension plan assets and deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards.(c)Relates to intangible assets, other than goodwill and MSRs, that are required to be deducted from CET1 capital upon full phase-in.(d)Includes minority interest and the Firm s investments in its own CET1 capital instruments. Basel III Fully Phased-InBasel III capital rules will become fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, at which point the Firm will continue to calculate its capital ratios under both the Basel III Standardized and Advanced Approaches. While the Firm has imposed Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In RWA limits on its lines of business, the Firm continues to manage each of the businesses (including line of business equity allocations), as well as the corporate functions, primarily on a Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In basis.The Firm s capital, RWA and capital ratios that are presented under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In rules and the Firm s and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. s and Chase Bank USA, N.A. s SLRs calculated under the Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules are non-GAAP financial measures. However, such measures are used by banking regulators, investors and analysts to assess the Firm s capital position and to compare the Firm s capital to that of other financial services companies.The Firm s estimates of its Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In capital, RWA and capital ratios and of the Firm s, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. s, and Chase Bank USA, N.A. s SLRs reflect management s current understanding of the U.S. Basel III rules based on the current published rules and on the application of such rules to the Firm s businesses as currently conducted. The actual impact on the Firm s capital ratios and SLR as of the effective date of the rules may differ from the Firm s current estimates depending on changes the Firm may make to its businesses in the future, further implementation guidance from the regulators, and regulatory approval of certain of the Firm s internal risk models (or, alternatively, regulatory disapproval of the Firm s internal risk models that have previously been conditionally approved).70Risk-based capital regulatory minimumsAs noted above the Basel III rules include minimum capital ratio requirements that are subject to phase-in periods through the end of 2018. The capital adequacy of the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries, both during the transitional period and upon full phase-in, is evaluated against the Basel III approach (Standardized or Advanced) which results, for each quarter, in the lower ratio (the  Collins Floor ), as required by the Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition to the regulatory minimum capital requirements, certain banking organizations, including the Firm, will be required to hold additional amounts of capital to serve as a  capital conservation buffer . The capital conservation buffer is intended to be used to absorb potential losses in times of financial or economic stress. If not maintained, the Firm could be limited in the amount of capital that may be distributed, including dividends and common equity repurchases. The capital conservation buffer requires an additional 2.5% of CET1 capital, as well as additional levels of capital in the form of a G-SIB surcharge. On July 20, 2015, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule requiring G-SIBs to calculate their G-SIB surcharge, on an annual basis, under two separately prescribed methods, and to be subject to the higher of the two. The first method reflects the G-SIB surcharge as prescribed by Basel rules, and is calculated across five criteria: size, cross-jurisdictional activity, interconnectedness, complexity and substitutability. The Firm s G-SIB buffer as calculated under this method is currently estimated to be 2.5%. The second method modifies the requirements to include a measure of short-term wholesale funding in place of substitutability, and introduces a G-SIB score  multiplication factor.  In its July 20, 2015 rule release, the Federal Reserve estimated the Firm s G-SIB surcharge to be 4.5% of CET1 capital based on its G-SIB score as of December 31, 2014.Based on the Federal Reserve s estimates, the Firm s fully phased-in capital conservation buffer is 7%. The capital conservation buffer will be phased-in beginning January 1, 2016.  As well as meeting the minimum capital ratio requirements, inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, the Firm must, in order to be considered well capitalized pursuant to regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, maintain a minimum 10% Total Capital requirement. Each of the Firm's IDI subsidiaries must maintain a minimum 6.5% CET1 standard to meet the definition of  well capitalized  under the Prompt Corrective Action  ( PCA ) requirements of the FDICIA for IDI subsidiaries. The PCA standards for IDI subsidiaries were effective January 1, 2015.       Capital A reconciliation of total stockholders  equity to Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Basel III Advanced and Standardized Fully Phased-In Total capital is presented in the table below. Beginning July 21, 2015, the Volcker Rule provisions regarding the prohibitions against proprietary trading and holding ownership interests in or sponsoring  covered funds  became effective. The deduction from Basel III Tier 1 capital associated with the permissible holdings of covered funds acquired after December 31, 2013 was not material as of September 30, 2015. For additional information on the components of regulatory capital, see Note 20.Risk-based capital components (in millions)September 30, 2015Total stockholders  equity$245,728Less: Preferred stock26,068Common stockholders  equity219,660Less: Goodwill(a)44,411Other intangible assets(a)925Other CET1 capital adjustments1,894CET1 capital172,430Preferred stock26,068Less: Other Tier 1 adjustments341Tier 1 capital$198,157Long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2 capital$18,112Qualifying allowance for credit losses14,201Other(107)Standardized Fully Phased-In Tier 2 capital$32,206Standardized Fully Phased-in Total capital$230,363Adjustment in qualifying allowance for credit losses for Advanced Tier 2 capital(10,499)Advanced Fully Phased-In Tier 2 capital$21,707Advanced Fully Phased-In Total capital$219,864  (a)Goodwill and other intangible assets are net of any associated deferred tax liabilities.71Capital rollforwardThe following table presents the changes in Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital for the nine months ended September 30, 2015.Nine months ended September 30,(in millions)2015Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at December 31, 2014$164,514Net income applicable to common equity17,911Dividends declared on common stock(4,838)Net purchase of treasury stock(2,685)Changes in additional paid-in capital(954)Changes related to AOCI(1,507)Adjustment related to FVA/DVA(732)Other721Increase in Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital7,916Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at September 30, 2015$172,430  Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at December 31, 2014$184,572Change in CET1 capital7,916Net issuance of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock6,005Other(336)Increase in Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital13,585Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at September 30, 2015$198,157  Standardized Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2014$32,224Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2608Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses(606)Other(20)Decrease in Standardized Tier 2 capital(18)Standardized Tier 2 capital at September 30, 2015$32,206Standardized Total capital at September 30, 2015$230,363Advanced Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2014$21,684Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2608Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses(565)Other(20)Increase in Advanced Tier 2 capital23Advanced Tier 2 capital at September 30, 2015$21,707Advanced Total capital at September 30, 2015$219,864 RWA Key differences in the calculation of credit risk RWA between the Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for Basel III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary primarily by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced. Basel III Advanced also includes a measure of operational risk RWA. In addition to the RWA calculated under these methodologies, the Firm may supplement such amounts to incorporate management judgment and feedback from its banking regulators.72RWA rollforwardThe following table presents changes in the components of RWA under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The amounts in the rollforward categories are estimates, based on the predominant driver of the change.(a)Model & data changes refer to movements in levels of RWA as a result of revised methodologies and/or treatment per regulatory guidance (exclusive of rule changes).(b)Portfolio runoff for credit risk RWA reflects reduced risk from position rolloffs in legacy portfolios in Mortgage Banking (primarily under the Advanced framework) and Broker Dealer Services (primarily under the Standardized framework); and for market risk RWA reflects reduced risk from position rolloffs in legacy portfolios in the wholesale businesses.(c)Movement in portfolio levels for credit risk RWA refers to changes in book size, composition, credit quality, and market movements; and for market risk RWA refers to changes in position and market movements.Additional information regarding the Firm s capital ratios, as well as the U.S. federal regulatory capital standards to which the Firm is subject, is presented in Note 20. For further information on the Firm s Basel III measures, see the Firm s Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm s website (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).Supplementary leverage ratioFor additional information on the SLR, see Capital Management on pages 146 155 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of the Firm s Fully Phased-In SLR as of September 30, 2015.(a)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the SLR, includes total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are subject to deduction from Tier 1 capital predominantly comprising disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets.(b)Off-balance sheet exposures are calculated as the average of each of the three month s period-end balances.     As of September 30, 2015, the Firm estimates that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. s and Chase Bank USA, N.A. s Fully Phased-In SLRs are approximately 6.5% and 8.2%, respectively.Regulatory capital outlookThe Firm expects to continue to accrete capital and believes its current capital levels enable it to retain market access, continue its strategy to invest in and grow its businesses and maintain flexibility to distribute excess capital. The Firm  intends to balance return of capital to stockholders with achieving higher capital ratios over time. At September 30, 2015, the Firm's Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In CET1 ratios were the same, and therefore in the next quarter or two, the Firm anticipates either CET1 ratio could become the lower of the two, and thus, the binding constraint. However, the Firm still expects the Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In CET1 ratio to become its Collins Floor, and therefore its binding constraint at some point during 2016. At September 30, 2015, the Firm had exceeded its 2015 year-end Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 target of 11%, and anticipates reaching a Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 ratio of approximately 12% no later than the end of 2018. The Firm intends to manage its capital so that it achieves the required capital levels and composition in line with, or in advance of, the required timetables of current and proposed rules.The Firm s capital targets take into consideration the current U.S. Basel III requirements, including the U.S. G-SIB final rule, and other business factors. These targets may be revised in the future; for example, if the Firm s U.S. G-SIB capital surcharge is determined by its regulators to be lower than 4.5%. Given actions taken in the current year in particular, in reducing non-operating deposits, the Firm estimates its U.S. G-SIB surcharge to be 4% as of September 30, 2015.Minimum Total Loss Absorbing Capacity ( TLAC ) In November 2014, the Financial Stability Board issued a proposal requiring minimum TLAC of 16-20% of a financial institution s RWA and of at least twice its Basel III Tier 1 leverage ratio. The final TLAC proposal is expected to be submitted to the G-20 in advance of the G-20 Summit scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2015. On October 30, 2015, U.S. banking regulators issued an NPR that outlines TLAC requirements specific to G-SIB bank holding companies, including the Firm; the Firm is currently evaluating the impact of the NPR. For additional information on TLAC, see Capital Management on pages 146 155 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.73Economic risk capitalEconomic risk capital is another of the disciplines the Firm uses to assess the capital required to support its businesses. Economic risk capital is a measure of the capital needed to cover JPMorgan Chase s business activities in the event of unexpected losses. The Firm measures economic risk capital using internal risk-assessment methodologies and models based primarily on four risk factors: credit, market, operational and private equity risk, and considers factors, assumptions and inputs that differ from those required to be used for regulatory capital requirements. Accordingly, economic risk capital provides a complementary measure to regulatory capital. As economic risk capital is a separate component of the capital framework for Advanced Approach banking organizations under Basel III, the Firm continues to refine its economic risk capital framework.Line of business equityThe Firm s framework for allocating capital to its business segments (line of business equity) is based on the following objectives: Integrate firmwide and line of business capital management activities; Measure performance consistently across all lines of business; and Provide comparability with peer firms for each of the lines of businessEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration regulatory capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In) and economic risk measures and stand-alone peer comparisons. Capital is also allocated to each line of business for, among other things, goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. ROE is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as key measures of a business segment s performance. On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to its lines of business and updates the equity allocations to its lines of business as refinements are implemented.Capital actions DividendsThe Firm s common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase s earnings outlook, desired dividend payout ratio, capital objectives, and alternative investment opportunities.The Firm s current expectation is to continue to target a dividend payout ratio of approximately 30% of normalized earnings over time. Following receipt on March 11, 2015, of the Federal Reserve s non-objection to the Firm s 2015 capital plan submitted under its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ), the Firm announced that its Board of Directors had increased the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.44 per share, effective with the dividend paid on July 31, 2015. The Firm s dividends will be subject to the Board of Directors  approval at the customary times those dividends are to be declared.For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 22 and Note 27 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Redemption of outstanding trust preferred securitiesOn April 2, 2015, the Firm redeemed $1.5 billion, or 100% of the liquidation amount, of JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIX trust preferred securities. For additional information on the Firm s trust preferred securities, see Note 21 of the 2014 Annual Report.Preferred stockDuring the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Firm issued $1.2 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively, of noncumulative preferred stock. Preferred stock dividends declared were $393 million and $1.1 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. Assuming all preferred stock issuances during the third quarter of 2015 were outstanding for the entire quarter, and dividends were declared on such issuances, preferred stock dividends would have been $412 million for the quarter.For additional information on the Firm s preferred stock, see Note 22 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Common equity During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, warrant holders exercised their right to purchase 11.5 million shares of the Firm s common stock. Under the warrants  net settlement terms, the Firm issued 4.4 million shares of its common stock as a result of these exercises. As of September 30, 2015, 48.3 million warrants remained outstanding, compared with 59.8 million outstanding as of December 31, 2014.Following receipt on March 11, 2015, of the Federal Reserve s non-objection to the Firm s 2015 capital plan submitted under CCAR, the Firm s Board of Directors authorized the Firm to repurchase up to $6.4 billion of common equity (common stock and warrants) between April 1, 2015, and June 30, 2016. This authorization includes shares repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm s equity-based compensation plans. 74The following table sets forth the Firm s repurchases of common equity for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. The Firm repurchased common equity as permitted by its CCAR capital plans and prior Board authorization. Under the Federal Reserve's current capital plan and stress test rules, the Firm's cumulative net repurchases through the current quarter, cannot exceed the amount reflected in the Firm's 2015 capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve. There were no warrants repurchased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common equity   for example, during internal trading blackout periods. All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.The authorization to repurchase common equity will be utilized at management s discretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact amount of common equity that may be repurchased is subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal and regulatory considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm s capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative investment opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables; may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm s equity securities, see Part II, Item 5: Market for registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities on pages 18 19 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Form 10-K. Broker-dealer regulatory capitalJPMorgan Chase s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are J.P. Morgan Securities LLC ( JPMorgan Securities ) and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. ( JPMorgan Clearing ). JPMorgan Clearing is a subsidiary of JPMorgan Securities and provides clearing and settlement services. JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are each subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Net Capital Rule ). JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are also each registered as futures commission merchants and subject to Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ).JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing have elected to compute their minimum net capital requirements in accordance with the  Alternative Net Capital Requirements  of the Net Capital Rule. At September 30, 2015, JPMorgan Securities  net capital, as defined by the Net Capital Rule, was $13.2 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $10.7 billion, and JPMorgan Clearing s net capital was $7.5 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $5.8 billion.In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan Securities is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion and is also required to notify the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) in the event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion, in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of the Net Capital Rule. As of September 30, 2015, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements.J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and is the Firm s principal operating subsidiary in the U.K. It has authority to engage in banking, investment banking and broker-dealer activities. J.P. Morgan Securities plc is jointly regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority ( PRA ) and Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ). Commencing January 1, 2014, J.P. Morgan Securities plc became subject to the U.K. Basel III capital rules.At September 30, 2015, J.P. Morgan Securities plc had estimated total capital of $33.9 billion; its estimated CET1 capital ratio was 14.6% and its estimated Total capital ratio was 18.5%. Both capital ratios exceeded the minimum standards of 4.5% and 8.0%, respectively, under the transitional requirements of the European Union s ( EU ) Basel III Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation, as well as the additional capital requirements specified by the PRA.75LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENTLiquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet its contractual and contingent obligations. Liquidity risk management is intended to ensure that the Firm has the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of funding and liquidity in support of its assets. The following discussion of JPMorgan Chase s Liquidity Risk Management should be read in conjunction with pages 156 160 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.LCR and NSFRIn December 2010, the Basel Committee introduced two new measures of liquidity risk: the liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR ), which is intended to measure the amount of  high-quality liquid assets  ( HQLA ) held by the Firm in relation to estimated net cash outflows within a 30-day period during an acute stress event; and the net stable funding ratio ( NSFR ) which is intended to measure the  available  amount of stable funding relative to the  required  amount of stable funding over a one-year horizon. The standards require that the LCR be no lower than 100% and the NSFR be greater than 100%.On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators approved the final LCR rule ( U.S. LCR ), which became effective on January 1, 2015. Under the final rules, the LCR is required to be 80% at January 1, 2015, increasing by 10% each year until reaching 100% at January 1, 2017. At September 30, 2015, the Firm was compliant with the fully phased-in U.S. LCR. The Firm s LCR may fluctuate from period-to-period due to normal flows from client activity.On October 31, 2014, the Basel Committee issued the final standard for the NSFR which will become a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The U.S. banking regulators are expected to issue an NPR that would outline requirements specific to U.S. banks.HQLAHQLA is the amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in the U.S. LCR. HQLA primarily consists of cash and certain unencumbered high quality liquid assets as defined in the final rule.As of September 30, 2015, the Firm s HQLA was $505 billion, compared with $600 billion as of December 31, 2014. The decrease in HQLA was due to lower cash balances largely driven by lower non-operating deposit balances; however, the Firm remains LCR compliant given the corresponding reduction in estimated net cash outflows associated with those deposits. HQLA may fluctuate from period-to-period primarily due to normal flows from client activity. The following table presents HQLA included in the U.S. LCR, broken out by HQLA-eligible cash and HQLA-eligible securities as of September 30, 2015.(a)Predominantly cash on deposit at central banks.(b)Predominantly includes U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasuries, and sovereign bonds net of applicable haircuts under U.S. LCR rules.In addition to HQLA, as of September 30, 2015, the Firm has approximately $243 billion of unencumbered marketable securities, such as equity securities and fixed income debt securities, available to raise liquidity, if required. Furthermore, the Firm maintains borrowing capacity at various Federal Home Loan Banks ( FHLBs ), the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and various other central banks as a result of collateral pledged by the Firm to such banks. Although available, the Firm does not view the borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and the various other central banks as a primary source of liquidity. As of September 30, 2015, the Firm s remaining borrowing capacity at various FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Bank discount window was approximately $174 billion. This remaining borrowing capacity excludes the benefit of securities included above in HQLA or other unencumbered securities currently held at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window for which the Firm has not drawn liquidity.FundingSources of fundsManagement believes that the Firm s unsecured and secured funding capacity is sufficient to meet its on- and off-balance sheet obligations.The Firm funds its global balance sheet through diverse sources of funding including a stable deposit franchise as well as secured and unsecured funding in the capital markets. The Firm s loan portfolio (aggregating approximately $809.5 billion at September 30, 2015), is funded with a portion of the Firm s deposits (aggregating approximately $1,273.1 billion at September 30, 2015), and through securitizations and, with respect to a portion of the Firm s real estate-related loans, with secured borrowings from the FHLBs. Deposits in excess of the amount utilized to fund loans are primarily invested in the Firm s investment securities portfolio or deployed in cash or other short-term liquid investments based on their interest rate and liquidity risk characteristics. Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and trading assets- debt and equity instruments are primarily funded by the Firm s securities loaned or sold under agreements to 76repurchase, trading liabilities debt and equity instruments and a portion of the Firm s long-term debt and stockholders  equity. In addition to funding securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and trading assets-debt and equity instruments, proceeds from the Firm s debt and equity issuances are used to fund certain loans and other financial and non-financial assets, or may be invested in the Firm s investment securities portfolio. See the discussion below for additional information relating to Deposits, Short-term funding, and Long-term funding and issuance. DepositsA key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit franchise, through each of its lines of business, which provides a stable source of funding and limits reliance on the wholesale funding markets. As of September 30, 2015, the Firm s loans-to-deposits ratio was 64%, compared with 56% at December 31, 2014.As of September 30, 2015, total deposits for the Firm were $1,273.1 billion, compared with $1,363.4 billion at December 31, 2014 (59% and 58% of total liabilities at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively). The decrease was attributable to lower wholesale non-operating deposits, partially offset by higher consumer deposits. For further information, see Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 10 11.The Firm has typically experienced higher customer deposit inflows at period-ends. Therefore, the Firm believes average deposit balances are more representative of deposit trends. The table below summarizes, by line of business, deposit balances as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, as well as average deposits for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.A significant portion of the Firm s deposits are consumer deposits (42% and 37% at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively), which are considered a stable source of liquidity. Additionally, the majority of the Firm s wholesale operating deposits are also considered to be stable sources of liquidity because they are generated from customers that maintain operating service relationships with the Firm. Wholesale non-operating deposits, including a portion of balances previously reported as commercial paper sweep liabilities, have decreased by over $150 billion from December 31, 2014 to September 30, 2015, predominantly driven by the Firm s actions to reduce such deposits, consistent with its commitment to do so, as announced in February 2015. The reduction has not had a significant impact on the Firm s liquidity position. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance trends, see the discussion of the results for the Firm s business segments and the Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 17 45 and pages 10 11, respectively.77The following table summarizes short-term and long-term funding, excluding deposits, as September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and average balances for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For additional information, see the Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 10 11 and Note 12.(a)Included in beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets.(b)Excludes federal funds purchased.(c)Excluded long-term structured repurchase agreements of $4.0 billion and $2.7 billion as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, and average balance of $3.9 billion and $2.6 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $3.5 billion and $3.8 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(d)Excluded average long-term securities loaned of $32 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. There was no balance for the other periods presented. (e)Other securitizations includes securitizations of residential mortgages and student loans. The Firm s wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan securitizations are not considered to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table.(f)Includes long-term structured notes which are secured.(g)For additional information on preferred stock and common stockholders  equity see Capital Management on pages 69 75 and the Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders  equity on page 89; and Note 22 and Note 23 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Short-term fundingDuring the third quarter 2015 the Firm completed the discontinuation of its commercial paper customer sweep cash management program. This change has not had a significant impact on the Firm s liquidity as the majority of these customer funds remain as deposits at the Firm. The Firm s sources of short-term secured funding primarily consist of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are secured predominantly by high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued debt and agency MBS, and constitute a significant portion of the federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements on the Consolidated balance sheets. The decrease in securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase at September 30, 2015, compared with the balance at December 31, 2014 (as well as the average balances for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared with the prior year periods) was predominantly attributable to a decline in secured financing of trading assets-debt and equity instruments. The balances 78associated with securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase fluctuate over time due to customers  investment and financing activities; the Firm s demand for financing; the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm s liabilities, including its secured and unsecured financing (for both the investment securities and market-making portfolios); and other market and portfolio factors.Long-term funding and issuanceLong-term funding provides additional sources of stable funding and liquidity for the Firm. The Firm s long-term funding plan is driven by expected client activity, liquidity considerations, and regulatory requirements. Long-term funding objectives include maintaining diversification, maximizing market access and optimizing funding costs, as well as maintaining a certain level of pre-funding at the parent holding company. The Firm evaluates various funding markets, tenors and currencies in creating its optimal long-term funding plan.The significant majority of the Firm s long-term unsecured funding is issued by the parent holding company to provide maximum flexibility in support of both bank and nonbank subsidiary funding. The following table summarizes long-term unsecured issuance and maturities or redemptions for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. For additional information, see Note 21 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. In addition, from October 1, 2015, through November 2, 2015, the Firm issued $4.7 billion of senior notes.The Firm raises secured long-term funding through securitization of consumer credit card loans and advances from the FHLBs. It may also in the future raise long-term funding through securitization of residential mortgages and auto loans, which would increase funding and investor diversity.The following table summarizes the securitization issuance and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or redemptions for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(a)Other securitizations includes securitizations of residential mortgages and student loans.The Firm s wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan securitizations are not considered to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table above. For further description of the client-driven loan securitizations, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. Credit ratingsThe cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings. Reductions in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm s access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. 79Additionally, the Firm s funding requirements for VIEs and other third party commitments may be adversely affected by a decline in credit ratings. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding  requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on page 12, and Credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features in Note 5.The credit ratings of the parent holding company and the Firm s principal bank and nonbank subsidiaries as of September 30, 2015, were as follows. JPMorgan Chase & Co. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.Chase Bank USA, N.A. J.P. Morgan Securities LLCSeptember 30, 2015Long-term issuerShort-term issuerOutlook Long-term issuerShort-term issuerOutlook Long-term issuerShort-term issuerOutlookMoody sA3P-2Stable Aa3P-1Stable Aa3P-1StableStandard & Poor sAA-1Negative A+A-1Stable A+A-1StableFitch RatingsA+F1Stable AA-F1+Stable AA-F1+StableDowngrades of the Firm s long-term ratings by one or two notches could result in a downgrade of the Firm s short-term ratings. If this were to occur, the Firm believes its cost of funds could increase and access to certain funding markets could be reduced as noted above. The nature and magnitude of the impact of ratings downgrades depends on numerous contractual and behavioral factors (which the Firm believes are incorporated in its liquidity risk and stress testing metrics). The Firm believes that it maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a potential decrease in funding capacity due to ratings downgrades.JPMorgan Chase s unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the Firm s credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or stock price.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic  and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, rating uplift assumptions surrounding government support, future profitability, risk management practices, and litigation matters, as well as their broader ratings methodologies. Changes in any of these factors could lead to changes in the Firm s credit ratings.In May 2015, Moody s published its new bank rating methodology. As part of this action, the Firm s preferred stock, deposits and bank subordinated debt ratings were upgraded by one notch. Additionally in May 2015, Fitch changed its bank ratings methodology, implementing ratings differentiation between bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries. This resulted in a one notch upgrade to the issuer ratings, senior debt ratings and long-term deposit ratings of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and certain other subsidiaries. In addition, S&P is considering a proposed change to its rating criteria related to additional loss absorbing capacity.Although the Firm closely monitors and endeavors to manage, to the extent it is able, factors influencing its credit ratings, there is no assurance that its credit ratings will not be changed in the future.SUPERVISION AND REGULATIONFor further information on Supervision and Regulation, see the Supervision and regulation section on pages 1 7 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Form 10-K.For more information about the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital and leverage in the U.S. under Basel III, see Regulatory capital on pages 69 73 and Note 20.Under Basel III, bank holding companies and banks are required to measure their liquidity against two specific liquidity tests: the LCR and the NSFR. For additional information on these ratios, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 76 80.For additional information on the Firm s CCAR, see Regulatory capital on pages 69 73. For further information on the potential impact of the G-SIB framework and TLAC, see Regulatory capital on pages 69 73.For information on the net capital of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp., and the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital for J.P. Morgan Securities plc, see Regulatory capital on pages 69 73.DividendsAt September 30, 2015, JPMorgan Chase estimated that its banking subsidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, approximately $40 billion in dividends to their respective bank holding companies without the prior approval of their relevant banking regulators.80CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRMJPMorgan Chase s accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm s most complex accounting estimates require management s judgment to ascertain the appropriate carrying value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established policies and control procedures intended to ensure that estimation methods, including any judgments made as part of such methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from period to period. The methods used and judgments made reflect, among other factors, the nature of the assets or liabilities and the related business and risk management strategies, which may vary across the Firm s businesses and portfolios. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm s critical accounting estimates involving significant judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase s allowance for credit losses covers the retained consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm s wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments. The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the carrying value of the Firm s loan assets to reflect probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Similarly, the allowance for lending-related commitments is established to cover probable credit losses inherent in the lending-related commitments portfolio as of the balance sheet date. For further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing the Firm s allowance for credit losses, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 128 130 and Note 15 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report; for amounts recorded as of September 30, 2015 and 2014, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 60 62 and Note 14 of this Form 10-Q.As noted in the discussion on pages 161 163 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report, the Firm s allowance for credit losses is sensitive to numerous factors, which may differ depending on the portfolio. Changes in economic conditions or in the Firm s assumptions and estimates could affect its estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. The Firm uses its best judgment to assess these economic conditions and loss data in estimating the allowance for loan losses and these estimates are subject to periodic refinement based on any changes to underlying external and Firm-specific historical data. In many cases, the use of alternate estimates (for example, the effect of home prices and unemployment rates on consumer delinquency, or the calibration between the Firm s wholesale loan risk ratings and external credit ratings) or data sources (for example, external probability of default ( PD ) and loss given default ( LGD ) factors that incorporate industry-wide information, versus Firm-specific  history) would result in a different estimated allowance for loan loss. To illustrate the potential magnitude of certain alternate judgments, the Firm estimates that changes in the following inputs would have the following effects on the Firm s modeled loss estimates as of September 30, 2015, without consideration of any offsetting or correlated effects of other inputs in the Firm s allowance for loan losses: For PCI loans, a combined 5% decline in housing prices and a 1% increase in unemployment from current levels could imply an increase to modeled credit loss estimates of approximately $800 million. For the residential real estate portfolio, excluding PCI loans, a combined 5% decline in housing prices and a 1% increase in unemployment from current levels could imply an increase to modeled annual loss estimates of approximately $175 million. A 50 basis point deterioration in forecasted credit card loss rates could imply an increase to modeled annualized credit card loan loss estimates of approximately $600 million. An increase in PD factors consistent with a one-notch downgrade in the Firm s internal risk ratings for its entire wholesale loan portfolio could imply an increase in the Firm s modeled loss estimates of approximately $2.0 billion. A 100 basis point increase in estimated LGD for the Firm s entire wholesale loan portfolio could imply an increase in the Firm s modeled loss estimates of approximately $150 million.The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an indication of the isolated impacts of hypothetical alternative assumptions on modeled loss estimates. The changes in the inputs presented above are not intended to imply management s expectation of future deterioration of those risk factors. In addition, these analyses are not intended to estimate changes in the overall allowance for loan losses, which would also be influenced by the judgment management applies to the modeled loss estimates to reflect the uncertainty and imprecision of these modeled loss estimates based on then current circumstances and conditions.It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific factors might affect the overall allowance for credit losses because management considers a variety of factors and inputs in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Changes in these factors and inputs may not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across all geographies or product types, and changes in factors may be directionally inconsistent, such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in other factors. In addition, it is difficult to predict how changes in specific economic conditions or assumptions could affect borrower behavior or other factors considered by management in estimating 81the allowance for credit losses. Given the process the Firm follows and the judgments made in evaluating the risk factors related to its loans and credit card loss estimates, management believes that its current estimate of the allowance for credit loss is appropriate.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventory Assets measured at fair valueThe following table includes the Firm s assets measured at fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For further information, see Note 3.September 30, 2015(in billions, except ratio data)Total assets at fair value Total level 3 assetsTrading debt and equity instruments$292.9  $13.1Derivative receivables68.7  8.9Trading assets361.6  22.0AFS securities256.5  0.8Loans3.1  2.9MSRs6.7  6.7Private equity investments(a)1.9  1.7Other32.4  0.8Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis662.2  34.9Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis2.3  0.9Total assets measured at fair value $664.5  $35.8Total Firm assets$2,417.1   Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets   1.5%Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets at fair value   5.4%Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for certain investments where the Firm measures fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and excluded them from the fair value hierarchy. Accordingly, such investments are not included within this table. For further information, see Note 3.(a)Private equity instruments represent investments within Corporate.ValuationEstimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of observable market information available to the Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed models that use significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, the lack of observability of certain significant inputs requires management to assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs   including, for example, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and  credit curves. For further discussion of the valuation of level 3 instruments, including unobservable inputs used, see Note 3.For instruments classified in levels 2 and 3, management judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm s credit-worthiness, market funding rates, liquidity considerations, unobservable parameters, and for portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk position. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole. For further discussion of valuation adjustments applied by the Firm, see Note 3.Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the methods and assumptions used reflect management judgment and may vary across the Firm s businesses and portfolios.The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the determination of fair value. The use of methodologies or assumptions different than those used by the Firm could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion of the Firm s valuation process and hierarchy, and its determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3.Goodwill impairmentManagement applies significant judgment when testing goodwill for impairment. For a description of the significant valuation judgments associated with goodwill impairment, see Goodwill impairment on page 164 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The goodwill of $101 million remaining as of December 31, 2014 associated with the Private Equity business was disposed of as part of the Private Equity sale completed in January 2015. For further information on the Private Equity sale, see Note 2.During the three months ended September 30, 2015, the Firm updated the discounted cash flow valuation of its Mortgage Banking business. As of September 30, 2015, the estimated fair value of the Firm s Mortgage Banking business exceeds its carrying value by less than 5%, and accordingly, the associated goodwill of approximately $2 billion was determined to not be impaired as of September 30, 2015, although it remains at an elevated risk for goodwill impairment.For its other businesses, the Firm reviewed current conditions (including the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes and current estimated market cost of equity) and prior projections of business performance.Based on the updated valuation of its Mortgage Banking business and reviews of its other businesses, the Firm concluded that the goodwill allocated to its reporting units was not impaired at September 30, 2015.82Deterioration in economic or market conditions, increased estimates of the effects of recent regulatory or legislative changes, or additional regulatory or legislative changes may result in declines in projected business performance beyond management s current expectations. For example, in the Firm s Mortgage Banking business, such declines could result from increases in primary mortgage interest rates, lower mortgage origination volume, or from deterioration in economic conditions, including decreases in home prices, that result in increased credit losses. Declines in business performance, increases in equity capital requirements, or increases in the estimated cost of equity could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm s reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.For additional information on goodwill, see Note 16.Income taxesFor a description of the significant assumptions, judgments and interpretations associated with the accounting for income taxes, see Income taxes on pages 164 165 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Litigation reservesFor a description of the significant estimates and judgments associated with establishing litigation reserves, see Note 23 of this Form 10-Q, and Note 31 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.83ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTSDisclosures for investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value per share (or its equivalent) In May 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued guidance to address diversity in practice related to how certain investments measured at net asset value ( NAV ) are reported within the financial statement footnotes. The new guidance removes the requirement to categorize investments measured under the current NAV practical expedient within the fair value hierarchy for all investments. The amendments also remove the requirement to make certain disclosures for all investments that are eligible to be measured at fair value using the NAV practical expedient. Rather, those disclosures are limited to investments for which the entity has elected to measure the fair value using that practical expedient. The Firm adopted the new guidance effective April 1, 2015. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively, and accordingly, certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. The application of this guidance only affected the disclosures related to these investments and had no impact on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets or results of operations. For further information, see Note 3.Simplifying presentation of debt issuance costs In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs. The new guidance requires that unamortized debt issuance costs be presented as a reduction of the debt liability rather than as an asset. The guidance does not impact the amortization method for these costs. The guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2016 with early adoption permitted. Adoption of the new guidance will have no impact on the Firm s net income but is expected to reduce other assets and long-term debt by an immaterial amount. Amendments to the consolidation analysis In February 2015, the FASB issued guidance regarding consolidation of legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures. The guidance eliminates the deferral issued by the FASB in February 2010 of the accounting guidance for VIEs for certain investment funds, including mutual funds, private equity funds and hedge funds. In addition, the guidance amends the evaluation of fees paid to a decision maker or a service provider, and exempts certain money market funds from consolidation. The guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2016. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Firm s Consolidated Financial Statements.Measuring the financial assets and financial liabilities of a consolidated collateralized financing entity In August 2014, the FASB issued guidance to address diversity in the accounting for differences in the measurement of the fair values of financial assets and liabilities of consolidated financing VIEs. The new guidance provides an alternative for consolidated financing VIEs to elect: (1) to measure their financial assets and liabilities separately under existing U.S. GAAP for fair value measurement with any differences in such fair values reflected in earnings; or (2) to measure both their financial assets and liabilities using the more observable of the fair value of the financial assets or the fair value of the financial liabilities. The guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2016, with early adoption permitted. The adoption  of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Firm s Consolidated Financial Statements. Repurchase agreements and similar transactions In June 2014, the FASB issued guidance that amends the accounting for certain secured financing transactions, and requires enhanced disclosures with respect to transactions recognized as sales in which exposure to the derecognized asset is retained through a separate agreement with the counterparty. The Firm adopted the new accounting guidance effective January 1, 2015. The application of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Firm s Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information, see Note 5.In addition, the guidance requires enhanced disclosures with respect to the types of financial assets pledged in secured financing transactions and the remaining contractual maturity of the secured financing transactions. The Firm adopted the new disclosure guidance effective April 1, 2015. For further information, see Note 12.Revenue recognition   revenue from contracts with customers In May 2014, the FASB issued revenue recognition guidance that is intended to create greater consistency with respect to how and when revenue from contracts with customers is shown in the statements of income. The guidance requires that revenue from contracts with customers be recognized upon delivery of a good or service based on the amount of consideration expected to be received, and requires additional disclosures about revenue. The guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2018 with early adoption permitted as early as the first quarter of 2017. The Firm is currently evaluating the potential impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Reporting discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of components of an entity In April 2014, the FASB issued guidance regarding the reporting of discontinued operations. The guidance changes the criteria for determining whether a disposition qualifies for discontinued operations presentation. It also requires enhanced disclosures about discontinued operations and significant dispositions that do not qualify to be presented as discontinued operations. The Firm adopted the new guidance effective January 1, 2015. The application of this guidance had no material impact on the Firm s Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments in qualified affordable housing projects In January 2014, the FASB issued guidance regarding the accounting for investments in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit. The guidance replaces the effective yield method and allows companies to make an accounting policy election to amortize the initial cost of its investments in proportion to the tax credits and other benefits received if certain criteria are met, and to present the amortization as a component of income tax expense. The Firm adopted the new accounting guidance effective January 1, 2015. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively and accordingly, certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. For additional information about the impact of the adoption of the new accounting guidance on January 1, 2015, see Note 1. 84FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSFrom time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as  anticipate,   target,   expect,   estimate,   intend,   plan,   goal,   believe,  or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan Chase s current expectations or forecasts of future events, circumstances, results or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase s disclosures in this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Firm s senior management may make forward-looking statements orally to investors, analysts, representatives of the media and others.All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Firm s control. JPMorgan Chase s actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in its forward-looking statements. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements: Local, regional and international business, economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; Changes in laws and regulatory requirements, including capital requirements; Changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; Securities and capital markets behavior, including changes in market liquidity and volatility; Changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or savings behavior; Ability of the Firm to manage effectively its capital and liquidity, including approval of its capital plans by banking regulators; Changes in credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its subsidiaries; Damage to the Firm s reputation; Ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic slowdown or other economic or market disruption; Technology changes instituted by the Firm, its counterparties or competitors; The success of the Firm s business simplification initiatives and the effectiveness of its control agenda; Ability of the Firm to develop new products and services, and the extent to which products or services previously  sold by the Firm (including but not limited to mortgages and asset-backed securities) require the Firm to incur liabilities or absorb losses not contemplated at their initiation or origination; Ability of the Firm to address enhanced regulatory requirements affecting its businesses; Acceptance of the Firm s new and existing products and services by the marketplace and the ability of the Firm to increase market share; Ability of the Firm to attract and retain qualified employees; Ability of the Firm to control expense; Competitive pressures; Changes in the credit quality of the Firm s customers and counterparties; Adequacy of the Firm s risk management framework, disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting; Adverse judicial or regulatory proceedings; Changes in applicable accounting policies; Ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of certain assets and liabilities; Occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or calamities or conflicts and the Firm s ability to deal effectively with disruptions caused by the foregoing; Ability of the Firm to maintain the security and integrity  of its financial, accounting, technology, data processing and other operating systems and facilities; Ability of the Firm to effectively defend itself against cyberattacks and other attempts by unauthorized parties to access the Firm s information or disrupt its systems; and The other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors in the Firm s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made. The reader should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports on Form 8-K.85JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of income (unaudited)(a)The Firm recognized other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) losses of $12 million and $2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $14 million and $2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.      86JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of comprehensive income (unaudited)The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.87JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated balance sheets (unaudited)(a)The following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs that are consolidated by the Firm at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The difference between total VIE assets and liabilities represents the Firm s interests in those entities, which were eliminated in consolidation.The assets of the consolidated VIEs are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The holders of the beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. At both September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm provided limited program-wide credit enhancement of $2.0 billion related to its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, which are eliminated in consolidation. For further discussion, see Note 15.The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.88JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders  equity (unaudited)The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.89JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of cash flows (unaudited)The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.90See Glossary of Terms for definitions of terms used throughout the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)Note 1   Basis of presentationJPMorgan Chase & Co. ( JPMorgan Chase  or the  Firm ), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America ( U.S. ), with operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. For a discussion of the Firm s business segments, see Note 24.The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ( U.S. GAAP ). Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by regulatory authorities. The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expense, and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be different from these estimates. In the opinion of management, all normal, recurring adjustments have been included for a fair statement of this interim financial information. These unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements, and related notes thereto, included in JPMorgan Chase s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the  2014 Annual Report ).Certain amounts reported in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation. Investments in qualified affordable housing projects Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for investments in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit, which impacted the Corporate & Investment Bank ( CIB ). As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, the Firm made an accounting policy election to amortize the initial cost of its qualifying investments in proportion to the tax credits and other benefits received, and to present the amortization as a component of income tax expense; previously such amounts were predominantly presented in other income. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively and accordingly, certain prior period  amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. The cumulative effect on retained earnings was a reduction of $321 million as of January 1, 2014. The adoption of this accounting guidance resulted in an increase of $223 million and $230 million in other income and income tax expense, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2014, and $669 million and $686 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, which led to an increase of approximately 2% in the effective tax rate for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. The impact on net income and earnings per share in the periods affected was not material. The Firm recognized $398 million and $394 million of tax credits and other tax benefits associated with these investments within Income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $1.2 billion for both the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.  The amount of amortization of such investments reported in income tax expense under the current period presentation was $274 million and $268 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $829 million and $799 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The carrying value of investments in affordable housing projects was $7.3 billion at both September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. These investments are reported in other assets on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets. The amount of commitments related to these investments was $1.9 billion and $1.8 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. These commitments are reported in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets. Offsetting assets and liabilitiesU.S. GAAP permits entities to present derivative receivables and derivative payables with the same counterparty and the related cash collateral receivables and payables on a net basis on the balance sheet when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. U.S. GAAP also permits securities sold and purchased under repurchase agreements to be presented net when specified conditions are met, including the existence of a legally enforceable master netting agreement. The Firm has elected to net such balances when the specified conditions are met. For further information on offsetting assets and liabilities, see Note 1 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.91Note 2   Business changes and developments Private Equity saleAs part of the Firm s business simplification, the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business ( Private Equity sale ) was completed on January 9, 2015.Income tax expenseThe Firm s effective tax rate was (1.1)% and 18.5% in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively, and 29.7% and 30.5% in the respective 2014 periods. The effective tax rate in the 2015 periods includes the recognition of tax benefits of $2.2 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, which reduced the Firm s effective tax rate by 32.0% and 11.7%, respectively. The recognition of tax benefits in 2015 resulted from the resolution of various tax audits by a number of taxing authorities, most notably the Internal Revenue Service, New York State, and the State of California (which reduced the Firm s gross unrecognized tax benefits), as well as the release of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities. Based upon the resolution of such audits, the gross balance of the Firm s unrecognized tax benefits has decreased by approximately $2 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. For further information, see Note 26 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Trust preferred securities redemption On April 2, 2015 the Firm redeemed $1.5 billion of trust preferred capital securities. For further information on the Firm s trust preferred securities, see Note 21 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Preferred stock issuancesDuring the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Firm issued $1.2 billion and $6.0 billion respectively, of noncumulative preferred stock. For further information on the Firm s preferred stock, see Note 22 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Increase in common stock dividend The Board of Directors increased the Firm s quarterlycommon stock dividend from $0.40 per share to $0.44 pershare, effective with the dividend paid on July 31, 2015, to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 6, 2015. Note 3   Fair value measurementFor a discussion of the Firm s valuation methodologies for assets, liabilities and lending-related commitments measured at fair value and the fair value hierarchy, see Note 3 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.92The following table presents the asset and liabilities reported at fair value as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, by major product category and fair value hierarchy.93Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value per share (or its equivalent). As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient are not required to be classified in the fair value hierarchy. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the fair values of these investments, which include certain hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate and other funds, were $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, of which $337 million and $1.2 billion had been previously classified in level 2 and level 3, respectively, at December 31, 2014. Included in the balances at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, were trading assets of $81 million and $124 million, respectively, and other assets of $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively, and accordingly, prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.94(a)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations of $67.5 billion and $84.1 billion, respectively, which were predominantly mortgage-related.(b)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included within trading loans were $13.1 billion and $17.0 billion, respectively, of residential first-lien mortgages, and $5.2 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively, of commercial first-lien mortgages. Residential mortgage loans include conforming mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell to U.S. government agencies of $6.0 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively, and reverse mortgages of $2.7 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.(c)Physical commodities inventories are generally accounted for at the lower of cost or market.  Market  is a term defined in U.S. GAAP as not exceeding fair value less costs to sell ( transaction costs ). Transaction costs for the Firm s physical commodities inventories are either not applicable or immaterial to the value of the inventory. Therefore, market approximates fair value for the Firm s physical commodities inventories. When fair value hedging has been applied (or when market is below cost), the carrying value of physical commodities approximates fair value, because under fair value hedge accounting, the cost basis is adjusted for changes in fair value. For a further discussion of the Firm s hedge accounting relationships, see Note 5. To provide consistent fair value disclosure information, all physical commodities inventories have been included in each period presented.(d)Balances reflect the reduction of securities owned (long positions) by the amount of identical securities sold but not yet purchased (short positions). (e)As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral received and paid when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. For purposes of the tables above, the Firm does not reduce derivative receivables and derivative payables balances for this netting adjustment, either within or across the levels of the fair value hierarchy, as such netting is not relevant to a presentation based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability. However, if the Firm were to net such balances within level 3, the reduction in the level 3 derivative receivables and payables balances would be $1.8 billion and $2.5 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively; this is exclusive of the netting benefit associated with cash collateral, which would further reduce the level 3 balances.(f)Private equity instruments represent investments within the Corporate line of business. The cost basis of the private equity investment portfolio totaled $3.6 billion and $6.0 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.(g)Certain prior period amounts (including the corresponding fair value parenthetical disclosure for accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets)  were revised to conform with the current period presentation.Transfers between levels for instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and the three months ended September 30, 2014, there were no individually significant transfers between levels 1 and 2, or from level 2 into level 3.During the three months ended September 30, 2015, transfers from level 3 into level 2 included $2.4 billion of long-term debt driven by an increase in observability on certain structured notes with embedded interest rate and FX derivatives and a reduction of the significance in the unobservable inputs for certain structured notes with embedded equity derivatives; further, $1.1 billion of interest rate derivative receivables was transferred from level 3 to level 2 as a result of an increase in observability.In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 transfers from level 3 into level 2 included $2.3 billion of trading loans driven by an increase in observability of certain collateralized financing transactions; $2.2 billion of corporate debt driven by a reduction of the significance in the unobservable inputs and an increase in observability for certain structured products.During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, transfers from level 3 into level 2 included $3.4 billion and $3.1 billion of equity derivative receivables and payables, respectively, due to increased observability of certain equity option valuation inputs; and $1.1 billion of corporate debt, $1.1 billion of long-term debt and $1.0 billion of trading loans based on increased liquidity and price transparency. Transfers from level 2 into level 3 included $1.1 billion of other borrowed funds based on a decrease in observability of valuation inputs and price transparency.All transfers are assumed to occur at the beginning of the quarterly reporting period in which they occur. Level 3 valuationsFor further information on the Firm s valuation process and a detailed discussion of the determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The following table presents the Firm s primary level 3 financial instruments, the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of those financial instruments, the significant unobservable inputs, the range of values for those inputs and, for certain instruments, the weighted averages of such inputs. While the determination to classify an instrument within level 3 is based on the significance of the  unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement, level 3 financial instruments typically include observable components (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources) in addition to the unobservable components. The level 1 and/or level 2 inputs are not included in the table. In addition, the Firm manages the risk of the observable components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified within levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The range of values presented in the table is representative of the highest and lowest level input used to value the significant groups of instruments within a product/instrument classification. Where provided, the weighted averages of the input values presented in the table are calculated based on the fair value of the instruments that the input is being used to value. In the Firm s view, the input range and the weighted average value do not reflect the degree of input uncertainty or an assessment of the reasonableness of the Firm s estimates and assumptions. Rather, they reflect the characteristics of the various instruments held by the Firm and the relative distribution of instruments within the range of characteristics. For example, two option contracts may have similar levels of market risk exposure and valuation uncertainty, but may have significantly different implied volatility levels because the option contracts have different underlyings, tenors, or strike prices. The input range and weighted average values will therefore vary from period to period and parameter-to-parameter based on the characteristics of the instruments held by the Firm at each balance sheet date. For the Firm s derivatives and structured notes positions classified within level 3 at September 30, 2015, interest rate correlation inputs used in estimating fair value were concentrated towards the upper end of the range presented, equities correlation inputs were concentrated at the low end of the range, while the credit correlation inputs were distributed across the range presented and the foreign exchange correlation inputs were concentrated at the top end of the range presented. In addition, the interest rate volatility inputs used in estimating fair value were concentrated at the upper end of the range presented. The equity volatilities are concentrated at the lower half end of the range. The forward commodity prices used in estimating the fair value of commodity derivatives were concentrated within the lower end of the range presented. 95Level 3 inputs(a) September 30, 2015 (in millions, except for ratios and basis points)     Product/InstrumentFair value Principal valuation techniqueUnobservable inputsRange of input valuesWeighted averageResidential mortgage-backed securities and loans$5,653 Discounted cash flowsYield4 % 26%6%   Prepayment speed0 % 20%7%    Conditional default rate0 % 11%2%    Loss severity0 % 100%37%Commercial mortgage-backed securities and loans(b)3,970 Discounted cash flowsYield0 % 25%3%   Conditional default rate0 % 91%21%    Loss severity0 % 40%29%Corporate debt securities, obligations of U.S. states and municipalities, and other(c)3,556 Discounted cash flowsCredit spread60 bps 270 bps254bps   Yield1 % 22%5%3,513 Market comparablesPrice$  $139$94Net interest rate derivatives831 Option pricingInterest rate correlation(49)% 99%     Interest rate spread volatility4 % 30% Net credit derivatives(b)(c)512 Discounted cash flowsCredit correlation35 % 90% Net foreign exchange derivatives(535) Option pricingForeign exchange correlation0 % 60% Net equity derivatives(1,524) Option pricingEquity volatility20 % 65% Net commodity derivatives(1,220) Discounted cash flowsForward commodity price$33 $54 per barrelCollateralized loan obligations755 Discounted cash flowsCredit spread350 bps 525 bps390 bps    Prepayment speed20%20%    Conditional default rate2%2%    Loss severity40%40% 160 Market comparablesPrice$  $100$76Mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs )6,716 Discounted cash flowsRefer to Note 16 Private equity investments1,700 Market comparablesEBITDA multiple6.4x 9.9x8.7x   Liquidity adjustment0 % 15%6%Long-term debt, other borrowed funds, and deposits(d)14,495 Option pricingInterest rate correlation(49)% 99%    Interest rate spread volatility4 % 30%    Foreign exchange correlation0 % 60%    Equity correlation(50)% 80%  506 Discounted cash flowsCredit correlation35 % 90% Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs(e)1,018 Discounted Cash FlowsYield4 % 28%4%    Prepayment Speed1 % 12%8%    Conditional default rate2 % 15%2%    Loss severity40 % 100%48%(a)The categories presented in the table have been aggregated based upon the product type, which may differ from their classification on the Consolidated balance sheets.(b)The unobservable inputs and associated input ranges for approximately $394 million of credit derivative receivables and $355 million of credit derivative payables with underlying commercial mortgage risk have been included in the inputs and ranges provided for commercial mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ) and loans.(c)The unobservable inputs and associated input ranges for approximately $491 million of credit derivative receivables and $453 million of credit derivative payables with underlying asset-backed securities ( ABS ) risk have been included in the inputs and ranges provided for corporate debt securities, obligations of U.S. states and municipalities and other.(d)Long-term debt, other borrowed funds and deposits include structured notes issued by the Firm that are predominantly financial instruments containing embedded derivatives. The estimation of the fair value of structured notes is predominantly based on the derivative features embedded within the instruments. The significant unobservable inputs are broadly consistent with those presented for derivative receivables.(e)The parameters are related to residential mortgage-backed securities.Changes in and ranges of unobservable inputsFor a discussion of the impact on fair value of changes in unobservable inputs and the relationships between unobservable inputs as well as a description of attributes of the underlying instruments and external market factors that affect the range of inputs used in the valuation of the Firm s positions see Note 3 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurementsThe following tables include a rollforward of the Consolidated balance sheets amounts (including changes in fair value) for financial instruments classified by the Firm within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. When a determination is made to classify a financial instrument within level 3, the determination is based on the  significance of the unobservable parameters to the overall fair value measurement. However, level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable or level 3 components, observable components (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part to observable factors that are part of the valuation methodology. Also, the Firm risk-manages the observable components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified within level 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy; as these level 1 and level 2 risk management instruments are not included below, the gains or losses in the following tables do not reflect the effect of the Firm s risk management activities related to such level 3 instruments. 96979899Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for certain investments where the Firm measures fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and excluded them from the fair value hierarchy. Accordingly, such investments are not included within these tables. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively, and accordingly, prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. For further information, see page 94.100(a)All level 3 derivatives are presented on a net basis, irrespective of the underlying counterparty.(b)Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total Firm liabilities accounted for at fair value (including liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) was 13% at September 30, 2015 and 15% at December 31, 2014.(c)Predominantly reported in principal transactions revenue, except for changes in fair value for Consumer & Community Banking mortgage loans, lending-related commitments originated with the intent to sell, and mortgage loan purchase commitments, which are reported in mortgage fees and related income.(d)Realized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities, as well as other-than-temporary impairment losses that are recorded in earnings, are reported in securities gains. Unrealized gains/(losses) are reported in OCI. Realized gains/(losses) and foreign exchange hedge accounting adjustments recorded in income on AFS securities were zero and $(30) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 and $(7) million and $(43) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Unrealized gains/(losses) recorded on AFS securities in OCI were $(27) million and $(12) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 and $(27) million and $(13) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 respectively.(e)Changes in fair value for CCB mortgage servicing rights are reported in mortgage fees and related income.(f)Predominantly reported in other income.(g)Loan originations are included in purchases.(h)All transfers into and/or out of level 3 are assumed to occur at the beginning of the quarterly reporting period in which they occur.(i)The prior period amounts have been revised. The revision had no impact on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets or its results of operations.Level 3 analysisConsolidated balance sheets changesLevel 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 1.5% of total Firm assets at September 30, 2015. The following describes significant changes to level 3 assets since December 31, 2014, for those items measured at fair value on a recurring basis. For further information on changes impacting items measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, see Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis on page 102.Three months ended September 30, 2015Level 3 assets were $34.9 billion at September 30, 2015, reflecting a decrease of $5.8 billion from June 30, 2015, largely due to the following: $2.9 billion  decrease in trading assets, debt and equity Instruments driven by the decrease in trading loans primarily due to maturities and transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of an increase in observability of certain valuation inputs; additionally, a decrease in the obligations of U.S. states and municipalities securities predominantly driven by transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of an increase in observability of certain valuation inputs. $2.3 billion decrease in derivative receivables due to decreases in interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives driven by transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of an increase in transparency of certain valuation inputs and market movements.Nine months ended September 30, 2015 Level 3 assets decreased by $14.4 billion from December 31, 2014, largely due to the following: $9.4 billion  decrease in trading assets, debt and equity instruments predominantly driven by a decrease in trading loans due to sales, maturities and transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of increase in observability of certain valuation inputs, and a decrease in corporate debt securities due to transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of a reduction of the significance in the unobservable inputs.  $3.7 billion decrease in derivative receivables predominantly driven by a decrease in interest rate and equity derivatives due to transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of increase in observability of certain valuation inputs and market movements, and a decrease in credit derivatives due to maturities and settlements. Gains and lossesThe following describes significant components of total realized/unrealized gains/(losses) for instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the periods indicated. For further information on these instruments, see Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements rollforward tables on pages 97 101.Three months ended September 30, 2015 $1.1 billion of net loss on assets of which $765 million was on mortgage servicing rights. For more information, see Note 16. $807 million of net loss on liabilities none of which were individually significant.Three months ended September 30, 2014 $173 million of net losses and $533 million of gains on assets and liabilities, respectively, none of which were individually significant.Nine months ended September 30, 2015 $1.7 billion gain in derivative receivables due to gains in interest rate, foreign exchange and equity derivatives driven by market movements, partially offset by loss from sales of commodity derivatives. $1.2 billion loss in liabilities due to loss in other borrowed funds and long-term debt due to market movements, partially offset by gains from the sale of long term debt.Nine months ended September 30, 2014 $1.0 billion of losses on MSRs. For further discussion of the change, refer to Note 16.101Credit & funding adjustmentsThe following table provides the credit and funding adjustments, excluding the effect of any associated hedging activities, reflected within the Consolidated balance sheets as of the dates indicated.(a)Balances are presented net of applicable credit valuation adjustments ( CVA ) and debit valuation adjustments ( DVA )/funding valuation adjustments ( FVA ).(b)Positive CVA and DVA/FVA represent amounts that increased receivable balances or decreased payable balances; negative CVA and DVA/FVA represent amounts that decreased receivable balances or increased payable balances.(c)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included derivatives DVA of $822 million and $714 million, respectively.(d)Structured notes are predominantly financial instruments containing embedded derivatives that are measured at fair value based on the Firm s election under the fair value option. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included $1.7 billion and $943 million, respectively, of financial instruments with no embedded derivative for which the fair value option has also been elected. For further information on these elections, see Note 4. (e)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included structured notes DVA of $1.9 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.The following table provides the impact of credit and funding adjustments on principal transactions revenue in the respective periods, excluding the effect of any associated hedging activities. (a)Included derivatives DVA of $51 million and $68 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $108 million and $(27) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(b)Included structured notes DVA of $169 million and $190 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $492 million and $209 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis At September 30, 2015 and 2014, assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, which predominantly consisted of loans that had fair value adjustments in the first nine months of both 2015 and 2014. At September 30, 2015, $1.5 billion and $867 million of these loans were classified in levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. At September 30, 2014, $102 million and $2.5 billion of these loans were classified in levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. Liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were not significant at September 30, 2015 and 2014. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, $1.3 billion of level 3 nonrecurring assets related to consumer credit card loans were transferred to level 2 due to increased observability. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 there were no significant transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3. Of the $867 million of level 3 assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of September 30, 2015: $528 million related to residential real estate loans measured at the net realizable value of the underlying collateral (i.e., collateral-dependent loans and other loans charged off in accordance with regulatory guidance). These amounts are classified as level 3 as they are valued using a broker s price opinion and discounted based upon the Firm s experience with actual liquidation values. These discounts to the broker price opinions ranged from 5% to 59%, with a weighted average of 21%.The total change in the recorded value of assets and liabilities for which a fair value adjustment has been included in the Consolidated statements of income for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, related to financial instruments held at those dates, was a reduction of $66 million and $280 million, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, was a reduction of $170 million and $709 million, respectively. For information about the measurement of impaired collateral-dependent loans, and other loans where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral (e.g., residential mortgage loans charged off in accordance with regulatory guidance), see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.102Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair valueThe following table presents the carrying values and estimated fair values at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, of financial assets and liabilities, excluding financial instruments which are carried at fair value on a recurring basis, and information is provided on their classification within the fair value hierarchy. For additional information regarding the financial instruments within the scope of this disclosure, and the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate their fair value, see Note 3 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.(a)Carrying value includes unamortized discount or premium.(b)Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the characteristics of the underlying loans (including principal, contractual interest rate and contractual fees) and other key inputs, including expected lifetime credit losses, interest rates, prepayment rates, and primary origination or secondary market spreads. For certain loans, the fair value is measured based on the value of the underlying collateral. The difference between the estimated fair value and carrying value of a financial asset or liability is the result of the different methodologies used to determine fair value as compared with carrying value. For example, credit losses are estimated for a financial asset s remaining life in a fair value calculation but are estimated for a loss emergence period in the allowance for loan loss calculation; future loan income (interest and fees) is incorporated in a fair value calculation but is generally not considered in the allowance for loan losses. For a further discussion of the Firm s methodologies for estimating the fair value of loans and lending-related commitments, see Valuation hierarchy on pages 181 184 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.(c)Certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current presentation.(d)Carrying value includes unamortized original issue discount and other valuation adjustments.103The majority of the Firm s lending-related commitments are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated balance sheets, nor are they actively traded. The carrying value and estimated fair value of the Firm s wholesale lending-related commitments were as follows for the periods indicated.  September 30, 2015 December 31, 2014  Estimated fair value hierarchy   Estimated fair value hierarchy (in billions)Carrying value(a)Level 1Level 2Level 3Total estimated fair value Carrying value(a)Level 1Level 2Level 3Total estimated fair valueWholesale lending-related commitments$0.7$ $ $2.6$2.6 $0.6$ $ $1.6$1.6(a)Represents the allowance for wholesale lending-related commitments. Excludes the current carrying values of the guarantee liability and the offsetting asset, each of which are recognized at fair value at the inception of guarantees.The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or cancel these commitments by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. For a further discussion of the valuation of lending-related commitments, see page 182 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Note 4   Fair value option For a discussion of the primary financial instruments for which the fair value option was previously elected, including the basis for those elections and the determination of instrument-specific credit risk, where relevant, see Note 4 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Changes in fair value under the fair value option electionThe following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated statements of income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, for items for which the fair value option was elected. The profit and loss information presented below only includes the financial instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments, which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.  Three months ended September 30,  2015 2014 (in millions)Principal transactions All other incomeTotal changes in fair value recorded Principal transactions All other incomeTotal changes in fair value recordedFederal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements$63 $  $63  $(114) $  $(114) Securities borrowed(1)   (1)  (3)   (3) Trading assets:             Debt and equity instruments, excluding loans(144)   (144)  20 1(c) 21 Loans reported as trading assets:             Changes in instrument-specific credit risk12 5(c) 17  140 10(c) 150 Other changes in fair value94 277(c) 371  98 249(c) 347 Loans:             Changes in instrument-specific credit risk31   31  3   3 Other changes in fair value2   2  (2)   (2) Other assets54   54  6 21(d) 27 Deposits(a)(112)   (112)  117   117 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements(14)   (14)  15   15 Other borrowed funds(a)2,015   2,015  (56)   (56) Trading liabilities(6)   (6)  (2)   (2) Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs29   29  (54)   (54) Other liabilities             Long-term debt:             Changes in instrument-specific credit risk(a)299   299  162   162 Other changes in fair value(b)1,116   1,116  170   170 104 Nine months ended September 30, 2015 2014(in millions)Principal transactionsAll other incomeTotal changes in fair value recorded Principal transactionsAll other incomeTotal changes in fair value recordedFederal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements$37$  $37 $(58)$  $(58)Securities borrowed(5)  (5) (8)  (8)Trading assets:         Debt and equity instruments, excluding loans3751(c) 376 4952(c) 497Loans reported as trading assets:         Changes in instrument-specific credit risk22318(c) 241 89422(c) 916Other changes in fair value206657(c) 863 200941(c) 1,141Loans:         Changes in instrument-specific credit risk32  32 31  31Other changes in fair value2  2 29  29Other assets1169(d) 125 18(121)(d) (103)Deposits(a)(75)  (75) (94)  (94)Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements(5)  (5) (19)  (19)Other borrowed funds(a)2,121  2,121 (1,227)  (1,227)Trading liabilities(20)  (20) (11)  (11)Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs73  73 (191)  (191)Other liabilities     (27)  (27)Long-term debt:         Changes in instrument-specific credit risk(a)624  624 167  167Other changes in fair value(b)1,466  1,466 (621)  (621)(a)Total changes in instrument-specific credit risk (DVA) related to structured notes were $169 million and $190 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $492 million and $209 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These totals include such changes for structured notes classified within deposits and other borrowed funds, as well as long-term debt.(b)Structured notes are predominantly financial instruments containing embedded derivatives. Where present, the embedded derivative is the primary driver of risk. Although the risk associated with the structured notes is actively managed, the gains/(losses) reported in this table do not include the income statement impact of the risk management instruments used to manage such risk.(c)Reported in mortgage fees and related income.(d)Reported in other income.105Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstandingThe following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, for loans, long-term debt and long-term beneficial interests for which the fair value option has been elected. (a)There were no performing loans that were ninety days or more past due as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.(b)Remaining contractual principal is not applicable to nonprincipal-protected notes. Unlike principal-protected structured notes, for which the Firm is obligated to return a stated amount of principal at the maturity of the note, nonprincipal-protected structured notes do not obligate the Firm to return a stated amount of principal at maturity, but to return an amount based on the performance of an underlying variable or derivative feature embedded in the note. However, investors are exposed to the credit risk of the Firm as issuer for both nonprincipal-protected and principal protected notes. (c)Where the Firm issues principal-protected zero-coupon or discount notes, the balance reflects the contractual principal payment at maturity or, if applicable,  the contractual principal payment at the Firm s next call date.At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the contractual amount of letters of credit for which the fair value option was elected was $4.4 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, with a corresponding fair value of $(101) million and $(147) million, respectively. For further information regarding off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, see Note 29 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report, and Note 21 of this Form 10-Q.Structured note products by balance sheet classification and risk componentThe table below presents the fair value of the structured notes issued by the Firm, by balance sheet classification and the primary risk to which the structured notes  embedded derivative relates.106Note 5   Derivative instrumentsJPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for customers and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage its own risk exposures. For a further discussion of the Firm s use of and accounting policies regarding derivative instruments, see Note 6 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The Firm s disclosures are based on the accounting treatment and purpose of these derivatives. A limited number of the Firm s derivatives are designated in hedge  accounting relationships and are disclosed according to the type of hedge (fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or net investment hedge). Derivatives not designated in hedge accounting relationships include certain derivatives that are used to manage certain risks associated with specified assets or liabilities ( specified risk management  positions) as well as derivatives used in the Firm s market-making businesses or for other purposes. The following table outlines the Firm s primary uses of derivatives and the related hedge accounting designation or disclosure category. Type of DerivativeUse of DerivativeDesignation and disclosureAffected segment or unit10-Q page referenceManage specifically identified risk exposures in qualifying hedge accounting relationships:     Interest rateHedge fixed rate assets and liabilitiesFair value hedgeCorporate113 114  Interest rateHedge floating-rate assets and liabilitiesCash flow hedgeCorporate114 115  Foreign exchange Hedge foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilitiesFair value hedgeCorporate113 114  Foreign exchange Hedge forecasted revenue and expenseCash flow hedgeCorporate114 115  Foreign exchange Hedge the value of the Firm s investments in non-U.S. subsidiariesNet investment hedgeCorporate116  Commodity Hedge commodity inventoryFair value hedgeCIB113 114Manage specifically identified risk exposures not designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships:     Interest rateManage the risk of the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRsSpecified risk managementCCB116  CreditManage the credit risk of wholesale lending exposuresSpecified risk managementCIB116  CommodityManage the risk of certain commodities-related contracts and investmentsSpecified risk managementCIB116  Interest rate and foreign exchangeManage the risk of certain other specified assets and liabilitiesSpecified risk managementCorporate116Market-making derivatives and other activities:     VariousMarket-making and related risk managementMarket-making and otherCIB116  VariousOther derivativesMarket-making and otherCIB, Corporate116107Notional amount of derivative contractsThe following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative contracts outstanding as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.(a)For more information on volumes and types of credit derivative contracts, see the Credit derivatives discussion on pages 117 118 of this Note.(b)Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional derivative contracts.While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication of the volume of the Firm s derivatives activity, the notional amounts significantly exceed, in the Firm s view, the possible losses that could arise from such transactions. For most derivative transactions, the notional amount is not exchanged; it is used simply as a reference to calculate payments. 108Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated Balance SheetsThe following table summarizes information on derivative receivables and payables (before and after netting adjustments) that are reflected on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, by accounting designation (e.g., whether the derivatives were designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships or not) and contract type. (a)Balances exclude structured notes for which the fair value option has been elected. See Note 4 for further information.(b)As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral receivables and payables when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists.109The following table presents, as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the gross and net derivative receivables by contract and settlement type. Derivative receivables have been netted on the Consolidated balance sheets against derivative payables and cash collateral payables to the same counterparty with respect to derivative contracts for which the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the receivables are not eligible under U.S. GAAP for netting on the Consolidated balance sheets, and are shown separately in the table below. (a)Exchange-traded derivative amounts that relate to futures contracts are settled daily.(b)Included cash collateral netted of $74.3 billion and $74.0 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.110The following table presents, as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the gross and net derivative payables by contract and settlement type. Derivative payables have been netted on the Consolidated balance sheets against derivative receivables and cash collateral receivables from the same counterparty with respect to derivative contracts for which the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the payables are not eligible under U.S. GAAP for netting on the Consolidated balance sheets, and are shown separately in the table below. (a)Exchange-traded derivative balances that relate to futures contracts are settled daily.(b)Included cash collateral netted of $68.2 billion and $64.2 billion related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.111In addition to the cash collateral received and transferred that is presented on a net basis with net derivative receivables and payables, the Firm receives and transfers additional collateral (financial instruments and cash). These amounts mitigate counterparty credit risk associated with the Firm s derivative instruments but are not eligible for net presentation, because (a) the collateral consists of non-cash  financial instruments (generally U.S. government and agency securities and other G7 government bonds), (b) the amount of collateral held or transferred exceeds the fair value exposure, at the individual counterparty level, as of the date presented, or (c) the collateral relates to derivative receivables or payables where an appropriate legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained. The following tables present information regarding certain financial instrument collateral received and transferred as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, that is not eligible for net presentation under U.S. GAAP. The collateral included in these tables relates only to the derivative instruments for which appropriate legal opinions have been obtained; excluded are (i) additional collateral that exceeds the fair value exposure and (ii) all collateral related to derivative instruments where an appropriate legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained. Derivative receivables collateral      September 30, 2015 December 31, 2014(in millions)Net derivative receivablesCollateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets Net exposure Net derivative receivablesCollateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets Net exposureDerivative receivables with appropriate legal opinions$51,678$(15,706)(a) $35,972 $58,258$(16,194)(a) $42,064Derivative payables collateral(b)      September 30, 2015 December 31, 2014(in millions)Net derivative payablesCollateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets Net amount(c) Net derivative payablesCollateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets Net amount(c)Derivative payables with appropriate legal opinions$43,789$(8,424)(a) $35,365 $52,046$(10,505)(a) $41,541(a)Represents liquid security collateral as well as cash collateral held at third party custodians. For some counterparties, the collateral amounts of financial instruments may exceed the derivative receivables and derivative payables balances. Where this is the case, the total amount reported is limited to the net derivative receivables and net derivative payables balances with that counterparty.(b)Derivative payables collateral relates only to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative instruments. Amounts exclude collateral transferred related to exchange-traded derivative instruments.(c)Net amount represents exposure of counterparties to the Firm.Liquidity risk and credit-related contingent featuresFor a more detailed discussion of liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features related to the Firm s derivative contracts, see Note 6 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The following table shows the aggregate fair value of net derivative payables related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives that contain contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a ratings downgrade, and the associated collateral the Firm has posted in the normal course of business, at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.112The following table shows the impact of a single-notch and two-notch downgrade of the long-term issuer ratings of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, predominantly JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ( JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ), at September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative contracts with contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a ratings downgrade. Derivatives contracts generally require additional collateral to be posted or terminations to be triggered when the predefined threshold rating is breached. A downgrade by a single rating agency that does not result in a rating lower than a preexisting corresponding rating provided by another major rating agency will generally not result in additional collateral, except in certain instances in which additional initial margin may be required upon a ratings downgrade, or in termination payments requirements. The liquidity impact in the table is calculated based upon a downgrade below the lowest current rating of the rating agencies referred to in the derivative contract. Liquidity impact of downgrade triggers on OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives      September 30, 2015 December 31, 2014(in millions)Single-notch downgradeTwo-notch downgrade Single-notch downgradeTwo-notch downgradeAmount of additional collateral to be posted upon downgrade(a)$895$3,164 $1,046$3,331Amount required to settle contracts with termination triggers upon downgrade(b)2871,141 3661,388(a)Includes the additional collateral to be posted for initial margin.(b)Amounts represent fair values of derivative payables, and do not reflect collateral posted.Derivatives executed in contemplation of a sale of the underlying financial assetIn certain instances the Firm enters into transactions where it transfers financial assets but maintains the economic exposure to the transferred assets by entering into a derivative with the same counterparty in contemplation of the initial transfer. The Firm generally accounts for such transfers as collateralized financing transactions as described in Note 12, but in limited circumstances they may qualify to be accounted for as a sale and a derivative under U.S. GAAP. The amount of such transfers accounted for as a sale where the associated derivative was outstanding at September 30, 2015 was not material. Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated statements of incomeThe following tables provide information related to gains and losses recorded on derivatives based on their hedge accounting designation or purpose. Fair value hedge gains and lossesThe following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as well as pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 113(a)Primarily consists of hedges of the benchmark (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR )) interest rate risk of fixed-rate long-term debt and AFS securities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest income.(b)Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of long-term debt and AFS securities for changes in spot foreign currency rates. Gains and losses related to the derivatives and the hedged items, due to changes in foreign currency rates, were recorded in principal transactions revenue and net interest income.(c)Consists of overall fair value hedges of physical commodities inventories that are generally carried at the lower of cost or market (market approximates fair value). Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.(d)Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.(e)The assessment of hedge effectiveness excludes certain components of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and hedged items such as forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts and time values.Cash flow hedge gains and lossesThe following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)Three months ended September 30, 2015 (in millions)Derivatives   effective portion reclassified from AOCI to incomeHedge ineffectiveness recorded directly in income(c)Total income statement impactDerivatives   effective portion recorded in OCITotal change in OCI for periodContract type     Interest rate(a)$14$ $14$(70)$(84)Foreign exchange(b)(19) (19)(105)(86)Total$(5)$ $(5)$(175)$(170) Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)Three months ended September 30, 2014 (in millions)Derivatives   effective portion reclassified from AOCI to incomeHedge ineffectiveness recorded directly in income(c)Total income statement impactDerivatives   effective portion recorded in OCITotal change in OCI for periodContract type     Interest rate(a)$(12)$ $(12)$26$38Foreign exchange(b)43 43(92)(135)Total$31$ $31$(66)$(97)114 Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)Nine months ended September 30, 2015 (in millions)Derivatives   effective portion reclassified from AOCI to incomeHedge ineffectiveness recorded directly in income(c)Total income statement impactDerivatives   effective portion recorded in OCITotal change in OCI for periodContract type     Interest rate(a)$(113)$ $(113)$(90)$23Foreign exchange(b)(74) (74)(14)60Total$(187)$ $(187)$(104)$83 Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)Nine months ended September 30, 2014 (in millions)Derivatives   effective portion reclassified from AOCI to incomeHedge ineffectiveness recorded directly in income(c)Total income statement impactDerivatives   effective portion recorded in OCITotal change in OCI for periodContract type     Interest rate(a)$(48)$ $(48)$160$208Foreign exchange(b)81 81(11)(92)Total$33$ $33$149$116(a)Primarily consists of benchmark interest rate hedges of LIBOR-indexed floating-rate assets and floating-rate liabilities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest income, and for forecasted transactions that the Firm determined during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, were probable of not occurring, in other income.(b)Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of non-U.S. dollar-denominated revenue and expense. The income statement classification of gains and losses follows the hedged item   primarily noninterest revenue and compensation expense.(c)Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the cumulative gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument exceeds the present value of the cumulative expected change in cash flows on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.In the first quarter of 2015, the Firm reclassified approximately $150 million of net losses from accumulated other comprehensive income ( AOCI ) to other income because the Firm determined that it was probable that the forecasted interest payment cash flows would not occur as a result of the planned reduction in wholesale non-operating deposits. The Firm did not experience any forecasted transactions that failed to occur for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Over the next 12 months, the Firm expects that $11 million (after-tax) of net gains recorded in AOCI at September 30, 2015, related to cash flow hedges will be recognized in income. For terminated cash flow hedges, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are remaining is approximately 8 years. For open cash flow hedges, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is approximately 2 years. The Firm s longer-dated forecasted transactions relate to core lending and borrowing activities. 115Net investment hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such instruments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss) 2015 2014Three months ended September 30, (in millions)Excluded components recorded directly in income(a)Effective portion recorded in OCI Excluded components recorded directly in income(a)Effective portion recorded in OCIForeign exchange derivatives $(103) $908  $(114) $1,185 Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss) 2015 2014Nine months ended September 30, (in millions)Excluded components recorded directly in income(a)Effective portion recorded in OCI Excluded components recorded directly in income(a)Effective portion recorded in OCIForeign exchange derivatives $(292) $1,651  $(341) $823(a)Certain components of hedging derivatives are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, such as forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts. Amounts related to excluded components are recorded in other income. The Firm measures the ineffectiveness of net investment hedge accounting relationships based on changes in spot foreign currency rates, and therefore there was no significant ineffectiveness for net investment hedge accounting relationships during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.Gains and losses on derivatives used for specified risk management purposesThe following table presents pretax gains/(losses) recorded on a limited number of derivatives, not designated in hedge accounting relationships, that are used to manage risks associated with certain specified assets and liabilities, including certain risks arising from the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans, MSRs, wholesale lending exposures, AFS securities, foreign currency-denominated liabilities, and commodities-related contracts and investments. (a)Primarily represents interest rate derivatives used to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRs, as well as written commitments to originate warehouse loans. Gains and losses were recorded predominantly in mortgage fees and related income.(b)Relates to credit derivatives used to mitigate credit risk associated with lending exposures in the Firm s wholesale businesses. These derivatives do not include credit derivatives used to mitigate counterparty credit risk arising from derivative receivables, which is included in gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making activities and other derivatives. Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.(c)Primarily relates to hedges of the foreign exchange risk of specified foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.(d)Primarily relates to commodity derivatives used to mitigate energy price risk associated with energy-related contracts and investments. Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue. Gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making activities and other derivativesThe Firm makes markets in derivatives in order to meet the needs of customers and uses derivatives to manage certain risks associated with net open risk positions from the Firm s market-making activities, including the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative receivables. All derivatives not included in the hedge accounting or specified risk management categories above are included in this category. Gains and losses on these derivatives are primarily recorded in principal transactions revenue. See Note 6 for information on principal transactions revenue. 116Credit derivativesFor a more detailed discussion of credit derivatives, see Note 6 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The Firm does not use notional amounts of credit derivatives as the primary measure of risk management for such derivatives, because the notional amount does not take into account the probability of the occurrence of a credit event, the recovery value of the reference obligation, or related cash instruments and economic hedges, each of which reduces, in the Firm s view, the risks associated with such derivatives. Total credit derivatives and credit-related notes(a)Other credit derivatives predominantly consists of credit swap options.(b)Represents the total notional amount of protection purchased where the underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference instrument on protection sold; the notional amount of protection purchased for each individual identical underlying reference instrument may be greater or lower than the notional amount of protection sold.(c)Does not take into account the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement, which would generally reduce the amount the seller of protection pays to the buyer of protection in determining settlement value.(d)Represents protection purchased by the Firm on referenced instruments (single-name, portfolio or index) where the Firm has not sold any protection on the identical reference instrument.117The following tables summarize the notional amounts by the ratings and maturity profile, and the total fair value, of credit derivatives and credit-related notes as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, where JPMorgan Chase is the seller of protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of the credit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity on which the credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of credit derivatives and credit-related notes where JPMorgan Chase is the purchaser of protection are comparable to the profile reflected below. (a)The ratings scale is primarily based on external credit ratings defined by S&P and Moody s Investors Service ("Moody's").(b)Amounts are shown on a gross basis, before the benefit of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral received by the Firm. 118Note 6   Noninterest revenueFor a discussion of the components of and accounting policies for the Firm s noninterest revenue, see Note 7 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of investment banking fees. The following table presents all realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in principal transactions revenue. This table excludes interest income and interest expense on trading assets and liabilities, which are an integral part of the overall performance of the Firm s client-driven market-making activities. See Note 7 for further information on interest income and interest expense. Trading revenue is presented primarily by instrument type. The Firm s client-driven market-making businesses generally utilize a variety of instrument types in connection with their market-making and related risk-management activities; accordingly, the trading revenue presented in the table below is not representative of the total revenue of any individual line of business. (a)Commodity derivatives are frequently used to manage the Firm s risk exposure to its physical commodities inventories. For gains/(losses) related to commodity fair value hedges, see Note 5.(b)Includes revenue on private equity investments held in the Private Equity business within Corporate, as well as those held in other business segments. The following table presents the components of firmwide asset management, administration and commissions. (a)Represents fees earned from managing assets on behalf of the Firm s clients, including investors in Firm-sponsored funds and owners of separately managed investment accounts.(b)Represents fees for services that are ancillary to investment management services, such as commissions earned on the sales or distribution of mutual funds to clients.(c)Predominantly includes fees for custody, securities lending, funds services and securities clearance.Other incomeOther income on the Firm s Consolidated statements of income included the following: 119Note 7   Interest income and Interest expenseFor a description of JPMorgan Chase s accounting policies regarding interest income and interest expense, see Note 8 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows. (a)Represents securities which are tax-exempt for U.S. federal income tax purposes.(b)Negative interest income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, is a result of increased client-driven demand for certain securities combined with the impact of low interest rates. This is matched book activity and the negative interest expense on the corresponding securities loaned is recognized in interest expense and reported within short-term and other liabilities.(c)Largely margin loans.(d)Includes brokerage customer payables.120Note 8   Pension and other postretirement employee benefit plansFor a discussion of JPMorgan Chase s pension and other postretirement employee benefit ( OPEB ) plans, see Note 9 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the Firm s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension, defined contribution and OPEB plans.(a)Includes various defined benefit pension plans which are individually immaterial.The fair values of plan assets for the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans and for the material non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $15.9 billion and $3.5 billion, as of September 30, 2015, and $16.5 billion and $3.7 billion respectively, as of December 31, 2014. See Note 19 for further information on unrecognized amounts (i.e., net loss and prior service costs/(credit)) reflected in AOCI for the three months periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. The Firm does not anticipate any contribution to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2015 at this time. For 2015, the cost associated with funding benefits under the Firm s U.S. non-qualified defined benefit pension plans is expected to total $33 million. The 2015 contributions to the non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans are expected to be $47 million and $2 million, respectively.121Note 9   Employee stock-based incentivesFor a discussion of the accounting policies and other information relating to employee stock-based incentives, see Note 10 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The Firm recognized the following noncash compensation expense related to its various employee stock-based incentive plans in its Consolidated Statements of Income.  Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30,(in millions)2015 2014 2015 2014Cost of prior grants of restricted stock units ( RSUs ) and stock appreciation rights ( SARs ) that are amortized over their applicable vesting periods$269 $326 $856 $1,071Accrual of estimated costs of stock awards to be granted in future periods including those to full-career eligible employees195 213 683 610Total noncash compensation expense related to employee stock-based incentive plans$464 $539 $1,539 $1,681In the first quarter of 2015, in connection with its annual incentive grant for the 2014 performance year, the Firm granted 34 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $55.91 per RSU.  Note 10   Noninterest expenseFor details on Noninterest expense, see Consolidated statements of income on page 86. Included within other expense is the following: 122Note 11   SecuritiesSecurities are classified as trading, AFS or held-to-maturity ( HTM ). Securities classified as trading assets are discussed in Note 3. Predominantly all of the Firm s AFS and HTM investment securities (the  investment securities portfolio ) are held by the Chief Investment Office ( CIO ) in connection with the Firm's asset-liability management objectives. At September 30, 2015, the average credit  rating of the debt securities comprising the investment securities portfolio was AA+ (based upon external ratings where available, and where not available, based primarily upon internal ratings which correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody s). For additional information regarding the investment securities portfolio, see Note 12 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The amortized costs and estimated fair values of the investment securities portfolio were as follows for the dates indicated. (a)Included total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations with fair values of $41.6 billion and $59.3 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.(b)As of September 30, 2015, consists of MBS issued by U. S. government-sponsored enterprises with an amortized cost of $31.9 billion, MBS issued by U.S. government agencies with an amortized cost of $5.6 billion and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities with an amortized cost of $12.7 billion. As of December 31, 2014, consists of MBS issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises with an amortized cost of $35.3 billion, MBS issued by U.S. government agencies with an amortized cost of $3.7 billion and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities with an amortized cost of $10.2 billion.123Securities impairmentThe following tables present the fair value and gross unrealized losses for investment securities by aging category at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.124Gross unrealized lossesThe Firm has recognized the unrealized losses on securities it intends to sell. As of September 30, 2015, the Firm does not intend to sell any securities with a loss position in AOCI, and it is not likely that the Firm will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Except for the securities for which credit losses have been recognized in income, the Firm believes that the securities with an unrealized loss in AOCI are not other-than-temporarily impaired as of September 30, 2015.Securities gains and lossesThe following table presents realized gains and losses and other-than-temporary impairment losses ( OTTI ) from AFS securities that were recognized in income. Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired debt securitiesThe following table presents a rollforward for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, of the credit loss component of OTTI losses that have been recognized in income related to AFS debt securities that the Firm does not intend to sell.  Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30,(in millions)20152014 20152014Balance, beginning of period$4$1 $3$1Additions:   Newly credit-impaired securities   1 Balance, end of period$4$1 $4$1125Contractual maturities and yieldsThe following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at September 30, 2015, of JPMorgan Chase s investment securities portfolio by contractual maturity. (a)U.S. government-sponsored enterprises were the only issuers whose securities exceeded 10% of JPMorgan Chase s total stockholders  equity at September 30, 2015.(b)Average yield is computed using the effective yield of each security owned at the end of the period, weighted based on the amortized cost of each security. The effective yield considers the contractual coupon, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, and the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable. The effective yield excludes unscheduled principal prepayments, and accordingly, actual maturities of securities may differ from their contractual or expected maturities as certain securities may be prepaid.(c)Includes securities with no stated maturity. Substantially all of the Firm s residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are due in ten years or more, based on contractual maturity. The estimated weighted-average life, which reflects anticipated future prepayments, is approximately six years for agency residential mortgage-backed securities, two years for agency residential collateralized mortgage obligations and three years for U.S. nonagency residential collateralized mortgage obligations.126Note 12   Securities financing activitiesJPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned transactions (collectively,  securities financing agreements ) primarily to finance the Firm s inventory positions, acquire securities to cover short positions, accommodate customers  financing needs, and settle other securities obligations. Securities financing agreements are treated as collateralized financings on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets. Resale and repurchase agreements are generally carried at the amounts at which the securities will be subsequently sold or repurchased. Securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions are generally carried at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received. Where appropriate under applicable accounting guidance, resale and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis. For further discussion of the offsetting of assets and liabilities, see Note 1. Fees received and paid in connection with securities financing agreements are recorded in interest income and interest expense on the Consolidated statements of income. The Firm has elected the fair value option for certain securities financing agreements. For further information regarding the fair value option, see Note 4. The securities financing agreements for which the fair value option has been elected are reported within securities purchased under resale agreements; securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements; and securities borrowed on the Consolidated balance sheets. Generally, for agreements carried at fair value, current-period interest accruals are recorded within interest income and interest expense, with changes in fair value reported in principal transactions  revenue. However, for financial instruments containing embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted for in accordance with accounting guidance for hybrid instruments, all changes in fair value, including any interest elements, are reported in principal transactions revenue. Secured financing transactions expose the Firm to credit and liquidity risk. To manage these risks, the Firm monitors the value of the underlying securities (predominantly high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued debt and agency MBS) that it has received from or provided to its counterparties compared to the value of cash proceeds and exchanged collateral and either requests additional collateral or returns securities or collateral when appropriate. Margin levels are initially established based upon the counterparty, the type of underlying securities, and the permissible collateral, and are monitored on an ongoing basis. In resale agreements and securities borrowed transactions, the Firm is exposed to credit risk to the extent the value of the securities received is less than initial cash proceeds and any collateral amounts exchanged. In repurchase agreements and securities loaned transactions, credit risk exposure arises to the extent that the value of underlying securities exceeds the value of the initial cash proceeds and, any collateral amounts exchanged. Additionally, the Firm typically enters into master netting agreements and other similar arrangements with its counterparties, which provide for the right to liquidate the underlying securities and any collateral amounts exchanged in the event of a counterparty default. It is also the Firm s policy to take possession, where possible, of the securities underlying resale agreements and securities borrowed transactions. The following table presents as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the gross and net securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed. Securities purchased under resale agreements have been presented on the Consolidated balance sheets net of securities sold under repurchase agreements where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement, and where the other relevant criteria have been met. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities purchased under resale agreements are not eligible for netting and are shown separately in the table below. Securities borrowed are presented on a gross basis on the Consolidated balance sheets. (a)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included securities purchased under resale agreements of $27.4 billion and $28.6 billion, respectively, accounted for at fair value.(b)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included securities borrowed of $405 million and $992 million, respectively, accounted for at fair value.(c)Included $21.5 billion and $27.7 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, of securities borrowed where an appropriate legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained with respect to the master netting agreement.127The following table presents information as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, regarding the securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed for which an appropriate legal opinion has been obtained with respect to the master netting agreement. The table below excludes information related to resale agreements and securities borrowed where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained.  September 30, 2015 December 31, 2014   Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets(a)    Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets(a)  (in millions)Net asset balance Financial instruments(b)Cash collateralNet exposure Net asset balance Financial instruments(b) Cash collateral Net exposureSecurities purchased under resale agreements with an appropriate legal opinion$214,644 $(211,255)$(518)$2,871 $204,423 $(201,375) $(246) $2,802Securities borrowed$84,157 $(81,413)$ $2,744 $82,748 $(80,338) $  $2,410(a)For some counterparties, the sum of the financial instruments and cash collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets may exceed the net asset balance. Where this is the case the total amounts reported in these two columns are limited to the balance of the net reverse repurchase agreement or securities borrowed asset with that counterparty. As a result a net exposure amount is reported even though the Firm, on an aggregate basis for its securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed, has received securities collateral with a total fair value that is greater than the funds provided to counterparties.(b)Includes financial instrument collateral received, repurchase liabilities and securities loaned liabilities with an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement; these amounts are not presented net on the Consolidated balance sheets because other U.S. GAAP netting criteria are not met.The following table presents as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the gross and net securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities loaned. Securities sold under repurchase agreements have been presented on the Consolidated balance sheets net of securities purchased under resale agreements where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement, and where the other relevant criteria have been met. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities sold under repurchase agreements are not eligible for netting and are shown separately in the table below. Securities loaned are presented on a gross basis on the Consolidated balance sheets. (a)Includes repurchase agreements that are not subject to a master netting agreement but do provide rights to collateral.(b)Included securities-for-securities lending transactions of $5.8 billion and $4.1 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, accounted for at fair value, where the Firm is acting as lender. These amounts are presented within other liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheets.(c)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included securities sold under repurchase agreements of $3.6 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, accounted for at fair value.(d)There were no securities loaned accounted for at fair value as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.(e)Included $41 million and $271 million at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, of securities loaned where an appropriate legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained with respect to the master netting agreement.128The following table presents information as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, regarding the securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities loaned for which an appropriate legal opinion has been obtained with respect to the master netting agreement. The table below excludes information related to repurchase agreements and securities loaned where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained.  September 30, 2015 December 31, 2014   Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets(a)    Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets(a)  (in millions)Net liability balance Financial instruments(b)Cash collateralNet amount(c) Net liability balance Financial instruments(b) Cash collateral Net amount(c)Securities sold under repurchase agreements with an appropriate legal opinion$150,368 $(146,749)$(442)$3,177 $147,810 $(145,732) $(497) $1,581Securities loaned$20,697 $(20,553)$ $144 $25,656 $(25,287) $  $369(a)For some counterparties the sum of the financial instruments and cash collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets may exceed the net liability balance. Where this is the case the total amounts reported in these two columns are limited to the balance of the net repurchase agreement or securities loaned liability with that counterparty.(b)Includes financial instrument collateral transferred, reverse repurchase assets and securities borrowed assets with an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement; these amounts are not presented net on the Consolidated balance sheets because other U.S. GAAP netting criteria are not met.(c)Net amount represents exposure of counterparties to the Firm.Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance, which requires enhanced disclosures with respect to the types of financial assets pledged in secured financing transactions and the remaining contractual maturity of the secured financing transactions; the following tables present this information as of September 30, 2015.Transfers not qualifying for sale accountingAt September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm held $11.2 billion and $13.8 billion, respectively, of financial assets for which the rights have been transferred to third parties; however, the transfers did not qualify as a sale in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These transfers have been recognized as collateralized financing transactions. The transferred assets are recorded in trading assets and loans, and the corresponding liabilities are recorded predominantly in other borrowed funds on the Consolidated balance sheets. 129Note 13   LoansLoan accounting frameworkThe accounting for a loan depends on management s strategy for the loan, and on whether the loan was credit-impaired at the date of acquisition. The Firm accounts for loans based on the following categories: Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment (i.e.,  retained ), other than purchased credit-impaired ( PCI ) loans  Loans held-for-sale Loans at fair value PCI loans held-for-investment For a detailed discussion of loans, including accounting policies, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. See Note 4 of this Form 10-Q for further information on the Firm s elections of fair value accounting under the fair value option. See Note 3 of this Form 10-Q for further information on loans carried at fair value and classified as trading assets.Loan portfolioThe Firm s loan portfolio is divided into three portfolio segments, which are the same segments used by the Firm to determine the allowance for loan losses: Consumer, excluding credit card; Credit card; and Wholesale. Within each portfolio segment, the Firm monitors and assesses the credit risk in the following classes of loans, based on the risk characteristics of each loan class:Consumer, excluding credit card(a) Credit card Wholesale(c)Residential real estate   excluding PCI  Home equity   senior lien  Home equity   junior lien  Prime mortgage, including    option ARMs  Subprime mortgageOther consumer loans  Auto(b)  Business banking(b)  Student and otherResidential real estate   PCI  Home equity  Prime mortgage  Subprime mortgage  Option ARMs   Credit card loans   Commercial and industrial  Real estate  Financial institutions  Government agencies  Other(d)(a)Includes loans held in CCB, prime mortgage and home equity loans held in AM and prime mortgage loans held in Corporate.(b)Includes certain business banking and auto dealer risk-rated loans that apply the wholesale methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses; these loans are managed by CCB, and therefore, for consistency in presentation, are included with the other consumer loan classes.(c)Includes loans held in CIB, CB, AM and Corporate. Excludes prime mortgage and home equity loans held in AM and prime mortgage loans held in Corporate. Classes are internally defined and may not align with regulatory definitions.(d)Other primarily includes loans to SPEs and loans to private banking clients. See Note 1 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report for additional information on special-purpose entities ( SPEs ).130The following tables summarize the Firm s loan balances by portfolio segment. (a)Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.(b)Loans (other than PCI loans and those for which the fair value option has been elected) are presented net of unearned income, unamortized discounts and premiums, and net deferred loan costs of $628 million and $1.3 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.The following tables provide information about the carrying value of retained loans purchased, sold and reclassified to held-for-sale during the periods indicated. These tables exclude loans recorded at fair value. The Firm manages its exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis. Selling loans is one way that the Firm reduces its credit exposures. (a)Purchases predominantly represent the Firm s voluntary repurchase of certain delinquent loans from loan pools as permitted by Ginnie Mae guidelines. The Firm typically elects to repurchase these delinquent loans as it continues to service them and/or manage the foreclosure process in accordance with applicable requirements of Ginnie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), Rural Housing Services ( RHS ) and/or the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs ( VA ).(b)Excluded retained loans purchased from correspondents that were originated in accordance with the Firm s underwriting standards. Such purchases were $14.4 billion and $4.1 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $39.8 billion and $8.2 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.The following table provides information about gains and losses, including lower of cost or fair value adjustments, on loan sales by portfolio segment. Three months endedSeptember 30, Nine months endedSeptember 30,(in millions)20152014 20152014Net gains/(losses) on sales of loans (including lower of cost or fair value adjustments)(a)     Consumer, excluding credit card$62$97 $239$223Credit card13(9) 22(9)Wholesale3326 3253Total net gains/(losses) on sales of loans (including lower of cost or fair value adjustments)$108$114 $293$267(a)Excludes sales related to loans accounted for at fair value.131Consumer, excluding credit card loan portfolioConsumer loans, excluding credit card loans, consist primarily of residential mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit, auto loans, business banking loans, and student and other loans, with a focus on serving the prime consumer credit market. The portfolio also includes home equity loans secured by junior liens, prime mortgage loans with an interest-only payment period, and certain payment-option loans originated by Washington Mutual that may result in negative amortization.  The table below provides information about retained consumer loans, excluding credit card, by class.For further information on consumer credit quality indicators, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.132Residential real estate   excluding PCI loansThe following table provides information by class for residential real estate   excluding retained PCI loans in the consumer, excluding credit card, portfolio segment. (a)Individual delinquency classifications include mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies as follows: current included $2.7 billion and $2.6 billion; 30 149 days past due included $3.0 billion and $3.5 billion; and 150 or more days past due included $5.3 billion and $6.0 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.(b)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, Prime, including option ARMs loans excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $8.3 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans based upon the government guarantee.(c)These balances, which are 90 days or more past due, were excluded from nonaccrual loans as the loans are guaranteed by U.S government agencies. Typically, the principal balance of the loans is insured and interest is guaranteed at a specified reimbursement rate subject to meeting agreed-upon servicing guidelines. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, these balances included $3.8 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively, of loans that are no longer accruing interest based on the agreed-upon servicing guidelines. For the remaining balance, interest is being accrued at the guaranteed reimbursement rate. There were no loans not guaranteed by U.S. government agencies that are 90 or more days past due and still accruing at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.(d)Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a minimum, quarterly, based on home valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not available. These property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as estimates.(e)Junior lien represents combined loan-to-value ( LTV ), which considers all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property. All other products are presented without consideration of subordinate liens on the property.(f)Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quarterly basis.(g)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $11.0 billion and $12.1 billion, respectively.133The following table represents the Firm s delinquency statistics for junior lien home equity loans and lines as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.(a)These HELOCs are predominantly revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to a loan with a 20-year amortization period, but also include HELOCs originated by Washington Mutual that allow interest-only payments beyond the revolving period.(b) The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are experiencing financial difficulty or when the collateral does not support the loan amount. Home equity lines of credit ( HELOCs ) beyond the revolving period and home equity loans ( HELOANs ) have higher delinquency rates than do HELOCs within the revolving period. That is primarily because the fully-amortizing payment that is generally required for those products is higher than the minimum payment options available for HELOCs within the revolving period. The higher delinquency rates associated with amortizing HELOCs and HELOANs are factored into the loss estimates produced by the Firm s delinquency roll-rate methodology, which estimates defaults based on the current delinquency status of a portfolio.Impaired loansThe table below sets forth information about the Firm s residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans. These loans are considered to be impaired as they have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring ( TDR ). All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 15 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.(a)Represents collateral-dependent residential mortgage loans that are charged off to the fair value of the underlying collateral less cost to sell. The Firm reports, in accordance with regulatory guidance, residential real estate loans that have been discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower ( Chapter 7 loans ) as collateral-dependent nonaccrual TDRs, regardless of their delinquency status. At September 30, 2015, Chapter 7 residential real estate loans included approximately 18% of senior lien home equity, 10% of junior lien home equity, 19% of prime mortgages, including option ARMs, and 14% of subprime mortgages that were 30 days or more past due.(b)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, $4.2 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Government National Mortgage Association ( Ginnie Mae ) in accordance with the standards of the appropriate government agency (i.e., FHA, VA, RHS) are not included in the table above. When such loans perform subsequent to modification in accordance with Ginnie Mae guidelines, they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to foreclosure.(c)Predominantly all residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans, are in the U.S.(d)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to various factors, including charge-offs, net deferred loan fees or costs; and unamortized discounts or premiums on purchased loans.(e)As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, nonaccrual loans included $2.6 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of TDRs for which the borrowers were less than 90 days past due. For additional information about loans modified in a TDR that are on nonaccrual status refer to the Loan accounting framework in Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.134The following tables present average impaired loans and the related interest income reported by the Firm.(a)Generally, interest income on loans modified in TDRs is recognized on a cash basis until such time as the borrower has made a minimum of six payments under the new terms.Loan modificationsThe Firm is required to provide borrower relief under the terms of certain Consent Orders and settlements entered into by the Firm related to its mortgage servicing, originations and residential mortgage-backed securities activities. This borrower relief includes reductions of principal and forbearance.Modifications of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, are generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. There were no additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, have been modified in TDRs. The following table presents new TDRs reported by the Firm.135Nature and extent of modificationsThe U.S. Treasury's Making Home Affordable ( MHA ) programs, as well as the Firm s proprietary modification programs, generally provide various concessions to financially troubled borrowers including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions, term or payment extensions and deferral of principal and/or interest payments that would otherwise have been required under the terms of the original agreement. The following tables provide information about how residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, were modified under the Firm s loss mitigation programs during the periods presented. These tables exclude Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession granted is the discharge of debt. (a)Represents concessions granted in permanent modifications as a percentage of the number of loans permanently modified. The sum of the percentages exceeds 100% because predominantly all of the modifications include more than one type of concession. A significant portion of trial modifications include interest rate reductions and/or term or payment extensions.(b)Represents variable interest rate to fixed interest rate modifications.136Financial effects of modifications and redefaultsThe following tables provide information about the financial effects of the various concessions granted in modifications of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI, under the Firm s loss mitigation programs and about redefaults of certain loans modified in TDRs for the periods presented. Because the specific types and amounts of concessions offered to borrowers frequently change between the trial modification and the permanent modification, the following tables present only the financial effects of permanent modifications. These tables also exclude Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession granted is the discharge of debt. (a)Represents loans permanently modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in the periods presented, and for which the payment default occurred within one year of the modification. The dollar amounts presented represent the balance of such loans at the end of the reporting period in which such loans defaulted. For residential real estate loans modified in TDRs, payment default is deemed to occur when the loan becomes two contractual payments past due. In the event that a modified loan redefaults, it is probable that the loan will ultimately be liquidated through foreclosure or another similar type of liquidation transaction. Redefaults of loans modified within the last 12 months may not be representative of ultimate redefault levels.At September 30, 2015, the weighted-average estimated remaining lives of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, permanently modified in TDRs were 10 years for senior lien home equity, 9 years for junior lien home equity, 10 years for prime mortgages, including option ARMs, and 8 years for subprime mortgages. The estimated remaining lives of these loans reflect estimated prepayments, both voluntary and involuntary (i.e., foreclosures and other forced liquidations). Active and suspended foreclosureAt September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm had non-PCI residential real estate loans, excluding those insured by U.S. government agencies, with a carrying value of $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, that were not included in REO, but were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure.137Other consumer loansThe table below provides information for other consumer retained loan classes, including auto, business banking and student loans. (a)Individual delinquency classifications included loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program ( FFELP ) as follows: current included $4.0 billion and $4.3 billion; 30-119 days past due included $279 million and $364 million; and 120 or more days past due included $228 million and $290 million at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.(b)These amounts represent student loans, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP. These amounts were accruing as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally.(c)For risk-rated business banking and auto loans, the primary credit quality indicator is the risk rating of the loan, including whether the loans are considered to be criticized and/or nonaccrual.(d)September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, excluded loans 30 days or more past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP, of $507 million and $654 million, respectively. These amounts were excluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally.138Other consumer impaired loans and loan modificationsThe table below sets forth information about the Firm s other consumer impaired loans, including risk-rated business banking and auto loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status, and loans that have been modified in TDRs. (a)When discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, the loan does not require an allowance. This typically occurs when the impaired loans have been partially charged off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance.(b)Predominantly all other consumer impaired loans are in the U.S.(c)Other consumer average impaired loans were $543 million and $603 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $565 million and $701 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The related interest income on impaired loans, including those on a cash basis, was not material for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.(d)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to various factors, including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the principal balance; net deferred loan fees or costs; and unamortized discounts or premiums on purchased loans. Loan modificationsCertain other consumer loan modifications are considered to be TDRs as they provide various concessions to borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. All of these TDRs are reported as impaired loans in the table above. See Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report for further information on other consumer loans modified in TDRs. The following table provides information about the Firm s other consumer loans modified in TDRs. New TDRs were not material for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.(a)The impact of these modifications was not material to the Firm for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.(b)Additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose loans have been modified in TDRs as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, were immaterial.139Purchased credit-impaired loansFor a detailed discussion of PCI loans, including the related accounting policies, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Residential real estate   PCI loansThe table below sets forth information about the Firm s consumer, excluding credit card, PCI loans. (a)Carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of acquisition.(b)Management concluded as part of the Firm s regular assessment of the PCI loan pools that it was probable that higher expected credit losses would result in a decrease in expected cash flows. As a result, an allowance for loan losses for impairment of these pools has been recognized.(c)Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a minimum, quarterly, based on home valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not available. These property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as estimates. Current estimated combined LTV for junior lien home equity loans considers all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property.(d)Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quarterly basis.140Approximately 20% of the PCI home equity portfolio are senior lien loans; the remaining balance are junior lien HELOANs or HELOCs. The following tables set forth delinquency statistics for PCI junior lien home equity loans and lines of credit based on the unpaid principal balance as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.(a)In general, these HELOCs are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to an interest-only loan with a balloon payment at the end of the loan s term.(b)Substantially all undrawn HELOCs within the revolving period have been closed.(c)Includes loans modified into fixed rate amortizing loans. The table below sets forth the accretable yield activity for the Firm s PCI consumer loans for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, and represents the Firm s estimate of gross interest income expected to be earned over the remaining life of the PCI loan portfolios. The table excludes the cost to fund the PCI portfolios, and therefore the accretable yield does not represent net interest income expected to be earned on these portfolios. (a)Other changes in expected cash flows may vary from period to period as the Firm continues to refine its cash flow model and periodically updates model assumptions. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, other changes in expected cash flows were driven by changes in prepayment assumptions.(b)Reclassifications from nonaccretable difference in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 were driven by continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies, as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates.The factors that most significantly affect estimates of gross cash flows expected to be collected, and accordingly the accretable yield balance, include: (i) changes in the benchmark interest rate indices for variable-rate products such as option adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ) and home equity loans; and (ii) changes in prepayment assumptions.Active and suspended foreclosureAt September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm had PCI residential real estate loans with an unpaid principal balance of $2.4 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, that were not included in REO, but were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure.141Credit card loan portfolioThe table below sets forth information about the Firm s credit card loans.Credit card impaired loans and loan modificationsFor a detailed discussion of impaired credit card loans, including credit card loan modifications, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The table below sets forth information about the Firm s impaired credit card loans. All of these loans are considered to be impaired as they have been modified in TDRs. (in millions)September 30, 2015December 31, 2014Impaired credit card loans with an allowance(a)(b)  Credit card loans with modified payment terms(c)$1,370$1,775Modified credit card loans that have reverted to pre-modification payment terms(d)193254Total impaired credit card loans(e)$1,563$2,029Allowance for loan losses related to impaired credit card loans$485$500(a)The carrying value and the unpaid principal balance are the same for credit card impaired loans.(b)There were no impaired loans without an allowance.(c)Represents credit card loans outstanding to borrowers enrolled in a credit card modification program as of the date presented.(d)Represents credit card loans that were modified in TDRs but that have subsequently reverted back to the loans  pre-modification payment terms. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, $122 million and $159 million, respectively, of loans have reverted back to the pre-modification payment terms of the loans due to noncompliance with the terms of the modified loans. The remaining $71 million and $95 million at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, of these loans are to borrowers who have successfully completed a short-term modification program. The Firm continues to report these loans as TDRs since the borrowers  credit lines remain closed.(e)Predominantly all impaired credit card loans are in the U.S.The following table presents average balances of impaired credit card loans and interest income recognized on those loans. Loan modificationsThe Firm may modify loans to credit card borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. Most of these loans have been modified under programs that involve placing the customer on a fixed payment plan with a reduced interest rate, generally for 60 months. All of these credit card loan modifications are considered to be TDRs. New enrollments in these loan modification programs were $154 million and $196 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $483 million and $622 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For additional information about credit card loan modifications, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Financial effects of modifications and redefaultsThe following table provides information about the financial effects of the concessions granted on credit card loans modified in TDRs and redefaults for the periods presented. (a)Represents loans modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in the periods presented, and for which the payment default occurred within one year of the modification. The amounts presented represent the balance of such loans as of the end of the quarter in which they defaulted.For credit card loans modified in TDRs, payment default is deemed to have occurred when the loans become two payments past due. A substantial portion of these loans is expected to be charged-off in accordance with the Firm s standard charge-off policy. Based on historical experience, the estimated weighted-average default rate for credit card loans modified was expected to be 26.04%and 27.91% as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. 142Wholesale loan portfolioWholesale loans include loans made to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals. The primary credit quality indicator for wholesale loans is the risk rating  assigned each loan. For further information on these risk ratings, see Note 14 and Note 15 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The table below provides information by class of receivable for the retained loans in the Wholesale portfolio segment. (a)The U.S. and non-U.S. distribution is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower.(b)The credit quality of wholesale loans is assessed primarily through ongoing review and monitoring of an obligor s ability to meet contractual obligations rather than relying on the past due status, which is generally a lagging indicator of credit quality. For a discussion of more significant risk factors, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.(c)Represents loans that are considered well-collateralized and therefore still accruing interest.(d)Other primarily includes loans to SPEs and loans to private banking clients. See Note 1 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report for additional information on SPEs.The following table presents additional information on the real estate class of loans within the Wholesale portfolio segment for the periods indicated. For further information on real estate loans, see Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.143Wholesale impaired loans and loan modificationsWholesale impaired loans consist of loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and/or that have been modified in a TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 15 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The table below sets forth information about the Firm s wholesale impaired loans.(a)When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, the loan does not require an allowance. This typically occurs when the impaired loans have been partially charged-off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance.(b)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to various factors, including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the carrying value; net deferred loan fees or costs; and unamortized discount or premiums on purchased loans.(c)Based upon the domicile of the borrower, predominantly all wholesale impaired loans are in the U.S. The following table presents the Firm s average impaired loans for the periods indicated.(a)The related interest income on accruing impaired loans and interest income recognized on a cash basis were not material for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Certain loan modifications are considered to be TDRs as they provide various concessions to borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. All TDRs are reported as impaired loans in the tables above. TDRs were not material as of September 30, 2015 and 2014.144Note 14   Allowance for credit lossesFor detailed discussion of the allowance for credit losses and the related accounting policies, see Note 15 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Allowance for credit losses and loans and lending-related commitments by impairment methodologyThe table below summarizes information about the allowance for loan losses, loans by impairment methodology, the allowance for lending-related commitments and lending-related commitments by impairment methodology. (a)Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool (e.g., upon liquidation). (b)Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR.(c)The asset-specific credit card allowance for loan losses is related to loans that have been modified in a TDR; such allowance is calculated based on the loans  original contractual interest rates and does not consider any incremental penalty rates.145Note 15   Variable interest entitiesFor a further description of JPMorgan Chase s accounting policies regarding consolidation of variable interest entities ( VIEs ), see Note 1 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The following table summarizes the most significant types of Firm-sponsored VIEs by business segment.Line-of-BusinessTransaction TypeActivityForm 10-Q page referenceCCBCredit card securitization trustsSecuritization of both originated and purchased credit card receivables146 Mortgage securitization trustsServicing and securitization of both originated and purchased residential mortgages146 148CIBMortgage and other securitization trustsSecuritization of both originated and purchased residential and commercial mortgages, and student loans146 148 Multi-seller conduitsInvestor intermediation activities:Assist clients in accessing the financial markets in a cost-efficient manner and structures transactions to meet investor needs148 Municipal bond vehicles 148 149 Credit-related note and asset swap vehicles 149The Firm also invests in and provides financing and other services to VIEs sponsored by third parties, as described on page 149 of this Note.Significant Firm-sponsored variable interest entitiesCredit card securitizationsFor a more detailed discussion of JPMorgan Chase s involvement with credit card securitizations, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.As a result of the Firm s continuing involvement, the Firm is considered to be the primary beneficiary of its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. This includes the Firm s primary card securitization trust, Chase Issuance Trust. See the table on page 150 of this Note for further information on consolidated VIE assets and liabilities. Firm-sponsored mortgage and other securitization trustsThe Firm securitizes (or has securitized) originated and purchased residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and other consumer loans (including student loans) primarily in its CCB and CIB businesses. Depending on the particular transaction, as well as the respective business involved, the Firm may act as the servicer of the loans and/or retain certain beneficial interest in the securitization trusts.For a detailed discussion of the Firm s involvement with Firm-sponsored mortgage and other securitization trusts, as well as the accounting treatment relating to such trusts, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.146The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in Firm-sponsored private-label securitization entities, including those in which the Firm has continuing involvement, and those that are consolidated by the Firm. Continuing involvement includes servicing the loans; holding senior interests or subordinated interests; recourse or guarantee arrangements; and derivative transactions. In certain instances, the Firm s only continuing involvement is servicing the loans. See Securitization activity on page 151 of this Note for further information regarding the Firm s cash flows with and interests retained in nonconsolidated VIEs, and page 151 of this Note for information on the Firm s loan sales to U.S. government agencies. Principal amount outstanding JPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets in nonconsolidated VIEs(c)(d)(e)September 30, 2015(a) (in billions)Total assets held by securitization VIEsAssets held in consolidated securitization VIEsAssets held in nonconsolidated securitization VIEs with continuing involvement Trading assetsAFS securitiesTotal interests held by JPMorgan ChaseSecuritization-related       Residential mortgage:       Prime/Alt-A and Option ARMs$88.7$1.5$73.8 $0.5$1.7$2.2Subprime25.20.123.3 0.1 0.1Commercial and other(b)125.60.287.3 0.53.64.1Total$239.5$1.8$184.4 $1.1$5.3$6.4 Principal amount outstanding JPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets in nonconsolidated VIEs(c)(d)(e)December 31, 2014(a) (in billions)Total assets held by securitization VIEsAssets held in consolidated securitization VIEsAssets held in nonconsolidated securitization VIEs with continuing involvement Trading assetsAFS securitiesTotal interests held by JPMorgan ChaseSecuritization-related       Residential mortgage:       Prime/Alt-A and Option ARMs$96.3$2.7$78.3 $0.5$0.7$1.2Subprime28.40.825.7 0.1 0.1Commercial and other(b)129.60.294.4 0.43.53.9Total$254.3$3.7$198.4 $1.0$4.2$5.2(a)Excludes U.S. government agency securitizations. See page 151 of this Note for information on the Firm s loan sales to U.S. government agencies.(b)Consists of securities backed by commercial loans (predominantly real estate) and non-mortgage-related consumer receivables purchased from third parties. The Firm generally does not retain a residual interest in its sponsored commercial mortgage securitization transactions.(c)The table above excludes the following: retained servicing (see Note 16 for a discussion of MSRs); securities retained from loan sales to U.S. government agencies; interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives primarily used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risks of securitization entities (See Note 5 for further information on derivatives); senior and subordinated securities of $132 million and $64 million, respectively, at September 30, 2015, and $136 million and $34 million, respectively, at December 31, 2014, which the Firm purchased in connection with CIB s secondary market-making activities.(d)Includes interests held in re-securitization transactions.(e)As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, 76% and 77%, respectively, of the Firm s retained securitization interests, which are carried at fair value, were risk-rated  A  or better, on an S&P-equivalent basis. The retained interests in prime residential mortgages consisted of $2.1 billion and $1.1 billion of investment-grade and $115 million and $185 million of noninvestment-grade retained interests at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. The retained interests in commercial and other securitizations trusts consisted of $3.8 billion and $3.7 billion of investment-grade and $239 million and $194 million of noninvestment-grade retained interests at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.147Residential mortgagesFor a more detailed description of the Firm s involvement with residential mortgage securitizations, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm did not consolidate the assets of certain Firm-sponsored residential mortgage securitization VIEs, in which the Firm had continuing involvement, primarily due to the fact that the Firm did not hold an interest in these trusts that could potentially be significant to the trusts. See the table on page 150 of this Note for more information on the consolidated residential mortgage securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this Note for further information on interests held in nonconsolidated residential mortgage securitizations.Commercial mortgages and other consumer securitizationsCIB originates and securitizes commercial mortgage loans, and engages in underwriting and trading activities involving the securities issued by securitization trusts. For a more detailed description of the Firm s involvement with commercial mortgage and other consumer securitizations, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. See the table on page 150 of this Note for more information on the consolidated commercial mortgage securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this Note for more information on interests held in nonconsolidated securitizations.Re-securitizationsFor a more detailed description of JPMorgan Chase sparticipation in re-securitization transactions, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.During the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, the Firm transferred $6.6 billion and $7.5 billion respectively of securities to agency VIEs, and $50 million and $237 million, respectively, of securities to private-label VIEs.During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, the Firm transferred $16.8 billion and $20.8 billion respectively of securities to agency VIEs, and $777 million and $670 million, respectively, of securities to private-label VIEs.As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm did not consolidate any agency re-securitizations. As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm consolidated $48 million and $77 million, respectively, of assets, and $9 million and $21 million, respectively, of liabilities of private-label re-securitizations. See the table on page 150 of this Note for more information on consolidated re-securitization transactions. As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, total assets (including the notional amount of interest-only securities) of nonconsolidated Firm-sponsored private-label re-securitization entities in which the Firm has continuing involvement were $2.2 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm held approximately $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, of interests in nonconsolidated agency re-securitization entities, and $2 million and $36 million, respectively, of senior and subordinated interests in nonconsolidated private-label re-securitization entities. See the table on page 151 of this Note for further information on interests held in nonconsolidated securitizations.Multi-seller conduitsFor a more detailed description of JPMorgan Chase s principal involvement with Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase makes markets in and invests in commercial paper, including commercial paper issued by the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. The Firm held $6.1 billion and $5.7 billion of the commercial paper issued by the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, which was eliminated in consolidation. The Firm s investments reflect the Firm s funding needs and capacity and were not driven by market illiquidity. The Firm is not obligated under any agreement to purchase the commercial paper issued by the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits.Deal-specific liquidity facilities, program-wide liquidity and credit enhancement provided by the Firm to the multi-seller conduits have been eliminated in consolidation. Unfunded lending-related commitments made to clients of the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits were $6.9 billion and $9.9 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and are reported as off-balance sheet lending-related commitments. For more information on off-balance sheet lending-related commitments, see Note 21.VIEs associated with investor intermediation activitiesMunicipal bond vehiclesFor a more detailed description of JPMorgan Chase s principal involvement with municipal bond vehicles, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.148The Firm s exposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, including the ratings profile of the VIEs  assets, was as follows.(in billions)(a)Fair value of assets held by VIEsLiquidity facilitiesExcess/(deficit)(b)Maximum exposureNonconsolidated municipal bond vehicles    September 30, 2015$11.6$6.5$5.1$6.5December 31, 201411.56.35.26.3 Ratings profile of VIE assets(c)Fair value of assets held by VIEsWt. avg. expected life of assets (years) Investment-grade Noninvestment- grade(in billions, except where otherwise noted)(a)AAA to AAA-AA+ to AA-A+ to A-BBB+ to BBB- BB+ and belowSeptember 30, 20152.78.20.7   11.64.7December 31, 20142.78.40.4   11.54.9(a)Includes municipal bond VIEs sponsored by third parties, but where the Firm provides the liquidity facility and serves as the remarketing agent.(b)Represents the excess/(deficit) of the fair values of municipal bond assets available to repay the liquidity facilities, if drawn.(c)The ratings scale is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.Credit-related note and asset swap vehiclesFor a more detailed description of JPMorgan Chase s principal involvement with credit-related note and asset swap vehicles, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. VIEs sponsored by third partiesThe Firm enters into transactions with VIEs sponsored by other parties. These include, for example, acting as a derivative counterparty, liquidity provider, investor, underwriter, placement agent, trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm s-length, and individual credit decisions are based on the analysis of the specific VIE, taking into consideration the quality of the underlying assets. Where the Firm does not have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance, or a variable interest that could potentially be significant, the Firm records and reports these positions on its Consolidated balance sheets similarly to the way it would record and report positions in respect of any other third-party transaction.149Consolidated VIE assets and liabilitiesThe following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs consolidated by the Firm as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.(a)Excludes intercompany transactions which were eliminated in consolidation.(b)Includes residential and commercial mortgage securitizations as well as re-securitizations.(c)Includes assets classified as cash, AFS securities, and other assets within the Consolidated balance sheets.(d)The assets of the consolidated VIEs included in the program types above are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The difference between total assets and total liabilities recognized for consolidated VIEs represents the Firm s interest in the consolidated VIEs for each program type.(e)The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item on the Consolidated balance sheets titled,  Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.  The holders of these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. Included in beneficial interests in VIE assets are long-term beneficial interests of $33.2 billion and $35.4 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. The maturities of the long-term beneficial interests as of September 30, 2015, were as follows: $5.0 billion under one year, $23.8 billion between one and five years, and $4.4 billion over five years.(f)Includes liabilities classified as accounts payable and other liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheets.Loan securitizationsThe Firm securitizes (or has securitized) a variety of loans, including residential mortgage, credit card, student and commercial (primarily related to real estate) loans. For a  further description of the Firm s accounting policies regarding securitizations, see Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.150Securitization activityThe following table provides information related to the Firm s securitization activities for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, related to assets held in JPMorgan Chase-sponsored securitization entities that were not consolidated by the Firm, and where sale accounting was achieved based on the accounting rules in effect at the time of the securitization.(a)Excludes re-securitization transactions.(b)For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, $913 million and $2.6 billion, respectively, of proceeds from residential mortgage securitizations were received as securities classified in level 2 and $59 million of proceeds classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, $3.0 billion and $9.0 billion, respectively, of proceeds from commercial mortgage securitizations were received as securities classified in level 2 and $5 million and $43 million, respectively, of proceeds classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, $484 million and $1.1 billion of proceeds from residential mortgage securitizations were received as securities classified in level 2 and zero and $21 million of proceeds classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, $3.1 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, of proceeds from commercial mortgage securitizations were received as securities classified in level 2 and zero and $130 million of proceeds classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, and zero and $280 million of proceeds from commercial mortgage securitization were received as cash. All loans transferred into securitization vehicles during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, were classified as trading assets; changes in fair value were recorded in principal transactions revenue, and there were no significant gains or losses associated with the securitization activity.(c)Includes cash paid by the Firm to reacquire assets from off balance sheet, nonconsolidated entities   for example, loan repurchases due to representation and warranties and servicer clean-up calls.(d)Includes prime, Alt-A, subprime, and option ARMs. Excludes certain loan securitization transactions entered into with Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.(e)Includes commercial and student loan securitizations.Loans and excess MSRs sold to the GSEs, loans in securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines, and other third-party-sponsored securitization entitiesIn addition to the amounts reported in the securitization activity tables above, the Firm, in the normal course of business, sells originated and purchased mortgage loans and certain originated excess MSRs on a nonrecourse basis, predominantly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the  GSEs ). These loans and excess MSRs are sold primarily for the purpose of securitization by the GSEs, who provide certain guarantee provisions (e.g., credit enhancement of the loans). The Firm also sells loans into securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines; these loans are typically insured or guaranteed by another U.S. government agency. The Firm does not consolidate the securitization vehicles underlying any of the transactions described above as it is not the primary beneficiary. For a limited number of loan sales, the Firm is obligated to share a portion of the credit risk associated with the sold loans with the purchaser. See Note 29 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report for additional information about the Firm s loan sales- and securitization-related indemnifications. See Note 16 for additional information about the impact of the Firm s sale of certain excess MSRs. The following table summarizes the activities related to loans sold to the GSEs,  loans in securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines, and other third-party-sponsored securitization entities.(a)Predominantly to the GSEs and in securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines.(b)Predominantly includes securities from the GSEs and Ginnie Mae that are generally sold shortly after receipt.(c)Excludes the value of MSRs retained upon the sale of loans. Gains on loan sales include the value of MSRs.(d)The carrying value of the loans accounted for at fair value approximated the total proceeds received upon loan sale.151Options to repurchase delinquent loansIn addition to the Firm s obligation to repurchase certain loans due to material breaches of representations and warranties as discussed in Note 21, the Firm also has the option to repurchase delinquent loans that it services for Ginnie Mae loan pools, as well as for other U.S. government agencies under certain arrangements. The Firm typically elects to repurchase delinquent loans from Ginnie Mae loan pools as it continues to service them and/or manage the foreclosure process in accordance with the applicable requirements, and such loans continue to be insured or guaranteed. When the Firm s repurchase option becomes exercisable, such loans must be reported on the Consolidated balance sheets as a loan with a corresponding liability. As of September 30, 2015, and December 31,  2014, the Firm had recorded on its Consolidated balance sheets $11.3 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, of loans that either had been repurchased or for which the Firm had an option to repurchase. Predominantly all of these amounts relate to loans that have been repurchased from Ginnie Mae loan pools. Additionally, real estate owned resulting from voluntary repurchases of loans was $327 million and $464 million as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. Substantially all of these loans and real estate owned are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. For additional information, refer to Note 13 of this Form 10-Q and Note 14 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Loan delinquencies and liquidation lossesThe table below includes information about components of nonconsolidated securitized financial assets, in which the Firm has continuing involvement, and delinquencies as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively; and liquidation losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(a)Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were $239.5 billion and $254.3 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The $184.4 billion and $198.4 billion, respectively, of loans securitized at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, excluded: $53.3 billion and $52.2 billion, respectively, of securitized loans in which the Firm has no continuing involvement, and $1.8 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively, of loan securitizations consolidated on the Firm s Consolidated balance sheets at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.(b)Includes securitized loans that were previously recorded at fair value and classified as trading assets.152Note 16   Goodwill and other intangible assetsFor a discussion of the accounting policies related to goodwill and other intangible assets, see Note 17 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.The following table presents goodwill attributed to the business segments.The following table presents changes in the carrying amount of goodwill.(a)Includes foreign currency translation adjustments and other tax-related adjustments, and, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, goodwill impairment associated with the Firm s Private Equity business of $68 million.(b)Represents Private Equity goodwill which was disposed of as part of the Private Equity sale completed in January 2015. Impairment testingFor further description of the Firm s goodwill impairment testing process, including the primary method used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units, and the assumptions used in the goodwill impairment test, see Impairment testing on pages 271 272 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Goodwill was not impaired at September 30, 2015, or December 31, 2014, nor was goodwill written off due to impairment during the nine months ended September 30, 2015.However, the Firm s Mortgage Banking business in CCB remains at an elevated risk of goodwill impairment due to its exposure to U.S. economic conditions, such as increases in primary mortgage interest rates, lower mortgage origination volume, or from deterioration in economic conditions, including decreases in home prices that result in increased credit losses.Declines in business performance, increases in equity capital requirements, or increases in the estimated cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm s reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.153Mortgage servicing rightsMSRs represent the fair value of expected future cash flows for performing servicing activities for others. The fair value considers estimated future servicing fees and ancillary revenue, offset by estimated costs to service the loans, and generally declines over time as net servicing cash flows are received, effectively amortizing the MSR asset against contractual servicing and ancillary fee income. MSRs are either purchased from third parties or recognized upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans if servicing is retained. For a further description of the MSR asset, interest rate risk management, and the valuation of MSRs, see Note 17 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report and Note 3 of this Form 10-Q.The following table summarizes MSR activity for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. As of or for the three months ended September 30, As of or for the nine months ended September 30, (in millions, except where otherwise noted)2015 2014 2015 2014 Fair value at beginning of period$7,571 $8,347 $7,436 $9,614 MSR activity:        Originations of MSRs147 148 447 518 Purchase of MSRs(4) 3 435 9 Disposition of MSRs(a)  11 (375) (175) Net additions143 162 507 352          Changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows(b)(233) (216) (677) (702)          Changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions:        Changes due to market interest rates and other(c)(677) (101) (338) (832) Changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions:        Projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service)(76) 44 (103) 33 Discount rates    (10) (459)(g) Prepayment model changes and other(d)(12)   (99) 230 Total changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions(88) 44 (212) (196) Total changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions(b)(765) (57) (550) (1,028) Fair value at September 30,(e)$6,716 $8,236 $6,716 $8,236          Change in unrealized gains/(losses) included in income related to MSRs held at September 30,$(765) $(57) $(550) $(1,028) Contractual service fees, late fees and other ancillary fees included in income$634 $701 $1,945 $2,189 Third-party mortgage loans serviced at September 30, (in billions)$706 $771 $706 $771 Net servicer advances at September 30, (in billions)(f)$6.6 $8.6 $6.6 $8.6 (a)For the nine months ended September 30, 2014, predominantly represents excess MSRs transferred to agency-sponsored trusts in exchange for stripped mortgage-backed securities ( SMBS ). In each transaction, a portion of the SMBS was acquired by third parties at the transaction date; the Firm acquired and has retained the remaining balance of those SMBS as trading securities. Also includes sales of MSRs for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.(b)Included changes related to commercial real estate of $(1) million and $(1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $(3) million and $(5) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(c)Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future prepayments due to changes in market interest rates, and the difference between actual and expected prepayments.(d)Represents changes in prepayments other than those attributable to changes in market interest rates.(e)Included $7 million and $13 million related to commercial real estate at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(f)Represents amounts the Firm pays as the servicer (e.g., scheduled principal and interest, taxes and insurance), which will generally be reimbursed within a short period of time after the advance from future cash flows from the trust or the underlying loans. The Firm s credit risk associated with these servicer advances is minimal because reimbursement of the advances is typically senior to all cash payments to investors. In addition, the Firm maintains the right to stop payment to investors if the collateral is insufficient to cover the advance. However, certain of these servicer advances may not be recoverable if they were not made in accordance with applicable rules and agreements.(g)For the nine months ended September 30, 2014, the decrease was primarily related to higher capital allocated to the Mortgage Servicing business, which, in turn, resulted in an increase in the option adjusted spread ( OAS ). The resulting OAS assumption continues to be consistent with capital and return requirements that the Firm believes a market participant would consider, taking into account factors such as the current operating risk environment and regulatory and economic capital requirements.154The following table presents the components of mortgage fees and related income (including the impact of MSR risk management activities) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.(a)Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future prepayments due to changes in market interest rates, and the difference between actual and expected prepayments.(b)Represents the aggregate impact of changes in model inputs and assumptions such as projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service), discount rates and changes in prepayments other than those attributable to changes in market interest rates (e.g., changes in prepayments due to changes in home prices).The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of the Firm s MSRs at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate adverse changes in those assumptions, as defined below. (in millions, except rates)Sep 30, 2015 Dec 31, 2014Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption ( CPR )10.19% 9.80%Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change$(297) $(337)Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change(571) (652)Weighted-average option adjusted spread9.09% 9.43%Impact on fair value of 100 basis points adverse change$(265) $(300)Impact on fair value of 200 basis points adverse change(510) (578)CPR: Constant prepayment rate. The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily extrapolated, because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value are often highly interrelated and may not be linear. In this table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which would either magnify or counteract the impact of the initial change. Other intangible assetsFor information regarding other intangible assets, see Note 17 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.155Note 17   DepositsFor further discussion on deposits, see Note 19 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing deposits were as follows. (a)Includes Negotiable Order of Withdrawal ( NOW ) accounts, and certain trust accounts.(b)Includes Money Market Deposit Accounts ( MMDAs ).(c)Includes structured notes classified as deposits for which the fair value option has been elected. For further discussion, see Note 4 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. Note 18   Earnings per shareFor a discussion of the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ), see Note 24 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.(a)Excluded from the computation of diluted EPS (due to the antidilutive effect) were options issued under employee benefit plans. The aggregate number of shares issuable upon the exercise of such options was not material for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015; and 1 million for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014.(b)Participating securities were included in the calculation of diluted EPS using the two-class method, as this computation was more dilutive than the calculation using the treasury stock method.156Note 19   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)AOCI includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities, foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives), cash flow hedging activities, and net loss and prior service costs/(credit) related to the Firm s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. As of or for the three months ended September 30, 2015Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities(a) Translation adjustments, net of hedges Cash flow hedges Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)(in millions)Balance at July 1, 2015 $3,443   $(154)   $62   $(2,249)   $1,102 Net change (291)   (5)   (106)   51   (351) Balance at September 30, 2015 $3,152   $(159)   $(44)   $(2,198)   $751                     As of or for the three months ended September 30, 2014Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities(a) Translation adjustments, net of hedges Cash flow hedges Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)(in millions)Balance at July 1, 2014 $4,867   $(126)   $(12)   $(1,291)   $3,438 Net change (141)   3   (58)   24   (172) Balance at September 30, 2014 $4,726   $(123)   $(70)   $(1,267)   $3,266 As of or for the nine months endedSeptember 30, 2015Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities(a) Translation adjustments, net of hedges Cash flow hedges Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)(in millions)Balance at January 1, 2015 $4,773   $(147)   $(95)   $(2,342)   $2,189 Net change (1,621)   (12)   51   144   (1,438) Balance at September 30, 2015 $3,152   $(159)   $(44)   $(2,198)   $751                     As of or for the nine months endedSeptember 30, 2014Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities(a) Translation adjustments, net of hedges Cash flow hedges Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)(in millions)Balance at January 1, 2014 $2,798   $(136)   $(139)   $(1,324)   $1,199 Net change 1,928   13   69   57   2,067 Balance at September 30, 2014 $4,726   $(123)   $(70)   $(1,267)   $3,266 (a)Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of securities accounted for as AFS; including, as of the date of transfer during the first quarter of 2014, $9 million of net unrealized losses related to AFS securities that were transferred to HTM. Subsequent to transfer, includes any net unamortized unrealized gains and losses related to the transferred securities.157The following table presents the pretax and after-tax changes in the components of other comprehensive income/(loss). (a)The pretax amount is reported in securities gains in the Consolidated statements of income.(b)Reclassifications of pretax realized gains/(losses) on translation adjustments and related hedges are reported in other income/expense in the Consolidated statements of income. The amounts were not material for the periods presented.(c)The pretax amounts are predominantly recorded in net interest income in the Consolidated statements of income. (d)The pretax amount is reported in compensation expense in the Consolidated statements of income.(e)In the first quarter of 2015, the Firm reclassified approximately $150 million of net losses from AOCI to other income because the Firm determined that it is probable that the forecasted interest payment cash flows will not occur. For additional information, see Note 5.158Note 20   Regulatory capitalThe Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm s national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.Under the Basel Committee's most recent capital framework ( Basel III ) for large and internationally active U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm and its insured depository institution ( IDI ) subsidiaries, revised, among other things, the definition of capital and introduced a new common equity Tier 1 capital ( CET1 capital ) requirement; presents two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets ( RWA ), a general (Standardized) approach, which replaced Basel I RWA effective January 1, 2015, ( Basel III Standardized ) and an advanced approach, which replaced Basel II RWA ( Basel III Advanced ); and sets out minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards. Certain of the requirements of Basel III are subject to phase-in periods that began on January 1, 2014 and continue through the end of 2018 ( Basel III Transitional ).There are three categories of risk-based capital under the Basel III Transitional rules: CET1 capital, as well as Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. CET1 capital predominantly includes common stockholders  equity (including capital for AOCI related to debt and equity securities classified as AFS as well as for defined benefit pension and OPEB plans), less certain deductions for goodwill, MSRs and deferred tax assets that arise from net operating loss ( NOL ) and tax credit carryforwards. Tier 1 capital predominantly consists of CET1 capital as well as perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital includes long-term debt qualifying as Tier 2 and qualifying allowance for credit losses. Total capital is Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital.Beginning July 21, 2015, the Volcker Rule provisions regarding the prohibitions against proprietary trading and holding ownership interests in or sponsoring  covered funds  became effective. The deduction from Basel III Tier 1 capital associated with the permissible holdings of covered funds acquired after December 31, 2013 was not material as of September 30, 2015. The following tables present the regulatory capital, assets and risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant national bank subsidiaries under both Basel III Standardized Transitional and Basel III Advanced Transitional. 159(a)At September 30, 2015, trust preferred securities included in Basel III Tier 1 capital were $999 million and $420 million for JPMorgan Chase and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., respectively. At September 30, 2015, Chase Bank USA, N.A. had no trust preferred securities.(b)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the Tier 1 leverage ratio, includes total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are subject to deduction from Tier 1 Capital predominantly comprising disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets.(c)For each risk-based capital ratio, the capital adequacy of the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries are evaluated against the Basel III approach, Standardized or Advanced, resulting in the lower ratio.(d)As the Tier 1 leverage ratio is not a risk-based measure of capital, the ratios presented in the table reflect the same calculation.(e)Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan Chase s national banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions; whereas the respective amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions.(f)Effective January 1, 2015, the Basel III definition of the Standardized RWA became effective. Prior measures of Basel III Standardized RWA were calculated under Basel I and 2.5 rules. Note:Rating agencies allow measures of capital to be adjusted upward for deferred tax liabilities, which have resulted from both nontaxable business combinations and from tax-deductible goodwill. The Firm had deferred tax liabilities resulting from nontaxable business combinations totaling $111 million and $130 million at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively; and deferred tax liabilities resulting from tax-deductible goodwill of $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve, JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain minimum ratios of CET1 (beginning January 1, 2015), Tier 1 and Total capital to risk-weighted assets, as well as a minimum leverage ratio (which is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly average assets). Failure to meet these minimum requirements could cause the Federal Reserve to take action. National bank subsidiaries also are subject to these capital requirements by their respective primary regulators. The following table presents the minimum ratios to which the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries are subject as of September 30, 2015. Minimum capital ratios(a) Well-capitalized ratios(b) Capital ratios    CET14.5% 6.5% Tier 16.0 8.0 Total8.0 10.0(c) Tier 1 leverage4.0 5.0 (a)As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC and to which the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries are subject.(b)Represents requirements for bank subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the FDIC Improvement Act. There is no Tier 1 leverage component in the definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company.(c)Represents requirements for bank holding companies pursuant to regulations issued by the Federal Reserve.As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, JPMorgan Chase and all of its banking subsidiaries were well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to which each was subject. 160Note 21   Off balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees, and other commitmentsJPMorgan Chase provides lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk to the Firm should the counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm s view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-related commitments and guarantees, and the Firm s related accounting policies, see Note 29 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. To provide for probable credit losses inherent in wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments, an allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained. See Note 14 for further information regarding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments. The following table summarizes the contractual amounts and carrying values of off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The amounts in the table below for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit for these products will be utilized at the same time. The Firm can reduce or cancel credit card lines of credit by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. In addition, the Firm typically closes credit card lines when the borrower is 60 days or more past due. The Firm may reduce or close home equity lines of credit when there are significant decreases in the value of the underlying property, or when there has been a demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the borrower.161(a)Includes certain commitments to purchase loans from correspondents.(b)Predominantly all consumer lending-related commitments are in the U.S.(c)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, reflects the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $321 million and $243 million, respectively, for other unfunded commitments to extend credit; $11.7 billion and $13.0 billion, respectively, for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees; and $409 million and $469 million, respectively, for other letters of credit. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve these commitments are shown gross of risk participations.(d)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included credit enhancements and bond and commercial paper liquidity commitments to U.S. states and municipalities, hospitals and other non-profit entities of $13.0 billion and $14.8 billion, respectively, within other unfunded commitments to extend credit; and $10.0 billion and $13.3 billion, respectively, within standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees. Other unfunded commitments to extend credit also include liquidity facilities to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs; for further information, see Note 15.(e)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included commitments that could be utilized for standby letters of credit commitments of $45.1 billion and $45.6 billion, respectively.(f)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the U.S. portion of the contractual amount of total wholesale lending-related commitments was 77% and 73%, respectively. (g)Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm no longer includes within its disclosure of wholesale lending-related commitments the unused amount of advised uncommitted lines of credit as it is within the Firm s discretion whether or not to make a loan under these lines, and the Firm s approval is generally required prior to funding. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.(h)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $190.3 billion and $177.1 billion, respectively. Securities lending collateral comprises primarily cash and securities issued by governments that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ( OECD ) and U.S. government agencies.(i)At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included unfunded commitments of $57 million and $147 million, respectively, to third-party private equity funds; and $1.4 billion and $961 million, at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, to other equity investments. These commitments included $53 million and $150 million, respectively, related to investments that are generally fair valued at net asset value as discussed in Note 3. In addition, at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, included letters of credit hedged by derivative transactions and managed on a market risk basis of $4.6 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively.(j)For lending-related products, the carrying value represents the allowance for lending-related commitments and the guarantee liability; for derivative-related products, the carrying value represents the fair value.162Other unfunded commitments to extend creditOther unfunded commitments to extend credit generally comprise commitments for working capital and general corporate purposes, extensions of credit to support commercial paper facilities and bond financings in the event that those obligations cannot be remarketed to new investors, as well as committed liquidity facilities to clearing organizations. Also included in other unfunded commitments to extend credit are commitments to noninvestment-grade counterparties in connection with leveraged finance activities, which were $30.3 billion and $23.4 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively.The Firm acts as a settlement and custody bank in the U.S. tri-party repurchase transaction market. In its role as settlement and custody bank, the Firm is exposed to the intra-day credit risk of its cash borrower clients, usually broker-dealers. This exposure arises under secured clearance advance facilities that the Firm extends to its clients (i.e. cash borrowers); these facilities contractually limit the Firm s intra-day credit risk to the facility amount and must be repaid by the end of the day. As of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the secured clearance advance facility maximum outstanding commitment amount was $10.9 billion and $12.6 billion, respectively.  GuaranteesThe Firm considers the following off balance sheet lending-related arrangements to be guarantees under U.S. GAAP: standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnification agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements and certain derivative contracts. For a further discussion of the off balance sheet lending-related arrangements the Firm considers to be guarantees, and the related accounting policies, see Note 29 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The recorded amounts of the liabilities related to guarantees and indemnifications at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, excluding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments, are discussed below. Standby letters of credit and other financial guaranteesStandby letters of credit ( SBLC ) and other financial guarantees are conditional lending commitments issued by the Firm to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party under certain arrangements, such as commercial paper facilities, bond financings, acquisition financings, trade and similar transactions. The carrying values of standby and other letters of credit were $775 million and $789 million at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, which were classified in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets; these carrying values included $335 million and $235 million, respectively, for the allowance for lending-related commitments, and $440 million and $554 million, respectively, for the guarantee liability and corresponding asset. The following table summarizes the types of facilities under which standby letters of credit and other letters of credit arrangements are outstanding by the ratings profiles of the Firm s customers, as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014.Standby letters of credit, other financial guarantees and other letters of credit(a)The ratings scale is based on the Firm s internal ratings which generally correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody s.163Derivatives qualifying as guaranteesIn addition to the contracts described above, the Firm transacts certain derivative contracts that have the characteristics of a guarantee under U.S. GAAP. For further information on these derivatives, see Note 29 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The total notional value of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was $52.2 billion and $53.6 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. The notional amount generally represents the Firm s maximum exposure to derivatives qualifying as guarantees. However, exposure to certain stable value contracts is contractually limited to a substantially lower percentage of the notional amount; the notional amount on these stable value contracts was $28.2 billion and $27.5 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, and the maximum exposure to loss was $3.0 billion and $2.9 billion at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The fair values of the contracts reflect the probability of whether the Firm will be required to perform under the contract. The fair value related to derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees were derivative payables of $279 million and $102 million and derivative receivables of $21 million and $22 million at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. The Firm reduces exposures to these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions, or by entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to the derivative guarantees.In addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a guarantee, the Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit protection in the credit derivatives market. For a further discussion of credit derivatives, see Note 5.Loan sales- and securitization-related indemnificationsMortgage repurchase liabilityIn connection with the Firm s mortgage loan sale and securitization activities with the GSEs, as described in Note 15 of this Form 10-Q, and Note 16 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report, the Firm has made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. The Firm has been, and may be, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the GSEs (e.g., with  make-whole  payments to reimburse the GSEs for their realized losses on liquidated loans). To the extent that repurchase demands that are received relate to loans that the Firm purchased from third parties that remain viable, the Firm typically will have the right to seek a recovery of related repurchase losses from the third party. Generally, the maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be required to make for breaches of these representations and warranties would be equal to the unpaid principal balance of such loans that are deemed to have defects that were sold to purchasers (including securitization-related SPEs) plus, in certain circumstances, accrued interest on such loans and certain expense.For additional information, see Note 29 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. The following table summarizes the change in the mortgage repurchase liability for each of the periods presented.(a)Presented net of third-party recoveries and include principal losses and accrued interest on repurchased loans,  make-whole  settlements, settlements with claimants, and certain related expense. Make-whole settlements were $2 million and $5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $6 million and $8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.(b)Included a provision related to new loan sales of $1 million for each of the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, and $3 million for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.Private label securitizationsThe liability related to repurchase demands associated with private label securitizations is separately evaluated by the Firm in establishing its litigation reserves.For additional information regarding litigation, see Note 23 of this Form 10-Q and Note 31 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Loans sold with recourseThe Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain commercial lending products on both a recourse and nonrecourse basis. In nonrecourse servicing, the principal credit risk to the Firm is the cost of temporary servicing advances of funds (i.e., normal servicing advances). In recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk with the owner of the mortgage loans, such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. Losses on recourse servicing predominantly occur when foreclosure sales proceeds of the property underlying a defaulted loan are less than the sum of the outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest on the loan and the cost of holding and disposing of the underlying property. The Firm s securitizations are predominantly nonrecourse, thereby effectively transferring the risk of future credit losses to the purchaser of the mortgage-backed securities issued by the trust. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the unpaid principal balance of loans sold with recourse totaled $4.7 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively. The carrying value of the related liability that the Firm has recorded, which is representative of the Firm s view of the likelihood it will have to perform under its recourse obligations, was $89 million and $102 million at September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. 164Note 22   Pledged assets and collateralFor a discussion of the Firm s pledged assets and collateral, see Note 30 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Pledged assetsThe Firm may pledge financial assets that it owns to maintain potential borrowing capacity with central banks and for other purposes, including to secure borrowings and public deposits, and to collateralize repurchase and other securities financing agreements. Certain of these pledged assets may be sold or repledged by the secured parties and are identified as financial assets owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheets. At September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm had pledged assets of $364.7 billion and $324.5 billion, respectively, at Federal Reserve Banks and Federal Home Loan Banks ( FHLBs ). In addition, as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm had pledged $51.8 billion and $60.1 billion, respectively, of financial assets that may not be sold or repledged by the secured parties. Total assets pledged do not include assets of consolidated VIEs; these assets are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. See Note 15 for additional information on assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs. For additional information on the Firm s securities financing activities, see Note 12. For additional information on the Firm s long-term debt, see Note 21 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.CollateralAt September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Firm had accepted financial assets as collateral that it could sell or repledge, deliver or otherwise use with a fair value of $781.8 billion and $761.7 billion, respectively. This collateral was generally obtained under resale agreements, securities borrowing agreements, customer margin loans and derivative agreements. Of the collateral received, $636.7 billion and $596.8 billion, respectively, were sold or repledged, generally as collateral under repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements or to cover short sales and to collateralize deposits and derivative agreements. Note 23   LitigationContingenciesAs of September 30, 2015, the Firm and its subsidiaries are defendants or putative defendants in numerous legal proceedings, including private, civil litigations and regulatory/government investigations. The litigations range from individual actions involving a single plaintiff to class action lawsuits with potentially millions of class members. Investigations involve both formal and informal proceedings, by both governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations. These legal proceedings are at varying stages of adjudication, arbitration or investigation, and involve each of the Firm s lines of business and geographies and a wide variety of claims (including common law tort and contract claims and statutory antitrust, securities and consumer protection claims), some of which present novel legal theories. The Firm believes the estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses, in excess of reserves established, for its legal proceedings is from $0 to approximately $5.0 billion at September 30, 2015. This estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible losses is based upon currently available information for those proceedings in which the Firm believes that an estimate of reasonably possible loss can be made. For certain matters, the Firm does not believe that such an estimate can be made. Moreover, the Firm s estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses involves significant judgment, given the number, variety and varying stages of the proceedings (including the fact that many are in preliminary stages), the existence in many such proceedings of multiple defendants (including the Firm) whose share of liability has yet to be determined, the numerous yet-unresolved issues in many of the proceedings (including issues regarding class certification and the scope of many of the claims) and the attendant uncertainty of the various potential outcomes of such proceedings, particularly proceedings that could result from government investigations. Accordingly, the Firm s estimate will change from time to time, and actual losses may vary. Set forth below are descriptions of the Firm s material legal proceedings.Auto Dealer Regulatory Matter. The U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ) is investigating potential statistical disparities in markups charged to borrowers of different races and ethnicities by automobile dealers on loans originated by those dealers and purchased by the Firm.CIO Litigation. The Firm has been sued in a consolidated shareholder class action, a consolidated putative class action brought under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) and seven shareholder derivative actions brought in Delaware state court and in New York federal and state courts relating to 2012 losses in the synthetic credit portfolio managed by the Firm s Chief Investment Office ( CIO ). Six of the shareholder derivative actions have been dismissed, and plaintiffs in four of those actions have appealed the dismissals. One appeal initially 165was affirmed, but that opinion was subsequently withdrawn and the appeal remains pending.Credit Default Swaps Investigations and Litigation. In July 2013, the European Commission (the  EC ) filed a Statement of Objections against the Firm (including various subsidiaries) and other industry members in connection with its ongoing investigation into the credit default swaps ( CDS ) marketplace. The EC asserts that between 2006 and 2009, a number of investment banks acted collectively through the International Swaps and Derivatives Association ( ISDA ) and Markit Group Limited ( Markit ) to foreclose exchanges from the potential market for exchange-traded credit derivatives. The Firm submitted a response to the Statement of Objections in January 2014, and the EC held a hearing in May 2014. DOJ also has an ongoing investigation into the CDS marketplace, which was initiated in July 2009. Separately, the Firm and other defendants have entered separate agreements to settle a consolidated putative class action filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of purchasers and sellers of CDS. The complaint in this action had alleged that the defendant investment banks and dealers, including the Firm, as well as Markit and/or ISDA, collectively prevented new entrants into the market for exchange-traded CDS products. These settlements are subject to Court approval.Custody Assets Investigation. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ) is conducting an investigation concerning compliance by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited with the FCA s rules regarding the provision of custody services relating to the administration of client assets. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited are responding to and cooperating with the investigation. Foreign Exchange Investigations and Litigation. The Firm previously reported settlements with certain government authorities relating to its foreign exchange ( FX ) sales and trading activities and controls related to those activities, including settlements in May 2015 with DOJ and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ). Under the DOJ settlement, the Firm agreed to plead guilty to a single violation of federal antitrust law and to pay a fine of $550 million. Under the Federal Reserve settlement, the Firm agreed to the entry of a Consent Order, to pay a fine of $342 million, and to take various remedial actions. FX-related investigations and inquiries by other non-U.S. government authorities, including competition authorities, remain ongoing, and the Firm is cooperating with those matters. Since November 2013, class actions have been filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against foreign exchange dealers, including the Firm, principally for alleged violations of federal antitrust laws based on an alleged conspiracy to manipulate foreign exchange rates reported on the WM/Reuters service. In March 2014, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended U.S. class action complaint; two other class actions were brought by non-U.S.-based plaintiffs. The Court denied defendants   motion to dismiss the U.S. class action and granted the motion to dismiss the two non-U.S. class actions. In January 2015, the Firm entered into a settlement agreement in the U.S. class action. Following this settlement, a number of additional class actions were filed seeking damages for persons who transacted FX futures and options on futures (the  exchanged-based actions ), consumers who purchased foreign currencies at allegedly inflated rates, and participants or beneficiaries of qualified ERISA plans. In July 2015, the plaintiffs in the U.S. class action filed an amended complaint, adding new claims as well as new parties. The Court also consolidated the exchange-based actions into the U.S. class action. The Firm has entered into a revised settlement agreement to resolve the consolidated U.S. class action, and that agreement is subject to Court approval.In September 2015, two class actions were filed in Canada against the Firm as well as a number of other FX dealers, principally for alleged violations of the Canadian Competition Act based on an alleged conspiracy to fix the prices of currency purchased in the FX market. The first action was filed in the province of Ontario, and seeks to represent all persons in Canada who transacted any FX instrument. The second action seeks to represent only those persons in Quebec who engaged in FX transactions.General Motors Litigation. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. participated in, and was the Administrative Agent on behalf of a syndicate of lenders on, a $1.5 billion syndicated Term Loan facility ( Term Loan ) for General Motors Corporation ( GM ). In July 2009, in connection with the GM bankruptcy proceedings, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Motors Liquidation Company ( Creditors Committee ) filed a lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its individual capacity and as Administrative Agent for other lenders on the Term Loan, seeking to hold the underlying lien invalid based on the filing of a UCC-3 termination statement relating to the Term Loan. In March 2013, the Bankruptcy Court granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. s motion for summary judgment and dismissed the Creditors Committee s complaint on the grounds that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. did not authorize the filing of the UCC-3 termination statement at issue. The Creditors Committee appealed the Bankruptcy Court s dismissal of its claim to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In January 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the Bankruptcy Court s dismissal of the Creditors Committee s claim and remanded the case to the Bankruptcy Court with instructions to enter partial summary judgment for the Creditors Committee as to the termination statement. Continued proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court are anticipated with respect to, among other things, additional defenses asserted by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the value of additional collateral on the Term Loan, which was not the subject of the termination statement. In addition, two purported class actions have been filed by certain Term Loan lenders in federal court in New York against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, seeking indemnification and asserting claims for breach of 166contract, gross negligence and fraudulent concealment against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and claims for malpractice, professional negligence and negligent misrepresentation against Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP. In October 2015, the lenders who brought these class actions voluntarily dismissed them without prejudice. Interchange Litigation. A group of merchants and retail associations filed a series of class action complaints alleging that Visa and MasterCard, as well as certain banks, conspired to set the price of credit and debit card interchange fees, enacted respective rules in violation of antitrust laws, and engaged in tying/bundling and exclusive dealing. The parties have entered into an agreement to settle the cases for a cash payment of $6.1 billion to the class plaintiffs (of which the Firm s share is approximately 20%) and an amount equal to ten basis points of credit card interchange for a period of eight months to be measured from a date within 60 days of the end of the opt-out period. The agreement also provides for modifications to each credit card network s rules, including those that prohibit surcharging credit card transactions. In December 2013, the Court issued a decision granting final approval of the settlement. A number of merchants appealed, and oral argument was held in September 2015. Certain merchants and trade associations have also filed a motion with the District Court seeking to set aside the approval of the class settlement on the basis of alleged improper communications between one of MasterCard s former outside counsel and one of plaintiffs  outside counsel. That motion remains pending. Certain merchants that opted out of the class settlement have filed actions against Visa and MasterCard, as well as against the Firm and other banks. Defendants  motion to dismiss those actions was denied in July 2014. Investment Management Litigation. The Firm is defending two pending cases that allege that investment portfolios managed by J.P. Morgan Investment Management ( JPMIM ) were inappropriately invested in securities backed by residential real estate collateral. Plaintiffs Assured Guaranty (U.K.) and Ambac Assurance UK Limited claim that JPMIM is liable for losses of more than $1 billion in market value of these securities. Discovery is proceeding. Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy Proceedings. In May 2010, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ( LBHI ) and its Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors (the  Committee ) filed a complaint (and later an amended complaint) against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York that asserts both federal bankruptcy law and state common law claims, and seeks, among other relief, to recover $7.9 billion in collateral (after deducting $700 million of returned collateral) that was transferred to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in the weeks preceding LBHI s bankruptcy. The amended complaint also seeks unspecified damages on the grounds that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. s collateral requests hastened LBHI s bankruptcy. The Court dismissed certain of the claims in the amended complaint that sought  to void the allegedly constructively fraudulent and preferential transfers made to the Firm during September 2008, but did not dismiss the other claims, including claims for duress and fraud. The Firm has filed counterclaims against LBHI alleging that LBHI fraudulently induced the Firm to make large extensions of credit against inappropriate collateral in connection with the Firm s role as the clearing bank for Lehman Brothers Inc. ( LBI ), LBHI s broker-dealer subsidiary. These extensions of credit left the Firm with more than $25 billion in claims against the estate of LBI. In September 2015, the District Court, to which the case had been transferred from the Bankruptcy Court, granted summary judgment in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. on most of the remaining claims in the action, including the claims for duress and fraud. The District Court denied the plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment on certain of their claims and for dismissal of the Firm s counterclaims. The remaining claims challenge the propriety of the Firm s post-petition payment, from collateral posted by LBHI, of approximately $1.9 billion of derivatives, repo and securities lending claims.In the Bankruptcy Court proceedings, LBHI and several of its subsidiaries that had been Chapter 11 debtors have filed a separate complaint and objection to derivatives claims asserted by the Firm alleging that the amount of the derivatives claims had been overstated and challenging certain set-offs taken by JPMorgan Chase entities to recover on the claims. The Firm responded to this separate complaint and objection in February 2013. LBHI and the Committee have also filed an objection to the claims asserted by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. against LBHI with respect to clearing advances made to LBI, principally on the grounds that the Firm had not conducted the sale of the securities collateral held for its claims in a commercially reasonable manner. Discovery regarding both objections is ongoing. In January 2015, LBHI filed additional objections relating to a variety of claims that the Firm had filed in the Bankruptcy Court proceedings. The bankruptcy claims and other claims of the Firm against Lehman entities have been paid in full, subject to potential adjustment depending on the outcome of the objections filed by LBHI and the Committee. LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rate Investigations and Litigation. JPMorgan Chase has received subpoenas and requests for documents and, in some cases, interviews, from federal and state agencies and entities, including DOJ, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and various state attorneys general, as well as the EC, the FCA, the Canadian Competition Bureau, the Swiss Competition Commission and other regulatory authorities and banking associations around the world relating primarily to the process by which interest rates were submitted to the British Bankers Association ( BBA ) in connection with the setting of the BBA s London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) for various currencies, principally in 2007 and 2008. Some of the inquiries also relate to similar processes by which information on rates is submitted to the European 167Banking Federation ( EBF ) in connection with the setting of the EBF s Euro Interbank Offered Rates ( EURIBOR ) and to the Japanese Bankers  Association for the setting of Tokyo Interbank Offered Rates ( TIBOR ), as well as processes for the setting of U.S. dollar ISDAFIX rates and other reference rates in various parts of the world during similar time periods. The Firm is responding to and continuing to cooperate with these inquiries. As previously reported, the Firm has resolved EC inquiries relating to Yen LIBOR and Swiss Franc LIBOR. In May 2014, the EC issued a Statement of Objections outlining its case against the Firm (and others) as to EURIBOR, to which the Firm has filed a response and made oral representations. Other inquiries have been discontinued without any action against JPMorgan Chase, including by the FCA and the Canadian Competition Bureau. In addition, the Firm has been named as a defendant along with other banks in a series of individual and class actions filed in various United States District Courts, in which plaintiffs make varying allegations that in various periods, starting in 2000 or later, defendants either individually or collectively manipulated the U.S. dollar LIBOR, Yen LIBOR, Swiss franc LIBOR, Euroyen TIBOR and/or EURIBOR rates by submitting rates that were artificially low or high. Plaintiffs allege that they transacted in loans, derivatives or other financial instruments whose values are affected by changes in U.S. dollar LIBOR, Yen LIBOR, Swiss franc LIBOR, Euroyen TIBOR or EURIBOR and assert a variety of claims including antitrust claims seeking treble damages. The U.S. dollar LIBOR-related putative class actions and most U.S. dollar LIBOR-related individual actions were consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York ( Multi-District Litigation ). In March 2013, the Court granted in part and denied in part the defendants  motions to dismiss the claims in the three lead putative class actions, dismissing with prejudice the antitrust claims, and permitting certain claims under the Commodity Exchange Act and common law. In September 2013, class plaintiffs in two of the three lead putative class actions filed amended complaints, which defendants moved to dismiss. In June 2014, the Court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motions to dismiss, further limiting the subset of Commodity Exchange Act and common law claims that may proceed. Plaintiffs in the third putative class action appealed the dismissal of the antitrust claims, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction. In January 2015, the United States Supreme Court reversed the decision of the Court of Appeals, holding that plaintiffs have the jurisdictional right to appeal, and remanded the case to the Court of Appeals for further proceedings. Defendants also moved to dismiss certain individual actions in the Multi-District Litigation. In August 2015, the Court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motions, dismissing various claims, but allowing certain Commodity Exchange Act and common law claims to proceed. Motions to dismiss  are pending in three additional putative class actions. Several other individual and class actions remain stayed. The Firm is one of the defendants in a putative class action alleging manipulation of Euroyen TIBOR and Yen LIBOR which was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of plaintiffs who purchased or sold exchange-traded Euroyen futures and options contracts. In March 2014, the Court granted in part and denied in part the defendants  motions to dismiss, including dismissal of plaintiff s antitrust and unjust enrichment claims. Discovery is proceeding in this action. The Firm is also named as one of the defendants in a second putative class action filed on behalf of plaintiffs who transacted in financial instruments allegedly affected by Yen LIBOR or Euroyen TIBOR. The Firm is one of the defendants in a putative class action filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York relating to the interest rate benchmark EURIBOR. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint in August 2015, which defendants have moved to dismiss. The Firm is also a defendant in a putative class action filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York relating to the interest rate benchmark Swiss franc LIBOR. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss this action. The Firm is one of the defendants in a number of putative class actions alleging that defendant banks and ICAP conspired to manipulate the U.S. dollar ISDAFIX rates. Plaintiffs primarily assert claims under the federal antitrust laws and Commodities Exchange Act. In February 2015, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended class action complaint, which defendants have moved to dismiss. Madoff Litigation. Various subsidiaries of the Firm, including J.P. Morgan Securities plc, have been named as defendants in lawsuits filed in Bankruptcy Court in New York arising out of the liquidation proceedings of Fairfield Sentry Limited and Fairfield Sigma Limited, so-called Madoff feeder funds. These actions seek to recover payments made by the funds to defendants totaling approximately $155 million. All but two of these actions have been dismissed. In addition, a putative class action was brought by investors in certain feeder funds against JPMorgan Chase in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, as was a motion by separate potential class plaintiffs to add claims against the Firm and certain subsidiaries to an already pending putative class action in the same court. The allegations in these complaints largely track those previously raised by the court-appointed trustee for Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC. The District Court dismissed these complaints and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the District Court s decision. The United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for a writ of certiorari in March 2015. Plaintiffs subsequently served a motion in the Court of Appeals seeking to have the Court reconsider its prior decision in light of another recent appellate decision. That motion remains pending. 168The Firm is a defendant in five other Madoff-related individual investor actions pending in New York state court. The allegations in all of these actions are essentially identical, and involve claims against the Firm for, among other things, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, conversion and unjust enrichment. In August 2014, the Court dismissed all claims against the Firm. Plaintiffs  appeal of that decision is pending. A putative class action has been filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey by investors who were net winners (i.e., Madoff customers who had taken more money out of their accounts than had been invested) in Madoff s Ponzi scheme and were not included in the previous class action settlement. These plaintiffs allege violations of the federal securities law, federal and state racketeering statutes and multiple common law and statutory claims including breach of trust, aiding and abetting embezzlement, unjust enrichment, conversion and commercial bad faith. A similar action has been filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, although it is not styled as a class action, and includes a claim pursuant to a Florida statute. The Firm has moved to transfer both the Florida and New Jersey actions to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The Florida court denied the transfer motion, and that decision was subsequently affirmed. The Florida court granted the Firm s motion to dismiss the case in September 2015 and plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal. The Firm moved to dismiss the case pending in New York. Three shareholder derivative actions have also been filed in New York federal and state court against the Firm, as nominal defendant, and certain of its current and former Board members, alleging breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the Firm s relationship with Bernard Madoff and the alleged failure to maintain effective internal controls to detect fraudulent transactions. The actions seek declaratory relief and damages. All three actions have been dismissed and two are on appeal.Mortgage-Backed Securities and Repurchase Litigation and Related Regulatory Investigations. JPMorgan Chase and affiliates (together,  JPMC ), Bear Stearns and affiliates (together,  Bear Stearns ) and certain Washington Mutual affiliates (together,  Washington Mutual ) have been named as defendants in a number of cases in their various roles in offerings of mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ). These cases include class action suits on behalf of MBS purchasers, actions by individual MBS purchasers and actions by monoline insurance companies that guaranteed payments of principal and interest for particular tranches of MBS offerings. Following the settlements referred to under  Repurchase Litigation  and  Government Enforcement Investigations and Litigation  below, there are currently pending and tolled investor and monoline insurer claims involving MBS with an original principal balance of approximately $13.2 billion, of which $11.5 billion involves JPMC, Bear Stearns or Washington Mutual as issuer and $1.7 billion involves JPMC, Bear Stearns or Washington  Mutual solely as underwriter. The Firm and certain of its current and former officers and Board members have also been sued in shareholder derivative actions relating to the Firm s MBS activities, and trustees have asserted or have threatened to assert claims that loans in securitization trusts should be repurchased. Issuer Litigation   Class Actions. JPMC has reached agreements to settle all pending putative class actions on behalf of purchasers of MBS, although certain of these settlements are subject to court approval. Issuer Litigation   Individual Purchaser Actions. In addition to class actions, the Firm is defending individual actions brought against JPMC, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual as MBS issuers (and, in some cases, also as underwriters of their own MBS offerings). The Firm has settled a number of these actions. Several actions remain pending in federal and state courts across the U.S. and are in various stages of litigation. Monoline Insurer Litigation. The Firm is defending two pending actions relating to the same monoline insurer s guarantees of principal and interest on certain classes of 11 different Bear Stearns MBS offerings. These actions are pending in state court in New York and are in various stages of litigation. Underwriter Actions. In actions against the Firm involving offerings where the Firm was solely an underwriter of other issuers  MBS offerings, the Firm has contractual rights to indemnification from the issuers. However, those indemnity rights may prove effectively unenforceable in various situations, such as where the issuers are now defunct. Currently there is one such action pending against the Firm relating to a single offering of another issuer, and in a previously settled action, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to contest the District Court s reduction in the requested award of attorneys  fees. Repurchase Litigation. The Firm is defending a number of actions brought by trustees, securities administrators or master servicers of various MBS trusts and others on behalf of purchasers of securities issued by those trusts. These cases generally allege breaches of various representations and warranties regarding securitized loans and seek repurchase of those loans or equivalent monetary relief, as well as indemnification of attorneys  fees and costs and other remedies. Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, acting as trustee for various MBS trusts, has filed such a suit against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ) in connection with a significant number of MBS issued by Washington Mutual; that case is described in the Washington Mutual Litigations section below. Other repurchase actions, each specific to one or more MBS transactions issued by JPMC and/or Bear Stearns, are in various stages of litigation. In addition, the Firm and a group of 21 institutional MBS investors made a binding offer to the trustees of MBS issued by JPMC and Bear Stearns providing for the payment of $4.5 billion and the implementation of certain servicing 169changes by JPMC, to resolve all repurchase and servicing claims that have been asserted or could have been asserted with respect to 330 MBS trusts issued between 2005 and 2008. The offer does not resolve claims relating to Washington Mutual MBS. The seven trustees (or separate and successor trustees) for this group of 330 trusts have accepted the settlement for 319 trusts in whole or in part and excluded from the settlement 16 trusts in whole or in part. The trustees  acceptance is subject to a judicial approval proceeding initiated by the trustees and pending in New York state court. Certain investors in some of the trusts for which the settlement has been accepted have intervened in the judicial approval proceeding, challenging the trustees  acceptance of the settlement. A final hearing date has been scheduled for January 2016. In October 2015, JPMC reached agreements to resolve repurchase and servicing claims of four trusts among the 16 that were previously excluded from the settlement. These agreements are subject to a judicial approval proceeding. Additional actions have been filed against third-party trustees that relate to loan repurchase and servicing claims involving trusts sponsored by JPMC, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual.Derivative Actions. Shareholder derivative actions relating to the Firm s MBS activities have been filed against the Firm, as nominal defendant, and certain of its current and former officers and members of its Board of Directors, in New York state court and California federal court. Two of the New York actions have been dismissed and one is on appeal. A consolidated action in California federal court has been dismissed without prejudice for lack of personal jurisdiction and plaintiffs are pursuing discovery. Government Enforcement Investigations and Litigation. The Firm is responding to an ongoing investigation being conducted by DOJ s Criminal Division and two United States Attorney s Offices relating to MBS offerings securitized and sold by the Firm and its subsidiaries. The Firm has also received subpoenas and informal requests for information from state authorities concerning the issuance and underwriting of MBS-related matters. The Firm continues to respond to these MBS-related regulatory inquiries. In addition, the Firm continues to cooperate with investigations by DOJ, including the United States Attorney s Office for the District of Connecticut, the SEC Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, all of which relate to, among other matters, communications with counterparties in connection with certain secondary market trading in residential and commercial MBS. The Firm has entered into agreements with a number of entities that purchased MBS that toll applicable limitations periods with respect to their claims, and has settled, and in the future may settle, tolled claims. There is no assurance that the Firm will not be named as a defendant in additional MBS-related litigation.  Mortgage-Related Investigations and Litigation. One shareholder derivative action has been filed in New York Supreme Court against the Firm s Board of Directors alleging that the Board failed to exercise adequate oversight as to wrongful conduct by the Firm regarding mortgage servicing. In December 2014, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint and plaintiff has appealed. The Civil Division of the United States Attorney s Office for the Southern District of New York is conducting an investigation concerning the Firm s compliance with the Fair Housing Act and Equal Credit Opportunity Act ( ECOA ) in connection with its mortgage lending practices. In addition, three municipalities and a school district have commenced litigation against the Firm alleging violations of an unfair competition law and of the Fair Housing Act and ECOA and seeking statutory damages for the unfair competition claim, and, for the Fair Housing Act and ECOA claims, damages in the form of lost tax revenue and increased municipal costs associated with foreclosed properties. One of the municipal actions and the school district action were dismissed with prejudice, and motions to dismiss are pending in the remaining actions. The Firm has received inquiries from federal government authorities seeking information regarding documents filed by the Firm in bankruptcy proceedings, including proofs of claim, mortgage payment change notices, affidavits, declarations and other sworn statements. The Firm is responding to these inquiries. In March 2015, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A entered into a settlement agreement with the Executive Office for United States Bankruptcy Trustees and the United States Trustee Program to resolve issues relating to mortgage payment change notices and escrow statements in bankruptcy proceedings. Municipal Derivatives Litigation. Several civil actions were commenced in New York and Alabama courts against the Firm relating to certain Jefferson County, Alabama (the  County ) warrant underwritings and swap transactions. The claims in the civil actions generally alleged that the Firm made payments to certain third parties in exchange for being chosen to underwrite more than $3 billion in warrants issued by the County and to act as the counterparty for certain swaps executed by the County. The County filed for bankruptcy in November 2011. In June 2013, the County filed a Chapter 9 Plan of Adjustment, as amended (the  Plan of Adjustment ), which provided that all the above-described actions against the Firm would be released and dismissed with prejudice. In November 2013, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Plan of Adjustment, and in December 2013, certain sewer rate payers filed an appeal challenging the confirmation of the Plan of Adjustment. All conditions to the Plan of Adjustment s effectiveness, including the dismissal of the actions against the Firm, were satisfied or waived and the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Adjustment occurred in December 2013. Accordingly, all the above-described actions against the Firm have been dismissed pursuant to the terms of the Plan of Adjustment. The appeal of the 170Bankruptcy Court s order confirming the Plan of Adjustment remains pending. Parmalat. In 2003, following the bankruptcy of the Parmalat group of companies ( Parmalat ), criminal prosecutors in Italy investigated the activities of Parmalat, its directors and the financial institutions that had dealings with them following the collapse of the company. In March 2012, the criminal prosecutor served a notice indicating an intention to pursue criminal proceedings against four former employees of the Firm (but not against the Firm) on charges of conspiracy to cause Parmalat s insolvency by underwriting bonds and continuing derivatives trading when Parmalat s balance sheet was false. A preliminary hearing, in which the judge will determine whether to recommend that the matter go to a full trial, is ongoing. In addition, the administrator of Parmalat commenced five civil actions against JPMorgan Chase entities including: two claw-back actions; a claim relating to bonds issued by Parmalat in which it is alleged that JPMorgan Chase kept Parmalat  artificially  afloat and delayed the declaration of insolvency; and similar allegations in two claims relating to derivatives transactions. The Firm has entered into an agreement to settle these actions. Petters Bankruptcy and Related Matters. JPMorgan Chase and certain of its affiliates, including One Equity Partners ( OEP ), have been named as defendants in several actions filed in connection with the receivership and bankruptcy proceedings pertaining to Thomas J. Petters and certain affiliated entities (collectively,  Petters ) and the Polaroid Corporation. The principal actions against JPMorgan Chase and its affiliates have been brought by a court-appointed receiver for Petters and the trustees in bankruptcy proceedings for three Petters entities. These actions generally seek to avoid certain putative transfers in connection with (i) the 2005 acquisition by Petters of Polaroid, which at the time was majority-owned by OEP; (ii) two credit facilities that JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions entered into with Polaroid; and (iii) a credit line and investment accounts held by Petters. The actions collectively seek recovery of approximately $450 million. Defendants have moved to dismiss the complaints in the actions filed by the Petters bankruptcy trustees. Power Matters. The United States Attorney s Office for the Southern District of New York is investigating matters relating to the bidding activities that were the subject of the July 2013 settlement between J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The Firm is responding to and cooperating with the investigation. Proprietary Products Investigations and Litigation. The Firm has received information requests, subpoenas and related inquiries from the SEC, the CFTC and other government authorities regarding client disclosure concerning conflicts associated with the Firm s sale and use of proprietary products, such as J.P. Morgan mutual funds, in the Firm s wealth management businesses and the U.S. Private Bank s disclosures concerning the use of hedge funds that pay  placement agent fees to JPMorgan Chase broker-dealer affiliates. The Firm continues to cooperate with the investigations and is currently engaged in resolution discussions with the SEC and the CFTC. There is no assurance that such discussions will result in settlements. A putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on behalf of financial advisory clients from 2007 to the present whose funds were invested in proprietary funds and who were charged investment management fees. The Court granted the Firm s motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs  appeal of the dismissal is pending. Referral Hiring Practices Investigations. Various regulators are investigating, among other things, the Firm s compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws with respect to the Firm s hiring practices related to candidates referred by clients, potential clients and government officials, and its engagement of consultants in the Asia Pacific region. The Firm is responding to and cooperating with these investigations. Sworn Documents, Debt Sales and Collection Litigation Practices. In July 2015, the Firm announced a series of settlements with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ) and 47 state Attorneys General (and the District of Columbia) regarding practices involving credit card collections litigation (including with respect to sworn documents) and the sale of consumer credit card debt. Under the settlements, the Firm agreed to pay $96 million to the state Attorneys General (as well as $11 million for investigative costs) and $30 million to the CFPB.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency also imposed a $30 million civil money penalty on the Firm arising out of its 2013 Consent Order covering the same matters. Under the settlements, the Firm will also complete remediation of affected consumers. The California and Mississippi state Attorneys General filed separate civil actions against the Firm alleging violations of law relating to debt collection practices. In October 2015, the Firm reached a settlement with the California state Attorney General, agreeing to pay $50 million and to complete a remediation of affected customers. This settlement is subject to court approval. The Mississippi case remains pending.Washington Mutual Litigations. Proceedings related to Washington Mutual s failure are pending before the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and include a lawsuit brought by Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, initially against the FDIC and amended to include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a defendant, asserting an estimated $6 billion to $10 billion in damages based upon alleged breaches of certain representations and warranties given by certain Washington Mutual affiliates in connection with mortgage securitization agreements. The case includes assertions that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may have assumed liabilities for the alleged breaches of representations and warranties in the mortgage securitization agreements. In June 2015, the court ruled in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. on the question of whether the Firm or the FDIC bears responsibility for 171Washington Mutual Bank s repurchase obligations, holding that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. assumed only those liabilities that were reflected on Washington Mutual Bank s financial accounting records as of September 25, 2008, and only up to the amount of the book value reflected therein. In September 2015, the court certified that ruling for immediate appeal by the FDIC to the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Certain holders of Washington Mutual Bank debt filed an action against JPMorgan Chase which alleged that by acquiring substantially all of the assets of Washington Mutual Bank from the FDIC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. caused Washington Mutual Bank to default on its bond obligations. JPMorgan Chase and the FDIC moved to dismiss this action and the District Court dismissed the case except as to the plaintiffs  claim that JPMorgan Chase tortiously interfered with the plaintiffs  bond contracts with Washington Mutual Bank prior to its closure. Discovery in this action has been stayed pending a decision on JPMorgan Chase s motion to dismiss the plaintiffs  remaining claim. JPMorgan Chase has also filed complaints in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDIC, both in its capacity as receiver for Washington Mutual Bank and in its corporate capacity asserting multiple claims for indemnification under the terms of the Purchase & Assumption Agreement between JPMorgan Chase and the FDIC relating to JPMorgan Chase s purchase of most of the assets and certain liabilities of Washington Mutual Bank. Wendel. Since 2012, the French criminal authorities have been investigating a series of transactions entered into by senior managers of Wendel Investissement ( Wendel ) during the period from 2004 through 2007 to restructure their shareholdings in Wendel. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Paris branch provided financing for the transactions to a number of managers of Wendel in 2007. In April 2015, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. was notified that the authorities were formally investigating its role in the transactions. JPMorgan Chase is responding to and cooperating with the investigation. In addition, civil proceedings have been commenced against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. by a number of the managers. The claims are separate, involve different allegations and are at various stages of proceedings. *     *     *In addition to the various legal proceedings discussed above, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are named as defendants or are otherwise involved in a substantial number of other legal proceedings. The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding legal proceedings and it intends to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. Additional legal proceedings may be initiated from time to time in the future.  The Firm has established reserves for several hundred of its currently outstanding legal proceedings. In accordance with the provisions of U.S. GAAP for contingencies, the Firm accrues for a litigation-related liability when it is probable that such a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Firm evaluates its outstanding legal proceedings each quarter to assess its litigation reserves, and makes adjustments in such reserves, upwards or downward, as appropriate, based on management s best judgment after consultation with counsel. The Firm incurred legal expense of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $2.3 billion and $1.8 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. There is no assurance that the Firm s litigation reserves will not need to be adjusted in the future. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal proceedings, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages, or where the matters present novel legal theories, involve a large number of parties or are in early stages of discovery, the Firm cannot state with confidence what will be the eventual outcomes of the currently pending matters, the timing of their ultimate resolution or the eventual losses, fines, penalties or impact related to those matters. JPMorgan Chase believes, based upon its current knowledge, after consultation with counsel and after taking into account its current litigation reserves, that the legal proceedings currently pending against it should not have a material adverse effect on the Firm s consolidated financial condition. The Firm notes, however, that in light of the uncertainties involved in such proceedings, there is no assurance the ultimate resolution of these matters will not significantly exceed the reserves it has currently accrued; as a result, the outcome of a particular matter may be material to JPMorgan Chase s operating results for a particular period, depending on, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed and the level of JPMorgan Chase s income for that period. 172Note 24   Business segmentsThe Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four major reportable business segments   Consumer & Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset Management. In addition, there is a Corporate segment. The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase s business segments, see Business Segment Results on page 17, and pages 79 80, and Note 33 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. Segment resultsThe accompanying tables provide a summary of the Firm s segment results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, on a managed basis. Total net revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments is presented on a fully taxable-equivalent ( FTE ) basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense/(benefit).On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to its lines of business and updates equity allocations to its lines of business as refinements are implemented. 173(a)Managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that do not have any impact on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole.(b)Segment managed results reflect revenue on an FTE basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within income tax expense/(benefit). These FTE adjustments are eliminated in reconciling items to arrive at the Firm s reported U.S. GAAP results.174Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmTo the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.:We have reviewed the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries (the  Firm ) as of September 30, 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for each of the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 and changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. These interim financial statements are the responsibility of the Firm s management.We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the accompanying consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the year then ended (not presented herein), and in our report dated February 24, 2015, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.November 2, 2015PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 300 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10017175(a)Represents securities which are tax exempt for U.S. federal income tax purposes.(b)Includes margin loans.(c)Includes brokerage customer payables.(d)Interest includes the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable.(e)Negative interest income and yield is a result of increased client-driven demand for certain securities combined with the impact of low interest rates; this is matched book activity and the negative interest expense on the corresponding securities loaned is recognized in interest expense and reported within trading liabilities   debt, short-term and other liabilities.(f)For the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, the annualized rates for securities, based on amortized cost, were 2.90% and 2.79%, respectively; this does not give effect to changes in fair value that are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss).(g)Included trading liabilities   debt and equity instruments of $78,439 million and $85,407 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.176(a)Represents securities which are tax exempt for U.S. federal income tax purposes.(b)Includes margin loans.(c)Includes brokerage customer payables.(d)Interest includes the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable.(e)Negative interest income and yield is a result of increased client-driven demand for certain securities combined with the impact of low interest rates; this is matched book activity and the negative interest expense on the corresponding securities loaned is recognized in interest expense and reported within trading liabilities   debt, short-term and other liabilities.(f)For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, the annualized rates for securities, based on amortized cost, were 2.87% and 2.82% and respectively; this does not give effect to changes in fair value that are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss).(g)Included trading liabilities   debt and equity instruments of $81,913 million and $85,289 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.177GLOSSARY OF TERMSActive foreclosures: Loans referred to foreclosure where formal foreclosure proceedings are ongoing. Includes both judicial and non-judicial states.Allowance for loan losses to total loans: Represents period-end allowance for loan losses divided by retained loans.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs: Represents the interest of third-party holders of debt, equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates.Benefit obligation: Refers to the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for OPEB plans. Client deposits and other third party liabilities: Deposits, as well as deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements) as part of client cash management programs.Central counterparty ( CCP ): A CCP is a clearing house that interposes itself between counterparties to contracts traded in one or more financial markets, becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer and thereby ensuring the future performance of open contracts. A CCP becomes counterparty to trades with market participants through novation, an open offer system, or another legally binding arrangement.Commercial Card provides a wide range of payment services to corporate and public sector clients worldwide through the commercial card products. Services include procurement, corporate travel and entertainment, expense management services, and business-to-business payment solutions.Core loans: Loans considered central to the Firm s ongoing businesses; core loans exclude loans classified as trading assets, runoff portfolios, discontinued portfolios and portfolios the Firm has an intent to exit. Credit derivatives: Financial instruments whose value is derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third party issuer (the reference entity) which allow one party (the protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the protection seller). Upon the occurrence of a credit event by the reference entity, which may include, among other events, the bankruptcy or failure to pay its obligations, or certain restructurings of the debt of the reference entity, neither party has recourse to the reference entity. The protection purchaser has recourse to the protection seller for the difference between the face value of the CDS contract and the fair value at the time of settling the credit derivative contract. The determination as to whether a credit event has occurred is generally made by the relevant International Swaps and Derivatives Association ( ISDA ) Determinations Committee.  Distributed denial-of-service attack: The use of a large number of remote computer systems to electronically send a high volume of traffic to a target website to create a service outage at the target. This is a form of cyberattack.Exchange-traded derivatives: Derivative contracts that are executed on an exchange and settled via a central clearing house.Fee share: Proportion of fee revenue based on estimates of investment banking fees generated across the industry from investment banking transactions in M&A, equity and debt underwriting, and loan syndications. Source: Dealogic, a third party provider of investment banking fee competitive analysis and volume-based league tables for the above noted industry products.FICO score: A measure of consumer credit risk provided by credit bureaus, typically produced from statistical models by Fair Isaac Corporation utilizing data collected by the credit bureaus. Forward points: Represents the interest rate differential between two currencies, which is either added to or subtracted from the current exchange rate (i.e.,  spot rate ) to determine the forward exchange rate. Group of Seven ( G7 ) nations: Countries in the G7 are Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. G7 government bonds: Bonds issued by the government of one of the G7 nations. Headcount-related expense: Includes salary and benefits (excluding performance-based incentives), and other noncompensation costs related to employees.Home equity   senior lien: Represents loans and commitments where JPMorgan Chase holds the first security interest on the property. Home equity   junior lien: Represents loans and commitments where JPMorgan Chase holds a security interest that is subordinate in rank to other liens. Impaired loan: Impaired loans are loans measured at amortized cost, for which it is probable that the Firm will be unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and interest, according to the contractual terms of the agreement. Impaired loans include the following:  All wholesale nonaccrual loans  All TDRs (both wholesale and consumer), including ones that have returned to accrual status Interchange income: A fee paid to a credit card issuer in the clearing and settlement of a sales or cash advance transaction.178Investment-grade: An indication of credit quality based on JPMorgan Chase s internal risk assessment system.  Investment grade  generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a  BBB- / Baa3  or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.LLC: Limited Liability Company. Loan-to-value ( LTV ) ratio: For residential real estate loans, the relationship, expressed as a percentage, between the principal amount of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral (i.e., residential real estate) securing the loan. Current estimated LTV ratio An estimate of the LTV as of a certain date. The current estimated LTV ratios are calculated using estimated collateral values derived from a nationally recognized home price index measured at the metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) level. These MSA-level home price indices comprise actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not available. As a result, the estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting LTV ratios are necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates. Combined LTV ratio The LTV ratio considering all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property. Combined LTV ratios are used for junior lien home equity products. Managed basis: A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses this non- GAAP financial measure at the segment level, because it believes this provides information to enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.Master netting agreement: An agreement between two counterparties who have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts, as well as cash collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one contract. Mortgage product types: Alt-A Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality than subprime loans but have characteristics that would disqualify the borrower from a traditional prime loan. Alt-A lending characteristics may include one or more of the following: (i) limited documentation; (ii) a high combined loan-to-value ( CLTV ) ratio; (iii) loans secured by non-owner occupied properties; or (iv) a debt-to-income ratio above normal limits. A substantial proportion of the Firm s Alt-A loans are those where a borrower does not provide complete documentation of his or her assets or the amount or source of his or her income.  Option ARMs The option ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-rate mortgage loan that provides the borrower with the option each month to make a fully amortizing, interest-only or minimum payment. The minimum payment on an option ARM loan is based on the interest rate charged during the introductory period. This introductory rate is usually significantly below the fully indexed rate. The fully indexed rate is calculated using an index rate plus a margin. Once the introductory period ends, the contractual interest rate charged on the loan increases to the fully indexed rate and adjusts monthly to reflect movements in the index. The minimum payment is typically insufficient to cover interest accrued in the prior month, and any unpaid interest is deferred and added to the principal balance of the loan. Option ARM loans are subject to payment recast, which converts the loan to a variable-rate fully amortizing loan upon meeting specified loan balance and anniversary date triggers. Prime Prime mortgage loans are made to borrowers with good credit records who meet specific underwriting requirements, including prescriptive requirements related to income and overall debt levels. New prime mortgage borrowers provide full documentation and generally have reliable payment histories. Subprime Subprime loans are loans that, prior to mid-2008, were offered to certain customers with one or more high risk characteristics, including but not limited to: (i) unreliable or poor payment histories; (ii) a high LTV ratio of greater than 80% (without borrower-paid mortgage insurance); (iii) a high debt-to-income ratio; (iv) an occupancy type for the loan is other than the borrower s primary residence; or (v) a history of delinquencies or late payments on the loan. NA: Data is not applicable or available for the period presented. Net charge-off/(recovery) rate: Represents net charge-offs/(recoveries) (annualized) divided by average retained loans for the reporting period.Net yield on interest-earning assets: The average rate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.NM: Not meaningful. Nonaccrual loans: Loans for which interest income is not recognized on an accrual basis. Loans (other than credit card loans and certain consumer loans insured by U.S. government agencies) are placed on nonaccrual status when full payment of principal and interest is not expected or when principal and interest has been in default for a period of 90 days or more unless the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection. Collateral-dependent loans are typically maintained on nonaccrual status. 179Nonperforming assets: Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, nonperforming derivatives and certain assets acquired in loan satisfaction, predominantly real estate owned and other commercial and personal property.Over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivatives: Derivative contracts that are negotiated, executed and settled bilaterally between two derivative counterparties, where one or both counterparties is a derivatives dealer. Over-the-counter cleared ( OTC cleared ) derivatives: Derivative contracts that are negotiated and executed bilaterally, but subsequently settled via a central clearing house, such that each derivative counterparty is only exposed to the default of that clearing house. Overhead ratio: Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.Participating securities: Represents unvested stock-based compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (collectively,  dividends ), which are included in the earnings per share calculation using the two-class method. JPMorgan Chase grants restricted stock and RSUs to certain employees under its stock-based compensation programs, which entitle the recipients to receive nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a basis equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common stock. These unvested awards meet the definition of participating securities. Under the two-class method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to each class of common stock and participating securities, based on their respective rights to receive dividends.Pre-provision profit/(loss): Represents total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate income in excess of its provision for credit losses.Principal transactions revenue: Principal transactions revenue includes realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded on derivatives, other financial instruments, private equity investments, and physical commodities used in market-making and client-driven activities. In addition, Principal transactions revenue also includes certain realized and unrealized gains and losses related to hedge accounting and specified risk management activities including: (a) certain derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships (primarily fair value hedges of commodity and foreign exchange risk), (b) certain derivatives used for specified risk management purposes, primarily to mitigate credit risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and (c) other derivatives. Purchased credit-impaired ( PCI ) loans: Represents loans that were acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and deemed to be credit-impaired on the acquisition date in accordance with the guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ). The guidance allows purchasers to aggregate credit-impaired loans acquired in the same  fiscal quarter into one or more pools, provided that the loans have common risk characteristics (e.g., product type, LTV ratios, FICO scores, past due status, geographic location). A pool is then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. Receivables from customers: Primarily represents margin loans to prime and retail brokerage customers which are included in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated balance sheets.Reported basis: Financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP, which excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent adjustments.Retained loans: Loans that are held-for-investment (i.e. excludes loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value). Risk-weighted assets ( RWA ): Basel III establishes two comprehensive methodologies for calculating RWA (a Standardized approach and an Advanced approach) which include capital requirements for credit risk, market risk, and in the case of Basel III Advanced, also operational risk. Key differences in the calculation of credit risk RWA between the Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for Basel III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary primarily by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced, both of which incorporate the requirements set forth in Basel 2.5. Seed capital: Initial JPMorgan capital invested in products, such as mutual funds, with the intention of ensuring the fund is of sufficient size to represent a viable offering to clients, enabling pricing of its shares, and allowing the manager to develop a track record. After these goals are achieved, the intent is to remove the Firm s capital from the investment.Short sale: A short sale is a sale of real estate in which proceeds from selling the underlying property are less than the amount owed the Firm under the terms of the related mortgage and the related lien is released upon receipt of such proceeds.Structural interest rate risk: Represents interest rate risk of the non-trading assets and liabilities of the Firm.Structured notes: Structured notes are predominantly financial instruments containing embedded derivatives. Where present, the embedded derivative is the primary driver of risk. Suspended foreclosures: Loans referred to foreclosure where formal foreclosure proceedings have started but are currently on hold, which could be due to bankruptcy or loss mitigation. Includes both judicial and non-judicial states. 180Taxable-equivalent basis: In presenting managed results, the total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities; the corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense.Troubled debt restructuring ( TDR ): A TDR is deemed to occur when the Firm modifies the original terms of a loan agreement by granting a concession to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty. Unaudited: Financial statements and information that have not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public accountant to express an opinion. U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations: Obligations of agencies originally established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes as specified by the U.S. Congress; these obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. U.S. Treasury: U.S. Department of the Treasury. Value-at-risk ( VaR ): A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.Warehouse loans: Consist of prime mortgages originated with the intent to sell that are accounted for at fair value and classified as trading assets. Washington Mutual transaction: On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain of the assets of the banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank ( Washington Mutual ) from the FDIC. 181LINE OF BUSINESS METRICSCONSUMER & COMMUNITY BANKING ( CCB )Households   A household is a collection of individuals or entities aggregated together by name, address, tax identifier and phone. Reported on a one-month lag.Consumer & Business Banking ( CBB )Description of selected business metrics within CBB:Client investment managed accounts   Assets actively managed by Chase Wealth Management on behalf of clients. The percentage of managed accounts is calculated by dividing managed account assets by total client investment assets.Client advisors   Investment product specialists, including private client advisors, financial advisors, financial advisor associates, senior financial advisors, independent financial advisors and financial advisor associate trainees, who advise clients on investment options, including annuities, mutual funds, stock trading services, etc., sold by the Firm or by third-party vendors through retail branches, Chase Private Client locations and other channels.Personal bankers   Retail branch office personnel who acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.Sales specialists   Retail branch office and field personnel, including relationship managers and loan officers, who specialize in marketing and sales of various business banking products (i.e., business loans, letters of credit, deposit accounts, Chase Paymentech, etc.) and mortgage products to existing and new clients.Deposit margin/deposit spread - Represents net interest income expressed as a percentage of average deposits.Chase Liquid  cards   Refers to a prepaid, reloadable card product.Mortgage Banking ( MB )Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing revenue comprises the following:Net production revenue includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of mortgage loans, other production-related fees and losses related to the repurchase of previously-sold loans. Net mortgage servicing revenue includes the following components:a)  Operating revenue predominantly represents the return on Mortgage Servicing s MSR asset and includes: Actual gross income earned from servicing third-party mortgage loans, such as contractually specified servicing fees and ancillary income; and The change in the fair value of the MSR asset due to the collection or realization of expected cash flows.b)  Risk management represents the components of Mortgage Servicing s MSR asset that are subject to ongoing risk management activities, together with derivatives and other instruments used in those risk management activities.Mortgage origination channels comprise the following:Retail   Borrowers who buy or refinance a home through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by a banker in a Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.Correspondent   Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto ( Card )Description of selected business metrics within Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto:Card Services includes the Credit Card and Commerce Solutions businesses.Commerce Solutions is a business that primarily processes transactions for merchants.Sales volume   Dollar amount of cardmember purchases, net of returns.Open accounts   Cardmember accounts with charging privilegesTotal transactions   Number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants.Auto loan and lease origination volume   Dollar amount of auto loans and leases originated.CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK ( CIB )Definition of selected CIB revenue:Investment banking revenue incorporates all revenue associated with investment banking activities, and is reported net of investment banking revenue shared with other lines of business.182Treasury Services offers a broad range of products and services that enable clients to manage payments and receipts, as well as invest and manage funds. Products include U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, lockbox, disbursement and reconciliation services, check deposits, and currency-related services.Lending includes net interest income, fees, gains or losses on loan sale activity, gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, and the risk management results related to the credit portfolio. Lending also includes Trade Finance, which includes loans tied directly to goods crossing borders, export/import loans, commercial letters of credit, standby letters of credit, and supply chain finance.Fixed Income Markets primarily include revenue related to market-making across global fixed income markets, including foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and commodities markets. Equity Markets primarily include revenue related to market-making across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives, convertibles and Prime Services.Securities Services includes primarily custody, fund accounting and administration, and securities lending products sold principally to asset managers, insurance companies and public and private investment funds. Also includes clearance, collateral management and depositary receipts business which provides broker-dealer clearing and custody services, including tri-party repo transactions, collateral management products, and depositary bank services for American and global depositary receipt programs.Description of certain business metrics:Assets under custody ( AUC ) represents activities associated with the safekeeping and servicing of assets on which Securities Services earns fees.Investment banking fees include advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.COMMERCIAL BANKING ( CB )CB is divided into four primary client segments: Middle Market Banking, Corporate Client Banking, Commercial Term Lending, and Real Estate Banking.Middle Market Banking covers corporate, municipal and nonprofit clients, with annual revenue generally ranging between $20 million and $500 million.Corporate Client Banking covers clients with annual revenue generally ranging between $500 million and $2 billion and focuses on clients that have broader investment banking needs.Commercial Term Lending primarily provides term financing to real estate investors/owners for multifamily properties as well as office, retail and industrial properties. Real Estate Banking provides full-service banking to investors and developers of institutional-grade real estate investment properties.Other primarily includes lending and investment activity within the Community Development Banking and Chase Capital businesses.CB product revenue comprises the following:Lending includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are primarily provided on a basis secured by receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include term loans, revolving lines of credit, bridge financing, asset-based structures, leases, and standby letters of credit.Treasury services includes revenue from a broad range of products and services (as defined by Treasury Services revenue in the CIB description of revenue) that enable CB clients to manage payments and receipts, as well as invest and manage funds.Investment banking includes revenue from a range of products providing CB clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools through advisory, equity underwriting, and loan syndications. Revenue from Fixed income and Equity market products (as defined by Fixed Income Markets and Equity Markets revenue in the CIB description of revenue) used by CB clients is also included. Investment banking revenue, gross, represents total revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB clients.Other product revenue primarily includes tax-equivalent adjustments generated from Community Development Banking activity and certain income derived from principal transactions.ASSET MANAGEMENT ( AM )Assets under management   Represent assets actively managed by AM on behalf of its Private Banking, Institutional and Retail clients. Includes  Committed capital not Called,  on which AM earns fees.Client assets   Represent assets under management, as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.Multi-asset   Any fund or account that allocates assets under management to more than one asset class.183Alternative assets   The following types of assets constitute alternative investments   hedge funds, currency, real estate, private equity and other investment funds designed to focus on nontraditional strategies.AM s lines of business comprise the following:Global Investment Management provides comprehensive global investment services - including asset management, pension analytics, asset-liability management and active risk-budgeting strategies.Global Wealth Management offers investment advice and wealth management, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, lending and specialty-wealth advisory services.AM s client segments comprise the following:Private Banking clients include high- and ultra-high-net-worth individuals, families, money managers, business owners and small corporations worldwide.Institutional clients include both corporate and public institutions, endowments, foundations, nonprofit organizations and governments worldwide.Retail clients include financial intermediaries and individual investors.J.P. Morgan Asset Management has two high-level measures of its overall fund performance:Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds rated 4- or 5-star: Mutual fund rating services rank funds based on their risk-adjusted performance over various periods. A 5-star rating is the best rating and represents the top 10% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 4-star rating represents the next 22.5% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 3-star rating represents the next 35% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 2-star rating represents the next 22.5% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 1-star rating is the worst rating and represents the bottom 10% of industry-wide ranked funds. The  overall Morningstar rating  is derived from a weighted average of the performance figures associated with a fund s three-, five- and ten-year (if applicable) Morningstar Rating metrics. For U.S. domiciled funds, separate star ratings are given at the individual share class level. The Nomura  star rating  is based on three-year risk-adjusted performance only. Funds with fewer than three years of history are not rated and hence excluded from this analysis. All ratings, the assigned peer categories and the asset values used to derive this analysis are sourced from these fund rating providers. The data providers re-denominate the asset values into USD. This % of AUM is based on star ratings at the share class level for U.S. domiciled funds, and at a  primary share class  level to represent the star rating of all other funds except for Japan where Nomura provides ratings at the fund level. The  primary share class , as defined by Morningstar,  denotes the share class recommended as being the best proxy for the portfolio and in most cases will be the most retail version (based upon annual management charge, minimum investment, currency and other factors). The performance data could have been different if all funds/accounts would have been included. Past performance is not indicative of future results.Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds ranked in the 1st or 2nd quartile (one, three and five years): All quartile rankings, the assigned peer categories and the asset values used to derive this analysis are sourced from the fund ranking providers. Quartile rankings are done on the net-of-fee absolute return of each fund. The data providers re-denominate the asset values into USD. This % of AUM is based on fund performance and associated peer rankings at the share class level for U.S. domiciled funds, at a  primary share class  level to represent the quartile ranking of Luxembourg, U.K. and Hong Kong funds and at the fund level for all other funds. The  primary share class , as defined by Morningstar, denotes the share class recommended as being the best proxy for the portfolio and in most cases will be the most retail version (based upon annual management charge, minimum investment, currency and other factors). Where peer group rankings given for a fund are in more than one  primary share class  territory both rankings are included to reflect local market competitiveness (applies to  Offshore Territories  and  HK SFC Authorized  funds only). The performance data could have been different if all funds/accounts would have been included. Past performance is not indicative of future results.184Item 3    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskFor a discussion of the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, see the Market Risk Management section of Management s discussion and analysis on pages 63 66 of this Form 10-Q and pages 131 136 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report.Item 4    Controls and ProceduresAs of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Firm s management, including its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on that evaluation, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures were effective. See Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 for the Certification statements issued by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.The Firm is committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting. Nevertheless, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, in a firm as large and complex as JPMorgan Chase, lapses or deficiencies in internal controls do occur from time to time, and there can be no assurance that any such deficiencies will not result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls in the future. For further information, see  Management s report on internal control over financial reporting  on page 170 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report. There was no change in the Firm s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the three months ended September 30, 2015, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Firm s internal control over financial reporting.Part II Other InformationItem 1    Legal ProceedingsFor information that updates the disclosures set forth under Part I, Item 3: Legal Proceedings, in the Firm s 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K, see the discussion of the Firm s material legal proceedings in Note 23 of this Form 10-Q.Item 1A    Risk FactorsFor a discussion of certain risk factors affecting the Firm,see Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors on pages 8 17 of JPMorgan Chase s 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Forward-Looking Statements on page 85 of this Form 10-Q. Item 2    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsDuring the three months ended September 30, 2015, there were no shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase & Co. issued in transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof.Repurchases under the common equity repurchase programFollowing receipt of the Federal Reserve s non-objection to the Firm s 2015 capital plans submitted under CCAR, the Firm s Board of Directors authorized the Firm to repurchase up to $6.4 billion of common equity (common stock and warrants) between April 1, 2015, and June 30, 2016. This authorization includes shares repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm s equity-based compensation plans.The following table sets forth the Firm s repurchases of common equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. There were no warrants repurchased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014.The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common equity   for example, during internal trading blackout periods. All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.185The authorization to repurchase common equity will be utilized at management s discretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact amount of common equity that may be repurchased is subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal and regulatory considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm s capital position (taking into account goodwill and  intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative investment opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables; may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.Shares repurchased pursuant to the common equity repurchase program during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, were as follows.(a)The unused portion under the prior Board authorization was canceled when the $6.4 billion program was authorized. Repurchases during the second quarter included $29 million under the prior program.(b)Excludes commissions cost.(c)Dollar value remaining under the new $6.4 billion program.Item 3    Defaults Upon Senior SecuritiesNone.Item 4    Mine Safety DisclosureNot applicable.Item 5    Other InformationNone. Item 6    Exhibits15Letter re: Unaudited Interim Financial Information(a)31.1Certification(a)31.2Certification(a)32Certification Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002(b)101.INS XBRLInstance Document(a)(c)101.SCH XBRLTaxonomy Extension Schema Document(a)101.CAL XBRLTaxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document(a)101.LAB XBRLTaxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document(a)101.PRE XBRLTaxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document(a)101.DEF XBRLTaxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document(a)(a)Filed herewith.(b)Furnished herewith. This exhibit shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that Section. Such exhibit shall not be deemed incorporated into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.(c)Pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, includes the following financial information included in the Firm s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2015, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) interactive data files: (i) the Consolidated statements of income (unaudited) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, (ii) the Consolidated statements of comprehensive income (unaudited) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, (iii) the Consolidated balance sheets (unaudited) as of September 30, 2015, and December 31, 2014, (iv) the Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders  equity (unaudited) for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, (v) the Consolidated statements of cash flows (unaudited) for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).186SIGNATUREPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.JPMorgan Chase & Co.(Registrant)By:/s/ Mark W. O Donovan Mark W. O Donovan Managing Director and Corporate Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)187INDEX TO EXHIBITSExhibit No. Description of Exhibit   15 Letter re: Unaudited Interim Financial Information   31.1 Certification   31.2 Certification   32 Certification Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    101.INS XBRL Instance Document101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document     This exhibit shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that Section. Such exhibit shall not be deemed incorporated into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.188   