 10-K 1 fy1510k1022015.htm 10-K     10-K  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C. 20549FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015 ORoTRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the transition period from __________to__________Commission file number 001-05560SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware04-2302115(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)20 Sylvan Road, Woburn, Massachusetts01801(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)  Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (781) 376-3000Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:Title of Each ClassName of Each Exchange on Which RegisteredCommon Stock, par value $0.25 per shareNASDAQ Global Select MarketSecurities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  o  No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.o  Yes       No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes o  NoIndicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes  o  NoIndicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large Accelerated filer    Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o    Smaller reporting company o   (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).o  Yes   NoThe aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant (based on the closing price of the registrant s common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (April 3, 2015) was approximately $18,378,125,308. The number of outstanding shares of the registrant s common stock, par value $0.25 per share, as of November 13, 2015 was 191,151,089.DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCEPart of Form 10-K Documents from which portions are incorporated by referencePart III Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement relating to the Registrant s 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed) are incorporated by reference into Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-KFOR THE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 2, 2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE NO.PART I   ITEM 1:     BUSINESS. 5  ITEM 1A:  RISK FACTORS. 10  ITEM 1B:  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 22  ITEM 2:     PROPERTIES. 22  ITEM 3:     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 22  ITEM 4:     MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. 22  PART II   ITEM 5:     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. 23  ITEM 6:     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. 24  ITEM 7:     MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 25  ITEM 7A:   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 32  ITEM 8:     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. 34  ITEM 9:     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. 62  ITEM 9A:   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. 63  ITEM 9B:   OTHER INFORMATION. 63  PART III   ITEM 10:    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. 64  ITEM 11:   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. 64  ITEM 12:   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. 64  ITEM 13:   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. 64  ITEM 14:   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES. 64  PART IV   ITEM 15:   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. 65  SIGNATURES 66 2Table of ContentsCAUTIONARY STATEMENT This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the  safe harbor  created by those sections. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact should be considered to be forward-looking statements. Words such as  believes ,  expects ,  may ,  will ,  would ,  should ,  could ,  seek ,  intends ,  plans ,  projects ,  potential ,  continue ,  estimates ,  targets ,  anticipates ,  predicts  and similar expressions or variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report.    Additionally, forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our plans to develop and market new products, enhancements or technologies and the timing of these development and marketing plans; our estimates regarding our capital requirements and our needs for additional financing; our estimates of our expenses, future revenues and profitability;  our estimates of the size of the markets for our products and services;  our expectations related to the rate and degree of market acceptance of our products; and  our estimates of the success of other competing technologies that may become available. Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual financial results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this report and in the other documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this report. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.This Annual Report also contains estimates made by independent parties and by us relating to market size and growth and other industry data. These estimates involve a number of assumptions and limitations and you are cautioned not to give undue weight to such estimates. In addition, projections, assumptions and estimates of our future performance and the future performance of the industries in which we operate are necessarily subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due to a variety of important factors, including those described in  Risk Factors  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . These and other factors could cause results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in the estimates made by the independent parties and by us.In this document, the words  we ,  our ,  ours ,  us , and  the Company  refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries and not any other person or entity. In addition, the following is a list of industry standards that may be referenced throughout the document: BiFET (Bipolar Field Effect Transistor): integrates indium gallium phosphide based heterojunction bipolar transistors with field effect transistors on the same gallium arsenide substrate CATV (Cable Television): a system of providing television to consumers via radio frequency signals transmitted to televisions through fixed optical fibers or coaxial cables as opposed to the over-the-air method used in traditional television broadcasting CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access): a method for transmitting multiple digital signals over the same carrier frequency Cloud (Cloud Computing): A model for delivering information technology services in which resources are retrieved from the internet through web-based tools and applications, rather than a direct connection to a server CMOS (Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor): a technology of constructing integrated circuits EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution): an enhancement to the GSM and TDMA wireless communications systems that increases data throughput to 474Kbps 3Table of Contents GaAs (Gallium Arsenide):  a compound of the elements gallium and arsenic that is used in the production of semiconductors GPRS (General Packet Radio Service): an enhancement to the GSM mobile communications system that supports transmission of data packets GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications): a digital cellular phone technology based on TDMA that is the predominant system in Europe, and is also used around the world HBT (Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor): a type of bipolar junction transistor which uses differing semiconductor materials for the emitter and base regions, creating a heterojunction Internet of Things (IoT): is the interconnection of uniquely identifiable embedded computing devices within the existing internet infrastructure LED (Light Emitting Diode): a two-lead semiconductor light source LTE (Long Term Evolution): 4th generation ( 4G ) radio technologies designed to increase the capacity and speed of mobile telephone networks pHEMT (Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistor): a type of field effect transistor incorporating a junction between two materials with different band gaps RFID (Radio Frequency Identification): refers to the use of an electronic tag (typically referred to as an RFID tag) for the purpose of identification and tracking objects using radio waves Satcom (Satellite Communications): where a satellite stationed in space is used for the purpose of telecommunications SOI (Silicon On Insulator): technology refers to the use of layered silicon-insulator-silicon substrate in place of conventional silicon substrates in semiconductor manufacturing TDMA (Time Divisional Multiple Access): technology for delivering wireless digital service using time division multiplexing TD-SCDMA (Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access): a third generation wireless services ( 3G ) mobile communications standard, being pursued in the People s Republic of China WCDMA (Wideband CDMA): a 3G technology that increases data transmission rates WEDGE: an acronym for technologies that support both WCDMA and EDGE wireless communication systems WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access): a standards-based technology enabling the delivery of last mile wireless broadband access as an alternative to cable and DSL WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network): a type of local-area network that uses high-frequency radio waves rather than wires to communicate between nodes Yield: The number of working chips out of the total number of chips manufacturedSkyworks, Breakthrough Simplicity, the star design logo, Trans-Tech and SkyOne are trademarks or registered trademarks of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and in other countries.  All other brands and names listed are trademarks of their respective companies. 4Table of ContentsPART lITEM 1. BUSINESS.Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ( Skyworks  or the  Company ) is empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.Our key customers include Arris, Bose, Cisco, Dell, Ericsson, Foxconn, Fujitsu, General Electric, Google, Honeywell, HTC, Huawei, Landis & Gyr, Lenovo, LG Electronics, Microsoft, Nest, Netgear, Northrop Grumman, Rockwell Collins, Samsung, Sonos, and ZTE.  Our competitors include Analog Devices, Avago Technologies, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, Murata Manufacturing, NXP, QUALCOMM and Qorvo.Headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts, we are a Delaware corporation that was formed in 1962. We changed our corporate name from Alpha Industries, Inc. to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. on June 25, 2002, following a business combination. We operate worldwide with engineering, manufacturing, sales and service facilities throughout Asia, Europe and North America. Our Internet address is www.skyworksinc.com. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after we electronically submit such material to the SEC. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report.  You may read and copy materials that we have filed with the SEC at the SEC public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.  Our SEC filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov.In August 2014, we entered into a joint venture with Panasonic Corporation, through its Automotive & Industrial Systems Company ( Panasonic ) for the design, manufacture and sale of Panasonic s surface acoustic wave ( SAW ) and temperature-compensated ( TC ) SAW filter products. We own a controlling 66% interest in the joint venture and have the option to acquire the remaining 34% interest in August 2016, which we plan to exercise. With the overall demand for SAW and TC SAW filters increasing as the technology and product architectures become more complex and the number of required bands grows, this investment assists us in securing a firm supply of SAW and TC SAW filters, in addition to allowing us to integrate filters into the design and production of our own products. In January 2012, we acquired Advanced Analogic Technologies Inc. ( AATI ) and accelerated our entry into vertical markets with highly complementary analog semiconductor product lines, including battery chargers, DC/DC converters, voltage regulators and LED drivers. Power management semiconductors represent a strategic growth market for us in applications like voltage regulation, energy efficiency and panel backlighting within the consumer electronics, computing and communications markets.In June 2011, we acquired SiGe Semiconductor, Inc. ( SiGe ) and expanded our RF front-end solutions to facilitate wireless multimedia across a wide range of new applications. The acquisition of SiGe complemented our strong position in wide area front-end solutions by adding SiGe s innovative short range, silicon-based products. As a result, today we offer customers a comprehensive wireless networking portfolio, supporting all key operating frequencies with greater architectural flexibility to address a variety of high growth applications.INDUSTRY BACKGROUNDBy all measures, wireless connectivity is exploding, fueled by a powerful underlying demand to connect everyone and everything all the time. With semiconductor devices becoming ever smaller, more powerful, affordable and virtually attachable to anything, telecommunication networks creating pipelines which these devices can connect to at little or no cost, and various devices now being able to collect, process and analyze data we are seeing a convergence of elements driving connectivity across the Internet of Things. The billions of connected devices that comprise the Internet of Things will be enabled by a combination of sensors and microcontrollers, as well as connectivity and power management solutions. This is helping to fuel Skyworks  growth and expand its served markets.  In fact, today there are a number of groundbreaking devices leveraging Skyworks  technology from the newest smartphones to the factory floor to the connected car, automated home, wearables, hospitals and medical providers. Within smartphones and other mobile platforms, Skyworks is benefiting from the complexity associated with the increasing number of frequency bands as well as from the multitude of RF design challenges brought about as consumers use their devices to stream video, make purchases, network on social media platforms, pay bills and much more. These design challenges require a broad set  5Table of Contentsof core competencies to ensure seamless handoffs between multiple air interface standards and to effectively address signal transmission and conditioning, power management, voltage regulation, filtering and tuning complexities.  As a result, our customers  needs have dramatically moved away from discrete components toward customized integrated solutions that sweep in adjacent functionality and analog content. At the same time, in emerging markets around the world, the demand for mobile connectivity continues to grow as the industry drives toward connecting the billions of people who remain unconnected.  According to the Global Semiconductor Market Association, more than 65 percent of the global population will use smartphones by 2020, with emerging markets forecasted to lead this growth.  Beyond mobile, our solutions are enabling a broad set of end markets and applications some of which are embracing connectivity for the very first time including action video cameras, smart watches, streaming music platforms, and avionics systems.  With some analysts expecting the number of connected devices to reach a staggering 70 billion by 2020, Skyworks has no shortage of growth opportunities across new and emerging markets and applications. Solving Connectivity ChallengesThis transition to ubiquitous connectivity, however, does not come without its challenges. RF solutions in ultra-thin, high performance consumer products must preserve battery life, increase data rates and solve signal interference problems while occupying minimal board space. Meeting these design challenges requires broad competencies including signal transmission and conditioning, the ability to ensure seamless hand-offs between multiple standards, power management, voltage regulation, battery charging, filtering and tuning, among others. This complexity plays directly to Skyworks  strengths. We have a strong heritage in analog systems design and have spent the last decade investing in key technologies and resources. We are at the forefront of advanced multi-chip module integration and offer unmatched technology breadth, providing deep expertise in CMOS, SOI, GaAs and filters and maintaining strategic partnerships with outside foundries.SKYWORKS  STRATEGYSkyworks  overall strategy is to enable all forms of connectivity through semiconductor innovation. Key elements in our strategy include:Industry-Leading TechnologyAs the industry migrates to more complex LTE architectures across a multitude of wireless broadband applications, we are uniquely positioned to help mobile device manufacturers handle growing levels of system complexity in the transmit and receive chain.  The trend towards increasing front-end and analog design challenges in smartphones and other mobile devices plays directly into Skyworks  core strengths and positions us to address these challenges.  We believe that we offer the broadest portfolio of radio and analog solutions from the transceiver to the antenna as well as all required manufacturing process technologies.  Our expertise includes BiFET, CMOS, HBT, pHEMT, SOI and silicon germanium processes.  We also hold strong technology leadership positions in passive devices, advanced integration including proprietary shielding and 3-D die stacking, as well as SAW and TC SAW filters.  Our product portfolio is reinforced by a library of over 2,200 worldwide patents and other intellectual property that we own and control. Together, our industry-leading technology enables us to deliver the highest levels of product performance and integration.Customer RelationshipsGiven our scale and technology leadership, we are engaged with key original equipment manufacturers, smartphone providers and baseband reference design partners.  Our customers value our supply chain strength, our innovative technology and our system engineering expertise resulting in deep customer loyalty. We partner with our customers to support their long-term product road maps and are valued as a system solutions provider rather than just a point product vendor.DiversificationWe are diversifying our business in three areas:  our addressed markets, our customer base and our product offerings to enable stronger and more consistent financial returns. By leveraging core analog and mixed signal technologies, we are expanding our family of solutions to a set of increasingly diverse end markets and customers. We are steadily growing our business beyond just mobile devices (where we support all top-tier manufacturers, including the leading smartphone suppliers and key baseband vendors) into additional high-performance analog markets, including infrastructure, smart energy, wireless networking, automotive and medical.  In these markets we leverage our scale, intellectual property and worldwide distribution network, which span over 2,000 customers and over 2,500 analog components. 6Table of ContentsDelivering Operational ExcellenceWe either vertically integrate our supply chain where we can create a competitive advantage, or enter into alliances and strategic relationships for leading-edge capabilities. This hybrid manufacturing approach allows us to better balance our manufacturing capacity with the demands of the marketplace.  Internally, our capacity utilization remains high and we have therefore been able to maintain margins and achieve our desired return on invested capital on a broader range of revenue.Additionally, we continue to strive to achieve the industry s shortest product design and manufacturing cycle times and highest yields.  The combination of agile, flexible capacity and world-class module manufacturing and scale advantage allows us to achieve a low product cost structure while integrating multiple technologies into highly sophisticated multi-chip modules.Maintaining a Performance Driven CultureWe consider our people and corporate culture to be a major competitive advantage and a key element of our overall strategy.  We create key performance indicators that align employee performance with corporate strategy and link responsibilities with performance measurement. Accountability is paramount and we compensate our employees through a pay-for-performance methodology.  We strive to be an employer-of-choice among peer companies and have created a work environment in which turnover is well below semiconductor industry averages.Generating Superior Operating Results and Shareholder ReturnsWe seek to generate financial returns that are comparable to a highly diversified analog semiconductor company while delivering high growth rates representative of a mobile internet company. Given our product volume and overall utilization we strive to achieve a best-in-class return on investment and operating income to reward shareholders with increasing returns.SKYWORKS  PRODUCT PORTFOLIOOur product portfolio consists of various solutions, including: Amplifiers: the modules that strengthen the signal so that it has sufficient energy to reach a base station Attenuators: circuits that allow a known source of power to be reduced by a predetermined factor (usually expressed as decibels) Circulators/Isolators: ferrite-based components commonly found on the output of high-power amplifiers used to protect receivers in wireless transmission systems DC/DC Converters: an electronic circuit which converts a source of direct current from one voltage level to another Demodulators: a device or an RF block used in receivers to extract the information that has been modulated onto a carrier or from the carrier itself Detectors: devices used to measure and control RF power in wireless systems Diodes: semiconductor devices that pass current in one direction only Directional Couplers: transmission coupling devices for separately sampling the forward or backward wave in a transmission line Diversity Receive Modules: devices used to improve receiver sensitivity in high data rate LTE applications Filters: devices for recovering and separating mixed and modulated data in RF stages Front-End Modules: power amplifiers that are integrated with switches, duplexers, filters and other components to create a single package front-end solution Hybrid: a type of directional coupler used in radio and telecommunications LED Drivers: devices which regulate the current through a light emitting diode or string of diodes for the purpose of creating light Low Noise Amplifiers: devices used to reduce system noise figure in the receive chain Mixers: devices that enable signals to be converted to a higher or lower frequency signal and thereby allowing the signals to be processed more effectively Modulators: devices that take a baseband input signal and output a radio frequency modulated signal Optocouplers/Optoisolators: semiconductor devices that allow signals to be transferred between circuits or systems while ensuring that the circuits or systems are electrically isolated from each other Phase Locked Loops: closed-loop feedback control system that maintains a generated signal in a fixed phase relationship to a reference signal Phase Shifters: designed for use in power amplifier distortion compensation circuits in base station applications Power Dividers/Combiners: utilized to equally split signals into in-phase signals as often found in balanced signal chains and local oscillator distribution networks Receivers: electronic devices that change a radio signal from a transmitter into useful information 7Table of Contents Switches: components that perform the change between the transmit and receive function, as well as the band function for cellular handsets Synthesizers: devices that provide ultra-fine frequency resolution, fast switching speed, and low phase-noise performance Technical Ceramics: polycrystalline oxide materials used for a wide variety of electrical, mechanical, thermal and magnetic applications Voltage Regulators: generate a fixed level which ideally remains constant over varying input voltage or load conditions VCOs/Synthesizers: fully integrated, high performance signal source for high dynamic range transceiversWe believe we possess broad technology capabilities and one of the most complete wireless communications product portfolios in the industry.MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTIONOur products are primarily sold through a direct global Skyworks sales force deployed across all of our major market regions. In some markets we supplement our direct sales effort with independent manufacturers  representatives and distribution partners, some of which are franchised globally with others focused in specific regional markets.Our sales engagement begins at the earliest stages of the design of an existing or potential customer s product. We strive to provide close technical collaboration with our customers and reference design partners at the inception of new programs. These relationships allow our team to facilitate customer-driven solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our intellectual property and product portfolio while providing high value and greatly reducing time-to-market.We believe the technical and complex nature of our products and markets demand an extraordinary commitment to maintain close ongoing relationships with our customers. As such, we strive to expand the scope of our customer relationship to include design, engineering, manufacturing, procurement, logistics and project management. We also employ a collaborative approach in developing these relationships by combining the support of our design teams, applications engineers, manufacturing personnel, sales and marketing staff and senior management.  Lastly, we leverage our customer relationships with cross-selling opportunities across product lines in order to maximize revenue.We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers is paramount to our continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service support. By listening and responding to feedback, we are able to mobilize resources to raise our level of customer satisfaction, improve our ability to anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market dynamics. We are confident that diligently following this path will position Skyworks to participate in numerous opportunities for growth in the future.CUSTOMER CONCENTRATIONA small number of customers historically has accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. In the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015 ( fiscal 2015 ), Foxconn Technology Group (together with its affiliates and other suppliers to a large OEM for use in multiple applications including smartphones, tablets, routers, desktop and notebook computers) constituted more than ten percent of our net revenue.  In the fiscal years ended October 3, 2014 ( fiscal 2014 ) and September 27, 2013 ( fiscal 2013 ), two customers Foxconn Technology Group (together with its affiliates and other suppliers to a large OEM for use in multiple applications including smartphones, tablets, routers, desktop and notebook computers) and Samsung Electronics each constituted more than ten percent of our net revenue.  For further information regarding customer concentrations see Note 16 to Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTSWe own or have a license to use numerous United States and foreign patents and patent applications related to our products and our manufacturing operations and processes. In addition, we own a number of trademarks and service marks applicable to certain of our products and services. We believe that our intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trade secrets and trademarks, is of material importance to our business. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our confidential and proprietary technologies, designs, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property.  Our efforts may not meaningfully protect our intellectual property, or others may independently develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary technologies, designs, devices, algorithms, processes or other intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and effective copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in those jurisdictions. In addition to protecting our intellectual property, we strive to strengthen our intellectual property portfolio to enhance our ability to obtain cross-licenses of intellectual property from others, to obtain access to intellectual property we do not possess and to more favorably resolve potential intellectual property claims against us. Furthermore, we seek to generate  8Table of Contentshigh gross margin revenue through the sale and license of non-core intellectual property and occasionally we purchase intellectual property. Due to rapid technological changes in the industry, we believe establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position depends primarily on our ability to develop new innovative products through the technical competence of our engineering personnel.COMPETITIVE CONDITIONSThe competitive environment in the semiconductor industry is in a constant state of flux, with new products continually emerging and existing products approaching technological obsolescence. We compete on the basis of time-to-market, new product innovation, quality, performance, price, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers and baseband vendors, personnel and protection of our intellectual property. We participate in highly competitive markets against numerous competitors that may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry. Consistent with trends in the industry, we anticipate that average selling prices for our established products will continue to decline at a normalized rate of five to ten percent per year.  As part of our normal course of business, we mitigate the gross margin impact of declining average selling prices with efforts to increase unit volumes, reduce material costs and lower manufacturing costs of existing products and by introducing new and higher value-added products.RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our products and markets demand rapid technological advancements requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and develop new products and technologies. Accordingly, we maintain a high level of research and development activity.  We invested $303.2 million, $252.2 million and $226.3 million in research and development activities during fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively.  The increase in research and development expenses in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 were the result of increases in our internal product designs and product development activity for our target markets in each of these fiscal years. Our research and development activities include new product development and innovations in integrated circuit design, investment in advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes, development of new packaging and test capabilities and research on next generation technologies and product opportunities.  We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those demands.RAW MATERIALSRaw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally available from several sources. It is our policy not to depend on a sole source of supply unless market or other conditions dictate otherwise. However, there are limited situations where we procure certain components and services for our products from single or limited sources, and we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole source suppliers. We purchase materials and services primarily pursuant to individual purchase orders. However, we have entered into certain supply agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other manufacturing related services that specify minimum prices and purchase quantity based on our anticipated future requirements. Such amounts are reviewed and included in our contractual obligations and commitments as required. Certain of our suppliers consign raw materials to us at our manufacturing facilities to which we take title to as needed in our manufacturing process. We believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs with suppliers located around the world.BACKLOG AND INVENTORYOur sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products, with such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us according to our own terms and conditions. We also maintain Skyworks-owned finished goods inventory at certain customer  hub  locations. We do not recognize revenue until these customers consume the Skyworks-owned inventory from these hub locations.  Due to industry practice, which allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels.  The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volume could result in a reduction in revenue and us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONSFederal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our manufacturing operations. Most of our customers have mandated that our products comply with various local, regional and national  green  initiatives initiated by our customers or the locations in which they operate. We believe that our current expenditures for environmental capital investment  9Table of Contentsand remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing environmental protection, and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims, will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial condition. Environmental regulations are subject to change in the future, and accordingly we are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements.SEASONALITYSales of our products are subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of increased demand in end-user consumer applications, such as smartphones and tablet computing devices. The highest demand for our products generally occurs in our first fiscal quarter ending in December and the lowest demand for our handset products generally occurs in our second fiscal quarter ending in March.GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATIONFor information regarding net revenue by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.EMPLOYEESAs of October 2, 2015, we employed approximately 6,700 employees world-wide.  Approximately 770 of our employees in Mexico and 150 employees in Japan are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other union agreements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us present significant risks to our business at this time and may impair our business operations, financial condition or results of operations.We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns.We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets.  Uncertain worldwide economic conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.  Although we believe that the market for our semiconductor products has stabilized to some extent, continued uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. Such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory and restructuring and/or asset impairment charges. Furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year.Our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns.Our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis.  These fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.These factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally smartphones) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, 10Table of Contents our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core intellectual property, and  intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property.The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock.Our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.Significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In fiscal 2015, one customer accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue.  In fiscal 2014, two customers each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue.  For further discussion see Note 16 to Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future.The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including:     the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts,  domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax and fiscal policy decisions, and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates.Public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has and continues to significantly and negatively affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock.  Such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods.In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction.  Our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. Such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price.  If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time.There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. We intend to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors:  our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development; use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions; capital requirements related to stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and 11Table of Contents changes to our business model.Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our dividend payment or declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.Disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Current uncertainties regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the Euro Zone could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power and demand from of our European customers. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, customers or distributors could result in product delays and increased accounts receivable defaults. During the past few years, many governments adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the economic impact of the crisis.  Some of our businesses benefited from these stimulus programs and there can be no assurance that such programs will continue in the future. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.The wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the other analog markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. We compete with international and United States semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including Analog Devices, Avago Technologies, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, Murata Manufacturing, NXP, QUALCOMM, and Qorvo.We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin and market share. Furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramp,  timely new product innovation,  product quality, reliability and performance,  product cost and selling price,  features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications,  compliance with industry standards,  strategic relationships with customers,  access to and protection of intellectual property,  ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. We might not be able to successfully address these factors. Many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets,  brand recognition,  high levels of customer satisfaction,  strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings,  12Table of Contents ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and  strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources.As a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.Our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. If such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price and quality, our business could be adversely impacted.Current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers  purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share.  We may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner.The semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. The successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products.Our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems.We continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth.  We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. If we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers  requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed.In addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time.  Our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products.  Accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products.  We may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive.If Original Equipment Manufacturers, or OEMs, and Original Design Manufacturers, or ODMs, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover, a  design win   13Table of Contentsfrom a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer.Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without these  design wins,  we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs another supplier s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason.  We may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results.Our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. The fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. Because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business.Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors or customers. These disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. In the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our Newbury Park, California or Woburn, Massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. These disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products.After one of our products has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate that product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenue for these products. Furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans.We may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability.Minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. Manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. Our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may  14Table of Contentsrequire us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs.Remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration.In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. In some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. Our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all.We may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims.Although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. The potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts.  If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results.  Furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs.We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products.We rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. There are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including:  the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies.Although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations.  If we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry, which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry.  Further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. We may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers  needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Although we own and operate an assembly and test facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing  15Table of Contentscapacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components.Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. Although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs.  Our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost.  If a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. In connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. We may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. While we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers.  If we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. To the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated.If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business.As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. The competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. We may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other factors, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. Further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the United States, limiting the pool of available talent. We continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy.Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. The loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate.Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business.Our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.In addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer s ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivables could be impaired. 16Table of ContentsWe may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology.The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.Our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions.In addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products.  If such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results.Many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. If the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected.We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers  products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products.If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected.We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. In addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations.  Regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. 17Table of ContentsDespite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. Even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. Furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the United States, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries.We attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. Despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. Furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or in our operations being interrupted. While we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information.We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.A substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the United States, primarily in countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in Kadoma, Japan and Osaka, Japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in Mexicali, Mexico and in Singapore. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, labor market conditions and workers  rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns,  the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction given the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations,  limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and / or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to  18Table of Contentsthe same.Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the United States, South Korea, Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.Some of the countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations.We are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in China.  We expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China. Our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China s continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights.  Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or United States-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. Further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in China may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations.  Changes in tax regulations and/or changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiary in Singapore could have an adverse impact on our operating results.We are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide.  To the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase or our tax saving strategies could be threatened. For example, our subsidiary in Singapore receives a tax holiday that is expected to be effective through September 2020. Changes in the status of this tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years.We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it.To the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all.  Failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us.In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. The capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future.To be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances.Although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities.  We may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. Moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in:     issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders,     large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs,     the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities,     the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition,     amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and 19Table of Contents     the diversion of management s attention from other business concerns.Moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. Additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. If such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings.Increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products.The semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Heightened public focus on sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them.  We expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations.  In addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. For example, the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment ( RoHS ) Directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. Eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. While we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results.Regulations in the United States require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources.  The verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. New climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. In addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the United States Congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. The United States Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. The EPA is developing other climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future.  Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position.We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business.We have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the United States and in foreign countries. Current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. Furthermore, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations.  The amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20Table of ContentsIf wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers may decrease.Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers. In recent years, the Federal Communications Committee ( FCC ) and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. Any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for wireless communications devices that contain our products.Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives.Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally power amplifiers and switches. The production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits is often more costly than the production of silicon circuits. The cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. Further, silicon based designs offer alternatives within the system architecture which are unavailable for gallium arsenide based designs.  Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over silicon-based alternatives. Although we manufacture and sell silicon-based power amplifiers, if we do not continue to offer gallium arsenide products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify the cost differential, our factories could become underutilized adversely affecting our operating results. As a result of underutilization, we could expect the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance.  We may not continue to identify products and markets that require performance attributes of gallium arsenide products.Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us.We have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, no stockholder right to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of Board of Directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision.In addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder  21Table of Contentsor specified stockholder approval requirements are met.Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information by third parties or by Skyworks employees could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers  or licensees  confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.   We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and have executive offices in Irvine, California. For information regarding property, plant and equipment by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The following table sets forth our principal facilities: Location  Owned/Leased Square Footage  Primary FunctionWoburn, Massachusetts Owned 158,000 Corporate headquarters and manufacturingAdamstown, Maryland Owned 121,200 Manufacturing and office spaceNewbury Park, California Owned 111,600 Manufacturing and office spaceIrvine, California Leased 126,900 Design centerNewbury Park, California Leased 114,100 Design centerSan Jose, California Leased 49,800 Design centerCedar Rapids, Iowa Leased 42,900 Design centerSanta Clara, California Leased 42,200 Design centerOsaka, Japan Leased 405,400 Filter manufacturingMexicali, Mexico Owned 380,000 Manufacturing and office spaceSingapore, Singapore Leased 134,000 Filter manufacturingKadoma, Japan Leased 103,000 Filter manufacturing and office spaceOttawa, Ontario Leased 30,900 Design centerSeoul, Korea Leased 22,900 Design centerITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.The information set forth under Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.Not Applicable. 22Table of ContentsPART IIITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.MARKET INFORMATION AND DIVIDENDSOur common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  SWKS . The following table sets forth the range of high and low closing prices for our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, and the cash dividends announced per share of common stock for the periods indicated. The number of stockholders of record of Skyworks  common stock as of November 13, 2015 was 21,441.  On November 5, 2015, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per share of common stock, payable on December 10, 2015 to stockholders of record as of November 19, 2015. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those relating to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, debt issuance, changes in federal and state income tax law and changes to our business model. ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIESThe following table provides information regarding repurchases of common stock made during the fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2015:_________________________(1)The stock repurchase program was approved by the Board of Directors on November 11, 2014, authorizes the repurchase of up to $300.0 million of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.  The share repurchase program was scheduled to expire on November 11, 2016.(2) Represents shares repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under restricted stock agreements.  (3) 400,000 shares were repurchased at an average price of $93.76 per share as part of our stock repurchase program and 2,945 shares were withheld for tax obligations under restricted stock agreements with an average price of $93.57. (4) 850,000 shares were repurchased at an average price of $86.59 per share as part of our stock repurchase program and 286 shares were withheld for tax obligations under restricted stock agreements with an average price of $91.25. On November 10, 2015, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $400.0 million of its common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.  The repurchase program is set to expire on November 10, 2017; however, it may be suspended, discontinued or extended by the Board of Directors at any time prior to its expiration on  23Table of ContentsNovember 10, 2017.  This authorized stock repurchase program replaced in its entirety the November 11, 2014 stock repurchase program.  These repurchases have been and will be funded with the Company s working capital.ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.The information set forth below for the five years ended October 2, 2015, is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. Our fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30.  Fiscal 2015, 2013, 2012, and 2011 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on October 2, 2015, September 27, 2013, September 28, 2012 and September 30, 2011, respectively.  Fiscal 2014 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on October 3, 2014. The following table represents the selected financial data (in millions, except per share data): 24Table of ContentsITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially and adversely from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to those described below and in Item 1A  Risk Factors  and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.OVERVIEWWe, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.  Our key customers include Arris, Bose, Cisco, Dell, Ericsson, Foxconn, Fujitsu, General Electric, Google, Honeywell, HTC, Huawei, Landis & Gyr, Lenovo, LG Electronics, Microsoft, Nest, Netgear, Northrop Grumman, Rockwell Collins, Samsung, Sonos, and ZTE.  Our competitors include Analog Devices, Avago Technologies, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, Murata Manufacturing, NXP, QUALCOMM, and Qorvo.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSFISCAL YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 2, 2015, OCTOBER 3, 2014, AND SEPTEMBER 27, 2013.The following table sets forth the results of our operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue:GENERALDuring the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015, the following key factors contributed to our overall results of operations, financial position and cash flows: Net revenue increased to approximately $3.3 billion, an increase of 42% as compared to the prior fiscal year.  This increase in revenue was primarily related to our continued growth as smartphones displace traditional cellular phones, increased strength in emerging markets due to the adoption of 3G and 4G technologies, increases in tablet computing and the expansion of our analog product portfolio to address additional content within the handset and tablet markets as well as new vertical markets including medical, automotive, military and industrial.     25Table of Contents Operating margin increased by 670 basis points to 31.4% for fiscal 2015 from 24.7% in fiscal 2014.  The increase in operating margin was primarily related to higher revenue and the leveraging impact on our gross margin and operating expenses partially offset by higher employee compensation expenses. As a result of the aforementioned factors, overall profitability increased significantly from fiscal 2014 with year-over-year increases in net income and diluted earnings per share of 74% and 72%, respectively. Our ending cash and cash equivalents balance increased 30% to $1,044 million in fiscal 2015 from $806 million in fiscal 2014.  This was the result of a 29% increase in cash from operations to $993 million in fiscal 2015 from $772 million in fiscal 2014 due to higher net income partially offset by changes in working capital.  In addition, we invested $430 million on capital expenditures associated with plant expansions in Mexico and Japan, $237 million to repurchase over 2.9 million shares of our common stock, and $123 million in cash dividend payments. NET REVENUEWe market and sell our products directly to original equipment manufacturers of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors. We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.  The $966.9 million increase in revenue in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily driven by our ability to capture a higher share of the increasing RF and analog content per device due to more complex smartphones continuing to displace traditional cellular phones, increased strength in emerging markets due to the adoption of 3G and 4G technologies, the increasing popularity of tablet computing and wearables, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including medical, automotive, military and industrial.  The $499.5 million increase in revenue in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily driven by our ability to capture a higher share of the increasing RF and analog content per device due to more complex smartphones continuing to displace traditional cellular phones, increased strength in emerging markets due to the adoption of 3G and 4G technologies, the increasing popularity of tablet computing, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including medical, automotive, military and industrial. For information regarding net revenue by geographic region and customer concentration, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. GROSS PROFITGross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold. Our cost of goods sold consists primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and share-based compensation expense) associated with product manufacturing.  Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry. Consistent with trends in the industry, we anticipate that average selling prices for our established products will continue to decline at a normalized rate of five to ten percent per year.  As part of our normal course of business, we mitigate the gross margin impact of declining average selling prices with efforts to increase unit volumes, reduce material costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies, lower manufacturing costs of existing products and by introducing new and higher value-added products. 26Table of ContentsGross profit was $531.8 million greater in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014.  The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of higher unit volumes, lower overall per unit material and manufacturing costs with an aggregate gross profit benefit of $687.8 million.  These benefits were partially offset by the erosion of average selling price, unfavorable changes in product mix and other costs that combined to negatively impact gross profit by $156.0 million.  As a result of these impacts, gross profit margin increased to 47.7% of net revenue for fiscal 2015.Gross profit was $256.1 million greater in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013.  The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of higher unit volumes, lower overall per unit material and manufacturing costs with an aggregate gross profit benefit of $273.5 million.  These benefits were partially offset by the erosion of average selling price, unfavorable changes in product mix and other costs which combined to negatively impact gross profit by $17.4 million.  As a result of these impacts, gross profit margin increased to 44.6% of net revenue for fiscal 2014.RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTResearch and development expenses consist primarily of direct personnel costs including share-based compensation expense, costs for pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, masks, engineering prototypes and design tool costs.The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 is primarily related to increased employee compensation expense, including share-based compensation, of approximately $26.7 million and increased product development and other related expenses of approximately $24.3 million.  Research and development expense decreased as a percentage of net revenue due to the aforementioned increase in net revenue. The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 is primarily related to increased compensation expense, including share-based compensation of $19.1 million, enhanced development activity, related services and other costs of $6.8 million.  Research and development expense decreased as a percentage of net revenue due to the aforementioned increase in net revenue. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE    Selling, general and administrative expenses include legal and related costs, accounting, treasury, human resources, information systems, customer service, bad debt expense, sales commissions, share-based compensation expense, advertising, marketing, costs associated with business combinations completed or contemplated during the period or prior periods and other costs.The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily related to increased compensation expense including share-based compensation, and legal expenses related to acquisitions completed and contemplated during the period. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of net revenue due to the aforementioned increase in net revenue.The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily related to increased compensation expense including share-based compensation of $8.1 million, legal expenses related to ongoing litigation of $3.9 million and acquisition related expenses of $3.4 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of net revenue due to the aforementioned increase in net revenue. 27Table of ContentsAMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLESThe increase in amortization expense for fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to the intangible assets that were acquired in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, partially offset by the end of the estimated useful lives of certain fully amortized intangible assets that were acquired in prior fiscal years.Amortization expense decreased in fiscal 2014 when compared to the prior fiscal year due to the end of the estimated useful lives of certain fully amortized intangible assets acquired in prior fiscal years.  This decrease was partially offset by the amortization of intangibles acquired in the Panasonic transaction.PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES     The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2015 of 22.0% was less than the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to benefits of 11.8% related to foreign earnings taxed at a rate less than the United States federal rate, benefits of 1.9% related to a domestic production activities deduction, and benefits of 1.5% related to the recognition of federal research and development tax credits, partially offset by income tax rate expense impact of 2.5% related to a change in our tax reserves.  As a result of the enactment of the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014, which retroactively reinstated and extended the research and development tax credit, $11.0 million of tax credits that were earned in fiscal 2014, our tax rate was reduced during fiscal 2015.  We operate under a tax holiday in Singapore, which is effective through September 30, 2020. This tax holiday is conditioned upon our compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds in Singapore.  The impact of the tax holiday decreased the taxes we owe in Singapore by $26.6 million and $12.6 million for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively.  This resulted in tax benefits of $0.14 and $0.07 of diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively.As of October 2, 2015, the Company s federal income tax returns for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012 ( fiscal 2012 ) and fiscal 2013 were under examination by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ). The Company expects the IRS examination to close in the first quarter of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016 ( fiscal 2016 ) and does not expect the results of this audit to have an adverse impact on its tax expense. In addition, various state and international returns are under examination by their respective taxing authorities. The Company does not expect the results of these audits to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2014 of 19.0% was less than the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to benefits of 13.7% related to foreign earnings taxed at a rate less than the United States federal rate, benefits of 1.9% related to a domestic production activities deduction, and benefits of 3.5% from the settlement of the IRS audit of our fiscal 2011 income tax return, partially offset by income tax rate expense impact of 2.0% related to a change in our tax reserves.   28Table of ContentsLIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESCash Flow from Operating Activities:Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities.  For fiscal 2015, we generated $992.8 million in cash flow from operations, an increase of $220.4 million when compared to $772.4 million generated in fiscal 2014.  The increase in cash flow from operating activities during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015 was related to higher net income combined with a net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities and the effects of non-cash depreciation and share-based compensation.  Specifically, the changes in operating assets and liabilities that were sources of cash were: $106.0 million related to tax liabilities, payroll related accruals and other accrued expenses, $90.5 million in accounts payable related to the timing of vendor payments, and $3.6 million in changes in inventory.  These sources of cash were offset by uses of cash of $222.2 million in accounts receivable due to the timing of customer collections and $39.2 million primarily related to pre-paid manufacturing costs. Cash Flow from Investing Activities:Cash flow from investing activities consists of capital expenditures, cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired and the sale and maturity of investments.  Cash flow used in investing activities was $454.7 million during fiscal 2015, compared to $357.1 million during fiscal 2014.  The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to the expansion of our assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico, the construction of a new filter fabrication facility in Osaka, Japan, the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support increased production for the operations in Japan and Singapore of the joint venture with Panasonic, referred to as FilterCo, and to a lesser extent, our wafer fabrication facilities in the United States.  Cash flows from investing activities for the twelve months ended October 2, 2015 also include the final working capital payment associated with the FilterCo acquisition as well as cash paid for an immaterial business combination net of cash, during the period.    Cash Flow from Financing Activities:Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash transactions related to debt and equity.  During fiscal 2015, we had net cash outflows of $300.3 million, compared to $120.6 million in fiscal 2014.  During fiscal 2015 we had the following significant uses of cash: $237.3 million related to our repurchase of approximately 2.9 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors on November 11, 2014; $123.1 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock; and $54.2 million related to the minimum statutory payroll tax withholdings upon vesting of employee performance and restricted stock awards.These uses of cash were partially offset by the excess tax benefit from stock option exercises of $57.3 million and net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $57.0 million during fiscal 2015.Liquidity:Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,043.6 million at October 2, 2015, representing an increase of $237.8 million from October 3, 2014.  The increase resulted from $992.8 million in cash generated from operations which was partially offset by $430.1 million in capital expenditures primarily for increased production capacity in Mexico and Japan, $237.3 million used to repurchase 2.9 million shares of stock, and $123.1 million in cash dividend payments during fiscal 2015.  Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic  29Table of Contentsinvestments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.  Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits with original maturities of 90 days or less and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations.Our cash and cash equivalent balance of $1,043.6 million at October 2, 2015 consisted of $657.2 million held domestically and $386.4 million held by foreign subsidiaries. Of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries at October 2, 2015, $340.8 million is considered by us to be indefinitely reinvested and would be subject to material tax effects if repatriated.  The remaining $45.6 million of foreign cash and cash equivalents can be repatriated without any tax consequences.  OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSAll significant contractual obligations are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements.  We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in SEC Regulation S-K-303(a)(4)(ii).  CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWSSet forth below is a summary of our contractual payment obligations related to our operating leases, other commitments and long-term liabilities at October 2, 2015 (in millions):_________________________(1)Other long-term liabilities include our gross unrecognized tax benefits, as well as executive deferred compensation, which are both classified as beyond five years due to the uncertain nature of the liabilities.(2)Other commitments consist of liabilities related to business combinations, contractual license and royalty payments, and other purchase obligations.  See Note 11 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATESThe discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Securities and Exchange Commission has defined critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and which require our most difficult, complex or subjective judgments or estimates. Based on this definition, we believe our critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangibles, business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies and income taxes.  Note 2 of Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the judgments and estimates underlying all of our accounting policies. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures, and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on our best judgments using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment, which we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We adjust such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board s ( FASB ) Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 605 Revenue Recognition net of estimated reserves.  Our revenue reserves contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the value of future credits to customers for price protection and product returns (stock rotation) for products sold to certain electronic component distributors.  Our estimates  30Table of Contentsof the amount and timing of the reserves is based primarily on historical experience and specific contractual arrangements.  Historically, we have not experienced material differences between our estimated sales reserves and actual results.Inventory Valuation.  We value our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value.  Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory are established on a quarterly basis and are based on a detailed analysis of forecasted demand in relation to on-hand inventory, saleability of our inventory, general market conditions, and product life cycles.  Once reserves are established, write-downs of inventory are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of inventory.  Our reserves contain uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding historical experience, forecasted demand and technological obsolescence.  Changes in actual demand or market conditions could adversely impact our reserve calculations.  Historically, we have not experienced material differences between our estimated inventory reserves and actual results.Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. We evaluate goodwill and other purchased intangible assets for impairment annually on the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter and whenever events or circumstances arise that may indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangibles may not be recoverable. The impairment evaluation of goodwill involves comparing the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit.  We use the market price of the Company s stock adjusted for a market premium to calculate the fair value of the reporting unit.  If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, then it is concluded that no goodwill impairment has occurred.  If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step is required to measure the possible goodwill impairment loss.  In the second step, if required, we would use a discounted cash flow methodology to determine the implied fair value of our goodwill.  The implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill would then be compared to the carrying value of the goodwill.  If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, we would recognize a loss equal to the excess.Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to items such as: estimated control premiums, discount rate, future cash flows, the profitability of future business strategies and useful lives.  Historically, we have not experienced material differences between our impairment calculations and actual results.Business Combinations. We apply significant estimates and judgments in order to determine the fair value of the identified tangible and intangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and goodwill recognized in business combinations.  The value of all assets and liabilities are recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date using a market participant approach. In measuring the fair value, we utilize a number of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and/ or cost approach.  The valuation of the identifiable assets and liabilities includes assumptions such as projected revenue, royalty rates, weighted average cost of capital, discount rates and estimated useful lives.  These assessments can be significantly affected by our judgments.  Historically, we have not experienced material differences in our assigned values and actual results.  Share-Based Compensation. We have a share-based compensation plan which includes non-qualified stock options, restricted and performance share awards and units, employee stock purchase plan and other special share-based awards.  Note 9 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K details our current share-based compensation programs.  We determine the fair value of our non-qualified stock options at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes options-pricing model.  For restricted and performance based awards and units, we determine the fair value based on the grant date fair value of the Company s stock based on the most probable outcome of the underlying performance metric, as applicable.  For more complex performance awards with market-based conditions we employ a Monte Carlo simulation and determine the fair value based on the most probable outcome of the performance metric.  Our determination of fair value of share-based items on the date of grant contains assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables including, but not limited to: our expected stock price volatility over the term of the award, correlation coefficients, risk-free rate, the expected life of the award, forfeiture rates, and a dividend yield with compensation expense recognized over the requisite service period of the underlying award.  Management periodically evaluates these assumptions and updates share-based compensation expense accordingly.  Historically, we have not experienced material differences in our estimates and actual results.Loss Contingencies.  We record an estimate for loss contingencies such as a legal proceeding or claims if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  We disclose material loss contingencies if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred.Our loss contingency analysis contains uncertainties because it requires management to assess the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of potential loss.  Historically, we have not experienced material differences between our estimates and actual results. 31Table of ContentsIncome Taxes.  We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between tax and financial reporting.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.  Significant management judgment is required in developing our provision for income taxes, including the determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowances that might be required against the deferred tax assets.  ASC 740 Income Taxes ( ASC 740 ) clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with GAAP. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  This statement also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in the interim periods and disclosure.The application of tax laws and regulations to calculate our tax liabilities is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty in a multitude of jurisdictions.  Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations, and court rulings.  We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due.  We record an amount as an estimate of probable additional income tax liability at the largest amount that we feel is more likely than not, based upon the technical merits of the position, to be sustained upon audit by the relevant tax authority.  We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets that we feel are more likely than not to not be realized.  Historically, we have not experienced material differences between our estimates and actual results.OTHER MATTERSInflation did not have a material impact on our results of operations during the three-year period ended October 2, 2015.ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality investment risk, interest rate risk and exchange rate risk as described below.Investment and Interest Rate RiskOur exposure to interest rate and general market risks related principally to our investment portfolio and consisted of the following (in millions): October 2, 2015Cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificate of deposits and money market funds)$1,043.6Available for sale securities (auction rate securities) at carrying value2.3Total$1,045.9The main objectives of our investment activities are the liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material as our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings that reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. Based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact to income before taxes.  We own $3.2 million of par value auction rate securities that are currently valued at $2.3 million as of October 2, 2015.  In the event that the market conditions change in the future and our auction rate security becomes fully and permanently impaired, the impact to income before income taxes would be the par value of the auction rate security of approximately $3.2 million as of October 2, 2015.  32Table of ContentsGiven the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that market, investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. Exchange Rate RiskSubstantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results.  A small percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies.  Exchange rate volatility could negatively or positively impact those operating costs.  For the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014 and September 27, 2013, the Company had foreign exchange gains/(losses) of $1.7 million, $0.1 million and $(1.1) million, respectively.  Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete.  Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies.  The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. The Company s practice is to hedge a portion of its material foreign exchange exposures. However, the Company may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. The Company currently holds foreign currency put and call options on the Japanese yen that offset the cash flow impact related to the purchase option of the remaining 34% interest of FilterCo. Changes in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and United States dollar had a de minimis impact to income before taxes during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015. 33Table of ContentsITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are included herewith:(1)Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmPage  35   (2)Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013Page  36   (3)Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013 Page  37   (4)Consolidated Balance Sheets at October 2, 2015 and October 3, 2014Page  38   (5)Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013Page  39   (6)Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013Page  40   (7)Notes to Consolidated Financial StatementsPage  41 through  62 34Table of ContentsREPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMThe Board of Directors and StockholdersSkyworks Solutions, Inc.:We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and subsidiaries as of October 2, 2015 and October 3, 2014, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders  equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 2, 2015. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15 of the 2015 Form 10-K. We also have audited Skyworks Solutions, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of October 2, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Skyworks Solutions, Inc. s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule, and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and subsidiaries as of October 2, 2015 and October 3, 2014, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 2, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also in our opinion, Skyworks Solutions, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 2, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)./s/ KPMG LLPBoston, MassachusettsNovember 24, 2015 35Table of ContentsSKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(In millions, except per share amounts) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 36Table of ContentsSKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME(In millions) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 37Table of ContentsSKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS(In millions, except per share amounts)See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 38Table of ContentsSKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(In millions) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 39Table of ContentsSKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY (In millions) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 40Table of ContentsNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS1.     DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATIONSkyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ( Skyworks  or the  Company ) is empowering the wireless networking revolution. The Company s highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets. The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date of issuance of the audited consolidated financial statements. 2.     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIESPRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATIONAll Skyworks subsidiaries are included in the Company s consolidated financial statements and all intercompany balances are eliminated in consolidation.FISCAL YEARThe Company s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30.  Fiscal years 2015 and 2013 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on October 2, 2015 and September 27, 2013, respectively.  Fiscal year 2014 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on October 3, 2014.  USE OF ESTIMATESThe preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, comprehensive income and accumulated other comprehensive loss during the reporting period. The Company evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment.  Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, bad debt allowance, intangible assets associated with business combinations and overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing. Actual results could differ significantly from these estimates.REVENUE RECOGNITIONRevenue from product sales is recognized when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the price to the buyer is fixed and determinable, delivery and transfer of title have occurred in accordance with the shipping terms specified in the arrangement with the customer and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue from license fees and intellectual property is recognized when due and payable, and all other criteria of the FASB s ASC 605 Revenue Recognition, have been met.  The Company ships product on consignment to certain customers and only recognizes revenue when the customer notifies the Company that the inventory has been consumed.  Revenue recognition is deferred in all instances where the earnings process is incomplete. Certain product sales are made to electronic component distributors under agreements allowing for price protection and/or a right of return (stock rotation) on unsold products. Reserves for sales returns and allowances are recorded based on historical experience or pursuant to contractual arrangements necessitating revenue reserves.CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTSThe Company invests excess cash in time deposits, certificate of deposits and money market funds which primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations, and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations.  The Company considers highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less when purchased as cash equivalents. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTSThe Company maintains general allowances for doubtful accounts related to potential losses that could arise due to customers  inability to make required payments. These reserves require management to apply judgment in deriving these estimates.  In addition, the Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial condition and if it becomes aware of any specific receivables which may be uncollectable, they perform additional analysis including, but not limited to factors such as a customer s  41Table of Contentscredit worthiness, intent and ability to pay and overall financial position and reserves are recorded if deemed necessary. If the data the Company uses to calculate the allowance for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and results of operations could be materially affected.INVESTMENTSThe Company accounts for its investment in marketable securities in accordance with ASC 320-Investments-Debt and Equity Securities, and classifies them as  available for sale .  Available for sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized holding gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income.  Gains or losses are included in earnings in the period in which they are realized. DERIVATIVESThe Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage market risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on specific transactions that occur in the normal course of business.  The criteria the Company uses for designating an instrument as a hedge is the instrument s effectiveness in risk reduction.  To receive hedge accounting treatment, hedges must be highly effective at offsetting the impact of the hedge transaction.  All derivatives, whether designated as hedging relationships or not, are recorded at fair value and are included as either an asset or liability on the balance sheet.   The Company uses a combination of option contracts to offset the foreign currency impact of certain transactions.  The terms of these derivatives typically match the timing of the underlying transaction with the initial fair value, if any, and subsequent gains or losses on the change in fair value being reported in earnings within the same income statement line as the impact of the foreign currency transaction due to changes in the currency value.     FAIR VALUEASC 820 Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures, defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principle or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  Applicable accounting guidance provides a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that prioritize the use of observable inputs over the use of unobservable inputs, when such observable inputs are available. The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are as follows:   Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data. Level 3 - Fair value is derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable, including assumptions and judgments made by the Company. It is the Company s policy to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when developing fair value measurements.  When available, the Company uses quoted market prices to measure fair value.  If market prices are not available, the Company is required to make judgments about assumptions market participants would use to estimate the fair value of a financial instrument. The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in three levels, based on the market in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value.  It recognizes transfers within the fair value hierarchy at the end of the fiscal quarter in which the change in circumstances that caused the transfer occurred.The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to short-term maturities of these assets and liabilities. INVENTORYInventory is stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out basis. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENTProperty, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation, with significant renewals and betterments being capitalized and retired equipment written off in the respective periods. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. 42Table of ContentsDepreciation is calculated using the straight-line method.  Estimated useful lives used for depreciation purposes range from five to thirty years for buildings and improvements and three to ten years for machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the lesser of the economic life or the life of the associated lease.VALUATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETSDefinite lived intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization.  Amortization is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  Carrying values for long-lived assets and definite lived intangible assets, which exclude goodwill, are reviewed for possible impairment as circumstances warrant. Factors considered important that could result in an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to expected, historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of assets or the Company s business strategy, or significant negative industry or economic trends. In addition, impairment reviews are conducted at the judgment of management whenever asset/asset group values are deemed to be unrecoverable relative to future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by that particular asset/asset group. The determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of an asset/asset group and its eventual disposition. Such estimates require management to exercise judgment and make assumptions regarding factors such as future revenue streams, operating expenditures, cost allocation and asset utilization levels, all of which collectively impact future operating performance. The Company s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to its business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value of an asset/asset group, the Company would recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group.GOODWILL AND INDEFINITE INTANGIBLE ASSETSGoodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are tested at least annually as of the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter for impairment in accordance with the provisions of ASC 350 Intangibles-Goodwill and Other ( ASC 350 ) or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist during the fiscal year. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives comprise an insignificant portion of the total book value of the Company s intangible assets. The Company assesses its conclusion regarding reporting units in conjunction with the annual goodwill impairment test, and has determined that it has one reporting unit for the purposes of allocating and testing goodwill under ASC 350. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the Company s impairment analysis compares its fair value to its net book value to determine if there is an indicator of impairment. To determine fair value, ASC 350 allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states that quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value and shall be used as the basis for measuring fair value where available. In the Company s calculation of fair value, it considers the closing price of its common stock on the selected testing date, the number of shares of its common stock outstanding and other marketplace activity such as a related control premium. If the calculated fair value is determined to be less than the book value of the Company, then the Company performs step two of the impairment analysis. Step two of the analysis compares the implied fair value of the Company s goodwill to its book value.  If the book value of the Company s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to that excess. In step two of the Company s annual impairment analysis, if such a step is required, the Company primarily uses the income approach methodology of valuation, which includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies, to determine the implied fair value of the Company s goodwill. Significant management judgment is required in preparing the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. Should step two of the impairment test be required, the estimates management would use would be consistent with the plans and estimates that the Company uses to manage its business. In addition to testing goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, factors such as unexpected adverse business conditions, deterioration of the economic climate, unanticipated technological changes, adverse changes in the competitive environment, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts, are considered by management and may signal that the Company s intangible assets including goodwill have possibly become impaired and result in additional interim impairment testing.BUSINESS COMBINATIONSThe Company uses the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations in accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations, and recognizes assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair values on the date acquired. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets. The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are determined based upon the Company s valuation using a combination of market, income or cost approaches. The valuation involves making significant estimates and assumptions which are based on detailed financial models including the projection of future cash flows, the weighted average cost of capital and any cost savings that are expected to be derived in the future.  43Table of ContentsSHARE-BASED COMPENSATIONThe Company applies ASC 718 Compensation-Stock Compensation ( ASC 718 ) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including non-qualified employee stock options, share awards and units, employee stock purchase plan and other special share-based awards based on estimated fair values. The fair value of share-based payment awards is amortized over the requisite service period, which is defined as the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for an award.  The Company uses a straight-line attribution method for all grants that include only a service condition. Awards with both performance and service conditions are expensed over the service period for each separately vesting tranche.Share-based compensation expense recognized during the period includes actual expense on vested awards and expense associated with unvested awards that has been reduced for estimated forfeitures.  ASC 718 requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.  The Company reviews actual forfeitures at least annually. The Company determines the fair value of share-based option awards based on the Company s closing stock price on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes options pricing model.  Under the Black-Scholes model, a number of highly complex and subjective variables are used including, but not limited to: the expected stock price volatility over the term of the award, the risk-free rate, the expected life of the award and dividend yield.  The determination of fair value of restricted and certain performance share awards and units is based on the value of the Company s stock on the date of grant with performance awards and units adjusted for the actual outcome of the underlying performance condition. For more complex performance awards including units with market-based performance conditions the Company employs a Monte Carlo simulation valuation method to calculate the fair value of the awards based on the most likely outcome.  Under the Monte Carlo simulation, a number of highly complex and subjective variables are used including, but not limited to: the expected stock price volatility over the term of the award, a correlation coefficient, the risk-free rate, the expected life of the award, and dividend yield. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTSResearch and development costs are expensed as incurred. LOSS CONTINGENCIESThe Company records its best estimates of a loss contingency when it is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  When a range of loss can be reasonably estimated with no best estimate in the range, the minimum estimated liability related to the claim is recorded.  As additional information becomes available, the Company assesses the potential liability related to the potential pending loss contingency and revises its estimates.  Loss contingencies are disclosed if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss may have been incurred and legal costs are expensed as incurred. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANSThe Company accounts for the benefit pension plan in accordance with the provisions of ASC 715 Compensation-Retirement Benefits.   In accordance with the provisions, funded status of benefit pension plans (that is the balance of plan assets and benefit obligations) are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet and pension liability adjustments, net of tax, are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. The Company determines discount rates considering the rates of return on high-quality fixed income investments, and the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets by considering the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets.  Decreases in discount rates lead to increases in benefit obligations that, in turn, could lead to an increase in amortization cost through amortization of actuarial gain or loss.  A decline in the market values of plan assets will generally result in a lower expected rate of return, which would result in an increase of future retirement benefit costs.FOREIGN CURRENCIES The Company s primary functional currency is the United States dollar.  Gains and losses related to foreign currency transactions, conversion of foreign denominated cash balances and translation of foreign currency financial statements are included in current results.  For certain foreign entities that utilize local currencies as their functional currency, the resulting unrealized translation gains and losses are reported as currency translation adjustment through other comprehensive income (loss) for each period.  44Table of ContentsINCOME TAXESThe Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. This method also requires the recognition of future tax benefits such as net operating loss carry forwards, to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.The carrying value of the Company s net deferred tax assets assumes the Company will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in its consolidated statement of operations. Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assesses the adequacy of the valuation allowance quarterly. Likewise, in the event the Company were to determine that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income or decrease the carrying value of goodwill in the period such determination was made.The determination of recording or releasing tax valuation allowances is made, in part, pursuant to an assessment performed by management regarding the likelihood that the Company will generate future taxable income against which benefits of its deferred tax assets may or may not be realized. This assessment requires management to exercise significant judgment and make estimates with respect to its ability to generate revenues, gross profits, operating income and taxable income in future periods. Amongst other factors, management must make assumptions regarding overall business and semiconductor industry conditions, operating efficiencies, the Company s ability to develop products to its customers  specifications, technological change, the competitive environment and changes in regulatory requirements which may impact its ability to generate taxable income and, in turn, realize the value of its deferred tax assets.The calculation of the Company s tax liabilities includes addressing uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations and is based on the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.The Company recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other tax jurisdictions based on its recognition threshold and measurement attribute of whether it is more likely than not that the positions the Company has taken in tax filings will be sustained upon tax audit, and the extent to which, additional taxes would be due. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period in which it is determined the liabilities are no longer necessary. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result.  The Company recognizes any interest or penalties, if incurred, on any unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.      RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSIn August 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements - Going Concern, which requires management to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity s ability to continue as a going concern and provide related footnote disclosures. The guidance is effective for the first quarter of our fiscal year 2017. Early adoption is permitted for financial statements that have not been previously issued. The standard allows for either a full retrospective or modified retrospective transition method. The Company does not expect this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements upon adoption. In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-02, Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis, which is intended to improve targeted areas of the consolidation guidance for legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures. The amendments in the ASU affect the consolidation evaluation for reporting organizations and simplify the current GAAP requirements by reducing the number of consolidation models. The guidance is effective for the first quarter of our fiscal year 2016. The Company does not expect this standard to have a material impact on its statement of operations, statement of cash flows or its financial position.In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-04, Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): which amends the accounting guidance that provides a practical expedient to companies whose fiscal year end does not coincide with a calendar month-end. The practical expedient permits the entity to measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations using the calendar month-end that is closest to the entity s fiscal year-end and apply the practical expedient consistently from year to year. This guidance will be  45Table of Contentseffective prospectively for the first quarter of our fiscal year 2017, with early application permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Inventory Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory. ASU 2015-11 requires inventory to be subsequently measured using the lower of cost or net realizable value, thereby eliminating the market value approach. Net realizable value is defined as the  estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.  This guidance will be effective for the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2017 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that this guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures.In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), that outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. The guidance will be effective for the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted, but not before the first quarter of our fiscal year 2018. The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application. We have not yet selected a transition method and are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.There have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements that are of significance, or potential significance, to the Company.3.    BUSINESS COMBINATIONSOn August 1, 2014, the Company entered into a joint venture, referred to as FilterCo, with Panasonic with respect to the design, manufacture and sale of Panasonic s SAW and TC SAW filter products. The Company acquired a controlling  66% interest in FilterCo for $148.5 million, subject to certain working capital adjustments with the right to acquire from Panasonic (the  purchase option ) the remaining  34% interest in FilterCo upon the second anniversary of the acquisition. As a result of the purchase option, the Company consolidates 100% of FilterCo s operations. During the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015, Panasonic identified and contributed an additional $7.5 million of fixed assets related to filter production as well as additional employee related liabilities to FilterCo. The Company and Panasonic agreed upon these additional amounts during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015, and accordingly the working capital adjustment was increased by $7.2 million, which resulted in the total fair value of net assets acquired for FilterCo increasing to $240.4 million. The Company finalized and paid Panasonic $18.1 million related to the working capital adjustment for the FilterCo acquisition during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015. On April 1, 2015, Panasonic formally transferred all applicable employees to FilterCo, including employee benefits such as their pension obligation and associated assets as discussed in Note 10, Employee Benefit Plans, Pensions and Other Retirement Benefits in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company subsequently performed a valuation of the pension plan and finalized the purchase accounting, resulting in an increase in goodwill recognized in the transaction during the measurement period.  On May 22, 2015, the Company acquired 100% of Quantance Inc. ( Quantance ), for $6.6 million in cash and contingent consideration, subject to a working capital adjustment. The possible outcome of the total contingent consideration ranges from zero to $30.0 million and is based on the achievement of specific revenue goals over two twelve-month periods ending September 30, 2016, and September 30, 2017, respectively. The acquisition enhances the Company s leadership position in front-end solutions by securing a rich portfolio of fundamental envelope-tracking and power efficiency patents. The acquisition had an immaterial impact on the Company s consolidated balance sheet and results of operations and accordingly, the disclosures required per the business combination topic of the Accounting Standards Codification have been excluded from this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Proposed Acquisition of PMC-SierraOn October 5, 2015, the Company, and its newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary, Amherst Acquisition, Inc. ( Merger Sub ), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the  Merger Agreement ) with PMC-Sierra, Inc. or PMC, providing for, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, the acquisition of PMC by the Company at a price of $10.50 per share in cash through the merger of Merger Sub into PMC (the  Merger ), with PMC surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. On October 29, 2015, the Company and PMC entered into an Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger (the  Amended and Restated Merger Agreement ), which amended and restated in its entirety the Merger Agreement. 46Table of ContentsPursuant to the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement, the Company and PMC agreed to amend the terms of the Merger Agreement to, among other things, increase the per-share Merger Consideration from $10.50 to $11.60 in cash.  On November 23, 2015, PMC delivered to the Company a notice terminating the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement.  On November 24, 2015, PMC paid the Company a termination fee of $88.5 million pursuant to the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement.4.    FAIR VALUEAssets and Liabilities Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as our financial instruments and derivatives.  There have been no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 assets or liabilities during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015.    Level 3 assets include an auction rate security that is classified as available for sale and recorded in other long-term assets, scheduled to mature in 2017. Due to the illiquid market for this security the Company has classified the carrying value as a Level 3 asset with the difference between the par and carrying value being categorized as a temporary loss and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Following August 1, 2016, the two-year anniversary of the Company entering into the joint venture with Panasonic, the purchase option can be exercised by either the Company or Panasonic and although the settlement amount of the purchase option is fixed, it contains a foreign exchange adjustment ( foreign exchange collar ). In the event the exchange rate between the United States dollar and the Japanese yen fluctuates outside of a predetermined range upon the exercise of the purchase option, the total amount the Company owes to Panasonic can change. This feature was intended for the parties to share in foreign exchange exposure outside of this predetermined range. The Company calculated the present value of this obligation as of August 1, 2014, the date the joint venture was formed, and included that amount in its preliminary determination of goodwill using unobservable inputs and management judgment, therefore categorizing the obligation as a level 3 liability. The difference between the calculated present value and the fixed settlement amount is being accreted to earnings ratably over the remaining purchase option period. The carrying value of this liability is included in other short-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet as of October 2, 2015. The Company holds currency call and put options ( foreign currency options ) that are intended to hedge the potential cash exposure related to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and Japanese yen related to the foreign exchange collar. The Company nets the fair value of the foreign currency options and the fair value of the foreign exchange collar separately as either a short-term asset or liability with the total change in fair value being recorded to earnings each period. The Company measures the fair value of these derivatives using current spot rates and assumptions such as yield curves and option volatilities. As of October 2, 2015, these derivatives have been netted on the consolidated balance sheet and classified as Level 3 assets and liabilities accordingly. The net change in fair value had a de minimis impact on the consolidated results. The Company has classified its contingent consideration related to its business combination with Quantance during the period ended October 2, 2015, as a Level 3 liability. The contingent consideration liability was computed on expected revenue to be generated by the acquired enterprise s products using a weighted average probability income approach. Revenue assumptions used in the calculation require significant management judgment. Accordingly, the liability is classified as Level 3. The Company will reassess the fair value of the contingent consideration on a quarterly basis and record any applicable adjustments to earnings in the period they are determined. 47Table of ContentsAssets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following (in millions):     The following table summarizes changes to the fair value of the Level 3 assets (in millions): Auction rate security Foreign currency derivativeBalance as of October 3, 2014$2.3 $0.7Changes in fair value included in earnings  2.6Balance as of October 2, 2015$2.3 $3.3The following table summarizes changes to the fair value of the Level 3 liabilities (in millions): Purchase obligation Foreign currency derivative Contingent considerationBalance as of October 3, 2014$74.0 $0.7 $ Changes in fair value included in earnings1.4 2.1  Purchases and additions    0.5Balance as of October 2, 2015$75.4 $2.8 $0.5Assets Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis The Company s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations are measured at fair value using valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment.  There were no indicators of impairment identified during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015. 5.     INVENTORY Inventory consists of the following (in millions):  48Table of Contents6.     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in millions): 7.     GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS The changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015, are primarily related to the business combination which closed during the fiscal year and to a lesser extent the final measurement period adjustments primarily related to the fair value of the pension inherited during the fiscal 2014 acquisition of FilterCo as discussed in Note 3, Business Combinations, in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company performed an impairment test of its goodwill as of the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter in accordance with its regularly scheduled testing.  The results of this test indicated that the Company s goodwill was not impaired.  There were no other indicators of impairment noted during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015.  Intangible assets consist of the following (in millions):The net carrying amount of intangible assets increased for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015 due to the identifiable intangible assets acquired during the fiscal year as discussed in Note 3, Business Combinations, in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Annual amortization expense for the next five years related to intangible assets is expected to be as follows (in millions): 49Table of Contents8.    INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes consists of the following components (in millions): The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): The actual income tax expense is different than that which would have been computed by applying the federal statutory tax rate to income before income taxes. A reconciliation of income tax expense as computed at the United States Federal statutory income tax rate to the provision for income tax expense is as follows (in millions): The Company operates in foreign jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the United States tax rate of 35%. The Company s tax benefits related to foreign earnings taxed at a rate less than the United States federal rate were $120.9 million and $77.3 million for the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015 and October 3, 2014, respectively. 50Table of ContentsThe federal tax credit available under the Internal Revenue Code for research and development expenses expired on December 31, 2014. As of October 2, 2015, the United States Congress had not taken action to extend the Research and Experimentation Tax Credit.  Accordingly, the income tax provision for the year ended October 2, 2015, does not reflect the impact of any research and development tax credits that would have been earned after December 31, 2014, had the federal tax credit not expired.  On December 19, 2014, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 was signed into law, extending the Research and Experimentation Tax Credit to reinstate and retroactively extend credits earned in calendar year 2014. As a result of the enactment of this law, $11.0 million of federal research and development tax credits that were earned in fiscal 2014 reduced the tax rate during fiscal 2015.  These credits were not reflected in the fiscal 2014 tax rate.As of October 2, 2015, the Company s federal income tax returns for fiscal 2012 and 2013 were under examination by the IRS. The Company expects the IRS examination to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and does not expect the results of this audit to have an adverse impact on its tax expense. In addition, various state and international tax returns are under examination by their respective taxing authorities. The Company does not expect the results of these audits to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, the Company concluded an IRS examination of its federal income tax return for fiscal year 2011. As a result of the conclusion of the IRS examination, the Company agreed to various adjustments to its fiscal 2011 tax return that resulted in the recognition of tax expense of $0.7 million and $1.9 million for fiscal years 2014 and 2013, respectively.  In addition, the conclusion of the IRS examination also resulted in a decrease in the uncertain tax positions of $20.9 million in fiscal 2014, of which $20.4 million was recognized as a benefit to tax expense. In December 2013, Mexico enacted a comprehensive tax reform package, which became effective on January 1, 2014. As a result of this change, the Company adjusted its deferred taxes in that jurisdiction, resulting in the recognition of a tax benefit that reduced the Company s foreign income tax expense by $4.6 million for year ended October 3, 2014.On October 2, 2010, the Company expanded its presence in Asia by launching operations in Singapore.  The Company operates under a tax holiday in Singapore, which is effective through September 30, 2020 and is conditional upon the Company s compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds in Singapore.  The impact of the tax holiday decreased Singapore s taxes by $26.6 million and $12.6 million for the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015 and October 3, 2014, respectively, which resulted in tax benefits of $0.14 and $0.07 of diluted earnings per share, respectively. 51Table of ContentsDeferred income tax assets and liabilities consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to the following (in millions):  Fiscal Years Ended October 2, 2015 October 3, 2014Deferred Tax Assets:   Current:   Inventory$4.9 $5.3Bad debts0.1 0.2Accrued compensation and benefits5.2 5.0Product returns, allowances and warranty4.3 4.9Restructuring0.1 0.2Other, net0.6 0.3Current deferred tax assets15.2 15.9Less valuation allowance(6.4) (6.4)Net current deferred tax assets8.8 9.5Long-term:   Intangible assets11.6 4.7Share-based and other deferred compensation44.6 39.4Net operating loss carry forwards7.4 12.7Federal tax credits11.5 13.0State tax credits53.4 43.1Other, net2.4 2.7Long-term deferred tax assets130.9 115.6Less valuation allowance(58.8) (54.4)Net long-term deferred tax assets72.1 61.2    Deferred tax assets146.1 131.5Less valuation allowance(65.2) (60.8)Net deferred tax assets80.9 70.7Deferred Tax Liabilities:   Current:   Prepaid insurance(0.8) (0.8)Current deferred tax liabilities(0.8) (0.8)Long-term:   Property, plant and equipment(10.1) (11.6)Intangible assets(8.2) (1.2)Long-term deferred tax liabilities(18.3) (12.8)    Net deferred tax liabilities(19.1) (13.6)Total net deferred tax assets$61.8 $57.1In accordance with GAAP, management has determined that it is more likely than not that a portion of its historic and current year income tax benefits will not be realized.  As of October 2, 2015, the Company has maintained a valuation allowance of $65.2 million. This valuation allowance is comprised of $53.5 million related to United States state tax credits, and $11.7 million related to foreign deferred tax assets.  If these benefits are recognized in a future period the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets will be reversed and up to a $65.2 million income tax benefit may be recognized.  The Company will need to generate $144.2 million of future United States federal taxable income to utilize our United States deferred tax assets as of October 2, 2015.  The Company believes that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, and its forecast of continued strong earnings in its domestic and foreign jurisdictions supports its decision to not record a valuation allowance on other deferred tax assets. 52Table of ContentsDeferred tax assets are recognized for foreign operations when management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be recovered during the carry forward period. The Company will continue to assess its valuation allowance in future periods. As of October 2, 2015, the Company has United States federal net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $9.9 million.  The utilization of these net operating losses is subject to certain annual limitations as required under Internal Revenue Code section 382 and similar state income tax provisions.  The United States federal net operating loss carry forwards expire at various dates through 2035.  The Company also has United States federal income tax credit carry forwards of $6.4 million, of which $6.3 million of federal income tax credit carry forwards have not been recorded as a deferred tax asset.  The Company also has state income tax credit carry forwards of $53.4 million, net of federal benefits, for which the Company has provided a valuation allowance.  The United States federal tax credits expire at various dates through 2030. The state tax credits relate primarily to California research tax credits that can be carried forward indefinitely. The Company has continued to expand its operations and increase its investments in numerous international jurisdictions.  These activities will increase the Company s earnings attributable to foreign jurisdictions.  As of October 2, 2015, no provision has been made for United States federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes related to approximately $1,175.5 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the United States federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings were not permanently reinvested. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in millions):  Unrecognized tax benefitsBalance at October 3, 2014$51.8Increases based on positions related to prior years0.2Increases based on positions related to current year29.3Decreases relating to settlements with taxing authorities Decreases relating to lapses of applicable statutes of limitations(0.1)Balance at October 2, 2015$81.2Of the total unrecognized tax benefits at October 2, 2015, $66.7 million would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits would not impact the effective tax rate, if recognized, due to the Company s valuation allowance and certain positions that were required to be capitalized. There are certain unrecognized tax positions that may be adjusted during fiscal 2016 upon closure of the IRS examination of the Company s fiscal 2012 and 2013 federal income tax returns.  During the year ended October 2, 2015, the Company recognized $0.1 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits related to the expiration of the statute of limitations and $1.6 million of accrued interest or penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits. The Company s major tax jurisdictions as of October 2, 2015 are the United States, California, Singapore, Mexico and Canada. For the United States, the Company has open tax years dating back to fiscal 1999 due to the carry forward of tax attributes. For California, the Company has open tax years dating back to fiscal 1999 due to the carry forward of tax attributes. For Canada, the Company has open tax years dating back to fiscal 2008.  For Mexico, the Company has open tax years back to fiscal 2009.  For Singapore, the Company has open tax years dating back to fiscal 2011. The Company is subject to audit examinations by the respective taxing authorities on a periodic basis, of which the results could impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 9.     STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY COMMON STOCKAt October 2, 2015, the Company is authorized to issue 525.0 million shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per share, of which 219.0 million shares are issued and 190.3 million shares outstanding.Holders of the Company s common stock are entitled to dividends in the event declared by the Company s Board of Directors out of funds legally available for such purpose.  Dividends may not be paid on common stock unless all accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, have been paid or declared and set aside. In the event of the Company s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the holders of common stock will be entitled to share pro rata in the assets remaining after payment to creditors and after payment of the liquidation preference plus any unpaid dividends to holders of any outstanding preferred stock. 53Table of ContentsEach holder of the Company s common stock is entitled to one vote for each such share outstanding in the holder s name. No holder of common stock is entitled to cumulate votes in voting for directors. The Company s restated certificate of incorporation as amended to date, ( the Certificate of Incorporation ) provides that, unless otherwise determined by the Company s Board of Directors, no holder of stock has any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any stock of any class which the Company may issue or sell.PREFERRED STOCKThe Company s Certificate of Incorporation has authorized and permits the Company to issue up to 25.0 million shares of preferred stock without par value in one or more series and with rights and preferences that may be fixed or designated by the Company s Board of Directors without any further action by the Company s stockholders. The designation, powers, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the preferred stock of each series will be fixed by the certificate of designation relating to such series, which will specify the terms of the preferred stock. At October 2, 2015, the Company had no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding.SHARE REPURCHASEDuring the fiscal year ended October 2, 2015, the Company paid approximately $237.3 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 2.9 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $83.29 per share) under the November 11, 2014 share repurchase plan.  This plan was initially valid through November 11, 2016, and allowed for the repurchase of the Company s common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, in compliance with applicable securities laws and other legal requirements.  As of October 2, 2015, $62.7 million remained available under the share repurchase plan.On November 10, 2015, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $400.0 million of its common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.  The repurchase program is set to expire on November 10, 2017; however, it may be suspended, discontinued or extended by the Board of Directors at any time prior to its expiration on November 10, 2017.  This authorized stock repurchase program replaced in its entirety the November 11, 2014 stock repurchase program.  These repurchases have been and will be funded with the Company s working capital.During the fiscal year ended October 3, 2014, the Company paid approximately $165.7 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 4.5 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $36.46 per share). DIVIDENDSOn November 5, 2015, the Company announced that the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on the Company s common stock of $0.26 per share.  This dividend is payable on December 10, 2015, to the Company s stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 19, 2015.  Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Board of Directors.  The dividends charged to retained earnings in fiscal 2015 and 2014 were as follows (in millions except per share amounts):EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANSAs of October 2, 2015, the Company has the following equity compensation plans under which its equity securities were authorized for issuance to its employees and/or directors: the 1999 Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan the Directors  2001 Stock Option Plan  54Table of Contents the Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan  the 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan the AATI 2005 Equity Incentive Plan  the 2008 Director Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2015 Long-Term Incentive PlanExcept for the 1999 Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, each of the foregoing equity compensation plans was approved by the Company s stockholders.As of October 2, 2015, a total of 100.7 million shares are authorized for grant under the Company s share-based compensation plans, with 5.4 million options outstanding. The number of common shares reserved for future awards to employees and directors under these plans was 21.6 million at October 2, 2015. The Company grants equity awards under the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan to employees, which replaced the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan on May 19, 2015 and the 2008 Director Long-Term Incentive Plan for non-employee directors.  2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  Under this plan, officers, employees, non-employee directors and certain consultants may be granted stock options, restricted stock awards and units, performance stock awards and units and other share-based awards.  The plan has been approved by the stockholders.  Under the plan, up to 30.5 million shares have been authorized for grant.  A total of 20.9 million shares are available for new grants as of October 2, 2015.  The maximum contractual term of the awards is seven years from the date of grant.  Options granted under the plan are exercisable at the determination of the compensation committee and generally vest ratably over four years.  Restricted stock awards and units granted under the plan at the determination of the compensation committee generally vest over four or more years.  With respect to restricted stock awards, dividends are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest.  If the underlying shares are forfeited for any reason, the rights to the dividends with respect to such shares are also forfeited.  No dividends or dividend equivalents are paid or accrued with respect to restricted stock unit awards or other awards until the shares underlying such awards become vested and are issued to the award holder.  Performance stock awards and units are contingently granted depending on the achievement of certain predetermined performance goals and generally vest over three or more years.    2008 Director Long-Term Incentive Plan.  Under this plan, non-employee directors may be granted stock options, restricted stock awards and other share-based awards.  The plan has been approved by the stockholders.  Under the plan a total of 1.5 million shares have been authorized for option grants. A total of 0.7 million shares are available for new grants as of October 2, 2015.  The maximum contractual term of the director awards is ten years from the date of grant.  Options granted under the plan are generally exercisable over four years.  Restricted stock awards granted under the plan are exercisable at the determination of the compensation committee and generally vest over three or more years.  With respect to restricted stock awards, dividends are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest.  If the underlying shares are forfeited for any reason, the rights to the dividends with respect to such shares are also forfeited.   Employee Stock Purchase Plans.  The Company maintains a domestic and an international employee stock purchase plan. Under these plans, eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of their compensation. The price per share is the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock at the beginning or end of each offering period (generally six months). The plans provide for purchases by employees of up to an aggregate of 9.7 million shares.  Shares of common stock purchased under these plans in the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013 were 0.3 million, 0.5 million, and 0.5 million, respectively.  At October 2, 2015, there are 1.2 million shares available for purchase. The Company recognized compensation expense of $4.7 million, $4.1 million and $3.9 million for the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013, respectively related to the employee stock purchase plan.  The unrecognized compensation expense on the employee stock purchase plan at October 2, 2015 was $1.7 million.  The weighted average period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is approximately four months. 55Table of ContentsStock OptionsThe following table represents a summary of the Company s stock options:  Shares                   (in millions)   Weighted average exercise price Weighted average remaining contractual life       (in years) Aggregate intrinsic value                      (in millions)Balance outstanding at October 3, 20147.5 $21.26    Granted1.1 $63.62    Exercised(2.9) $19.78    Canceled/forfeited(0.3) $30.12    Balance outstanding at October 2, 20155.4 $29.99 4.2 $291.3        Exercisable at October 2, 20152.1 $18.63 2.7 $134.2The weighted-average grant date fair value per share of employee stock options granted during the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014 and September 27, 2013 was $23.26, $11.91, and $9.31, respectively.  The total grant date fair value of the options vested during the fiscal years ending October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014 and September 27, 2013 was $16.6 million, $21.8 million and $33.5 million, respectively.Restricted and Performance Awards and UnitsThe following table represents a summary of the Company s restricted and performance transactions:    Shares                     (In millions) Weighted averagegrant date fair value    Non-vested awards outstanding at October 3, 20145.7 $21.48Granted (1)1.8 $63.56Vested(2.4) $25.44Canceled/forfeited(0.3) $24.42Non-vested awards outstanding at October 2, 20154.8 $23.20(1) includes performance shares granted and earned based on maximum performance under the underlying performance metricsThe weighted average grant date fair value per share for awards granted during the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014 and September 27, 2013 was $63.56, $26.69, and $20.19, respectively.   The total grant date fair value of the awards vested during the fiscal years ending October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014 and September 27, 2013 was $149.0 million, $63.1 million and $53.5 million, respectively.The following table summarizes the total intrinsic value for stock options exercised and awards vested (in millions): 56Table of ContentsValuation and Expense Information under ASC 718The following table summarizes pre-tax share-based compensation expense by financial statement line and related tax benefit (in millions): The following table summarizes total compensation costs related to unvested share based awards not yet recognized and the weighted average period over which it is expected to be recognized at October 2, 2015: Unrecognized compensation cost for unvested awards(in millions) Weighted average remaining recognition period(in years)Options$31.9 2.0Awards$69.5 1.1The fair value of the restricted awards and units are equal to the closing market price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant.  The fair value of the performance awards and units are equal to the closing market price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant and the expense is updated for the achievement of the underlying performance metrics.  The Company issued performance share units during fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 that contained market-based conditions.  The fair value of these performance share units were estimated on the date of the grant using a Monte Carlo simulation with the following weighted average assumptions: The fair value of each stock option is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:  The Company used a historical volatility calculated by the mean reversion of the weekly-adjusted closing stock price over the expected life of the options. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed treasury bill interest rates appropriate for the expected life of the Company s employee stock options.  The dividend yield was included in the Black-Scholes option pricing model for options granted after the Company declared its first dividend.   57Table of Contents The expected life of employee stock options represents a calculation based upon the historical exercise, cancellation and forfeiture experience for the Company across its demographic population.  The Company believes that this historical data is the best estimate of the expected life of a new option and that generally all groups of the Company s employees exhibit similar behavior. 10.     EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN, PENSIONS AND OTHER RETIREE BENEFITS The Company maintains a 401(k) plan covering substantially all of its employees based in the United States under which all employees at least twenty-one years old are eligible to receive discretionary Company contributions.  Discretionary Company contributions are determined by the Board of Directors and may be in the form of cash or the Company s stock. The Company has generally contributed a match of up to 4% of an employee s contributed annual eligible compensation.  For the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013, the Company contributed shares of 0.1 million, 0.2 million, and 0.3 million, respectively, and recognized expense of $7.2 million, $6.2 million, and $6.2 million, respectively.FilterCo Defined Benefit Pension:On April 1, 2015, the Company assumed a defined benefit pension plan from Panasonic for certain participants located in Japan that formally transferred from Panasonic to FilterCo, as discussed in Note 3, Business Combinations, in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  This plan has been frozen and new employees are not eligible.  However, the Company is obligated to make future contributions to fund benefits to the participants with the benefits under the plan being based primarily on a combination of years of service and compensation.  The net amount of the unfunded obligation recognized in other long-term liabilities on the Balance Sheet consists of (in millions):  Fiscal Year Ended  October 2, 2015Pension benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year $14.9Fair value of plan assets at the end of the fiscal year 9.8Funded status $(5.1)   Net periodic benefit costs $0.1The pension obligation has an immaterial impact to the Company s results of operations and financial position and accordingly, the disclosures required per the retirement benefit compensation topic in the ASC have been excluded from this Annual Report on Form 10-K.11.     COMMITMENTS The Company has various operating leases primarily for buildings, computers and equipment. Rent expense amounted to $16.5 million, $11.1 million, and $10.8 million in the fiscal years ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013, respectively. Future minimum payments under these non-cancelable leases are as follows (in millions):In addition, the Company has entered into licensing agreements for intellectual property rights and maintenance and support services. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, the Company is committed to making aggregate payments of $17.6 million and $0.2 million in the fiscal years 2016 and 2017, respectively.12.     CONTINGENCIES Legal MattersFrom time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.  58Table of ContentsOn November 23, 2015, PMC delivered to the Company a notice terminating the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement. Prior to the termination of the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement, between October 8, 2015 and October 21, 2015, three putative class action lawsuits challenging the then-proposed Merger were filed on behalf of PMC stockholders in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and in the Superior Court of California in Santa Clara County.  The actions are captioned Pietrus Industries Ltd. v. PMC-Sierra, Inc., et al., CA. No. 11610-VCG (Delaware Court of Chancery), Bhakta v. PMC-Sierra, et al., Case No. 1-15-CV-286967 (Superior Court of California, Santa Clara County), and Azzalini v. Lang, et al., Case No. 1-15-CV-287124 (Superior Court of California, Santa Clara County).  The lawsuits name the Company, PMC, the directors of PMC, and others as defendants.  In general, they allege that the directors of PMC breached their fiduciary duties to PMC stockholders in connection with the Merger by, among other things, failing to fully inform themselves of the market value of PMC, maximize stockholder value, and act in the best interest of public stockholders, and by placing their personal financial interests before the interests of stockholders.  These actions further allege that the Company and PMC, among others, aided and abetted the directors  purported breach of their fiduciary duties.  Among other things, they seek (i) injunctive relief preliminarily and permanently enjoining the Merger, (ii) in the event that the Merger is consummated, rescission or an award of rescissory damages, (iii) plaintiffs  costs and fees, including attorneys  expenses and experts  fees; and (iv) an accounting for damages sustained.  The two actions pending in the Superior Court of California have been assigned to the Complex Civil Litigation Department, and all discovery in those matters has been stayed.  The court in those actions has scheduled a case management conference for February 19, 2016.The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company s financial condition, or results of operations. From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs are expensed as incurred. The Company monitors the status of legal proceedings and other contingencies on an ongoing basis to ensure amounts are recognized and/or disclosed in our financial statements and footnotes as required by Accounting Standards Codification 450, Loss Contingencies. At the time of this filing, the Company had not recorded any accrual for loss contingencies associated with its legal proceedings as losses resulting from such matters were determined not to be probable. The Company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings that are reasonably possible to result in a material loss. We are engaged in various legal actions in the normal course of business and, while there can be no assurances, the Company believes the outcome of all pending litigation involving the Company will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its business. 13.     GUARANTEES AND INDEMNITIES The Company has made no contractual guarantees for the benefit of third parties. However, the Company generally indemnifies its customers from third-party intellectual property infringement litigation claims related to its products, and, on occasion, also provides other indemnities related to product sales. In connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims arising from the facility or the lease.The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. The indemnities to customers in connection with product sales generally are subject to limits based upon the amount of the related product sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other restrictions. In certain instances, the Company s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and does not expect that such obligations will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.14.     RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES As of October 2, 2015, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges of approximately $3.4 million related to costs associated with organizational restructuring plans initiated in the fiscal year.  The Company does not anticipate any material charges in future periods related to these plans. 59Table of ContentsAs of October 3, 2014, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges of approximately $0.3 million related to costs associated with organizational restructuring plans initiated in the prior fiscal year.  The Company does not anticipate any material charges in future periods related to these plans.The Company recorded restructuring and other charges of approximately $6.4 million related to severance costs associated with separate organizational restructuring plans undertaken to reduce headcount during the fiscal year ended September 27, 2013. These restructuring plans are largely complete and have been aggregated into the  FY13 Restructuring Programs  line item in the summary table below. Activity and liability balances related to the Company s restructuring actions are as follows (in millions): Balance at September 28, 2012 Current Charges Cash Payments Balance at September 27, 2013FY13 Restructuring Programs            Employee Severance costs$  $6.4 $(5.8) $0.6Other Restructuring            Employee Severance costs0.9   (0.9)      Lease and other contractual obligations0.8   (0.4) 0.4Total$1.7 $6.4 $(7.1) $1.0         Balance at September 27, 2013 Current Charges Cash Payments Balance at         October 3, 2014FY13 Restructuring Programs            Employee Severance costs$0.6 $0.3 $(0.6) $0.3Other Restructuring           Lease and other contractual obligations0.4   (0.2) 0.2Total$1.0 $0.3 $(0.8) $0.5         Balance at         October 3, 2014 Current Charges Cash Payments Balance at         October 2, 2015FY13 Restructuring Programs            Employee Severance costs$0.3 $  $(0.2) $0.1Other Restructuring            Employee Severance costs  3.4 (3.2) 0.2    Lease and other contractual obligations0.2   (0.1) 0.1Total$0.5 $3.4 $(3.5) $0.4  15.     EARNINGS PER SHAREThe following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share amounts): 60Table of ContentsBasic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company s common stock outstanding. The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards which were outstanding during the fiscal years ending October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014 and September 27, 2013, using the treasury stock method.  Certain of the Company s outstanding stock options, noted in the table above, were excluded because they were anti-dilutive, but could become dilutive in the future.16.     SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CONCENTRATIONS In accordance with ASC 280-Segment Reporting, the Company considers itself to be a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property.  In reaching this conclusion, management considers the definition of the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ), how the business is defined by the CODM, the nature of the information provided to the CODM and how that information is used to make operating decisions, allocate resources and assess performance. The Company s CODM is the chairman and chief executive officer. The results of operations provided to and analyzed by the CODM are at the consolidated level and accordingly, key resource decisions and assessment of performance is performed at the consolidated level. The Company assesses its determination of operating segments at least annually.GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATIONNet revenue by geographic area presented based upon the country of destination are as follows (in millions):The Company s revenues by geography do not necessarily correlate to end market demand by region. For example, the Company s revenues reflected in the China line item above include sales of products to a company that is not headquartered in China but that manufactures its products in China for sale to consumers throughout the world, including in the United States, Europe, China, and other markets in Asia. The Company s revenue to external customers is generated principally from the sale of semiconductor products that facilitate various wireless communication applications. Accordingly, the Company considers its product offerings to be similar in nature and therefore not segregated for reporting purposes.Net property, plant and equipment balances, based on the physical locations within the indicated geographic areas are as follows (in millions): 61Table of ContentsCONCENTRATIONSFinancial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist principally of trade accounts receivable. Trade accounts receivables are primarily derived from sales to manufacturers of communications and consumer products and electronic component distributors. Ongoing credit evaluations of customers  financial condition are performed and collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees, are required whenever deemed necessary.  In fiscal 2015, Foxconn Technology Group (together with its affiliates and other suppliers to a large OEM for use in multiple applications including smartphones, tablets, routers, desktop and notebook computers) constituted more than ten percent of our net revenue.  In fiscal 2014 and 2013, two customers Foxconn Technology Group (together with its affiliates and other suppliers to a large OEM for use in multiple applications including smartphones, tablets, routers, desktop and notebook computers), and Samsung Electronics each constituted more than ten percent of our net revenue. The Company s greater than ten percent customers comprised the following percentages of net revenue:  Fiscal Years Ended  October 2, 2015 October 3, 2014 September 27, 2013Company A 44% 34% 36%Company B * 10% 15%* Customer did not represent greater than ten percent of net revenue      At October 2, 2015, the Company s three largest accounts receivable balances comprised 62% of aggregate gross accounts receivable.  This concentration was 58% and 51% at October 3, 2014 and September 27, 2013, respectively.17.     QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) The following table summarizes the quarterly and annual results (in millions, except per share data):____________(1)Earnings per share calculations for each of the quarters are based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding and included common stock equivalents in each period. Therefore, the sums of the quarters do not necessarily equal the full year earnings per share.ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.None.  62Table of ContentsITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of October 2, 2015. The term  disclosure controls and procedures,  as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on management s evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of October 2, 2015, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial ReportingThe management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company.  Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:  Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;  Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and  Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of October 2, 2015.  In making this assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) 2013 Internal Control-Integrated Framework.Based on their assessment, management concluded that, as of October 2, 2015, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as stated within their report which appears herein. Changes in internal controls over financial reporting. There are no changes to our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially affected or are reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION. None. 63Table of ContentsPART IIIITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.The information under the captions  Directors and Executive Officers ,  Corporate Governance Committees of the Board of Directors  and  Other Matters Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.We have adopted a written code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions.  We make available our code of business conduct and ethics free of charge through our website, which is located at www.skyworksinc.com.  We intend to disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market by posting any such amendment or waivers on our website and disclosing any such waivers in a Form 8-K filed with the SEC.ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.The information to be included under the caption  Information about Executive and Director Compensation  in our definitive proxy statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED   STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.The information to be included under the captions  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in our definitive proxy statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.The information to be included under the captions  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Corporate Governance Director Independence  in our definitive proxy statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.The information to be included under the caption  Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Audit Fees  in our definitive proxy statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 64Table of ContentsPART IVITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.(a)The following are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 1.Index to Financial StatementsPage number in this report   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmPage  35Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013Page  36Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013 Page 38Consolidated Balance Sheets at October 2, 2015 and October 3, 2014Page  38Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013Page  39Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the Years Ended October 2, 2015, October 3, 2014, and September 27, 2013Page  40Notes to Consolidated Financial StatementsPages  41 through  62   2.The schedule listed below is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:Page number in this report Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying AccountsPage  68 All other required schedule information is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements or is omitted because it is either not required or not applicable. 3.The Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the Exhibits are filed as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (b)Exhibits The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are filed herewith and incorporated by reference herein. The response to this portion of Item 15 is submitted under Item 15 (a) (3). 65Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.Date: November 24, 2015  SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC. Registrant    By:/s/ David J. Aldrich  David J. Aldrich  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      Table of ContentsPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on November 24, 2015.Signature and Title Signature and Title   /s/ David J. Aldrich /s/ Kevin L. BeebeDavid J. Aldrich Kevin L. BeebeChairman and Chief Executive Officer Director(principal executive officer)    /s/Timothy R. Furey  Timothy R. Furey/s/ Donald W. Palette DirectorDonald W. Palette  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer /s/ Balakrishnan S. Iyer(principal accounting and financial officer) Balakrishnan S. Iyer  Director     /s/ Christine King  Christine King  Director     /s/ David P. McGlade  David P. McGlade  Director     /s/ David J. McLachlan  David J. McLachlan  Director     /s/ Robert A. Schriesheim  Robert A. Schriesheim  Director    67Table of ContentsSCHEDULE IIVALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS(In millions)DescriptionBeginning balance Charged toassets or expenses Deductions Misc. (1) EndingbalanceYear Ended September 27, 2013         Allowance for doubtful accounts$0.5 $0.2 $(0.2) $  $0.5Reserve for sales returns$6.4 $3.1 $(4.8) $  $4.7Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets$47.0 $4.0 $  $  $51.0Year Ended October 3, 2014         Allowance for doubtful accounts$0.5 $0.2 $0.1 $  $0.8Reserve for sales returns$4.7 $12.7 $(3.3) $  $14.1Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets$51.0 $7.1 $  $2.7 $60.8Year Ended October 2, 2015         Allowance for doubtful accounts$0.8 $(0.4) $  $  $0.4Reserve for sales returns$14.1 $16.0 $(17.9) $  $12.2Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets$60.8 $3.6 $  $0.8 $65.2(1) Includes acquired balances  68Table of ContentsEXHIBIT INDEXTable of ContentsTable of ContentsExhibitNumber    Exhibit DescriptionFormIncorporated by ReferenceFiled HerewithFile No.ExhibitFiling Date10.29*Change in Control / Severance Agreement, dated December 16, 2014, between the Company and Mark Tremallo10-Q001-0556010.62/4/2015 10.30*Change in Control / Severance Agreement, dated December 16, 2014, between the Company and Victoria Vezina10-Q001-0556010.72/4/2015 10.31*Change in Control / Severance Agreement, dated December 16, 2014, between the Company and Peter Gammel    X10.32Second Amended and Restated Commitment Letter, by and among the Company, Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of America, N.A., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (on behalf of itself and Citibank, N.A. and Citicorp North America, Inc.), dated as of October 29, 20158-K001-0556010.210/30/2015 21Subsidiaries of the Company    X23.1Consent of KPMG LLP    X31.1Certification of the Company s Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities and Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    X31.2Certification of the Company s Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities and Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    X32.1Certification of the Company s Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    X32.2Certification of the Company s Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    X101.INSXBRL Instance Document    X101.SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document    X101.CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document    X101.DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document    X101.LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document    X101.PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document    X* Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.    