<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>the10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>COMPLETE 10K FILE
<TEXT>


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

                        FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                     PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.


 X   ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
---  ACT OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001

     TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13 OR  15(d)  OF THE  SECURITIES
---  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission file number 0-27078

                               HENRY SCHEIN, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              DELAWARE                               135 Duryea Road
   (State or other jurisdiction of                 Melville, New York
    incorporation or organization)      (Address of principal executive offices)
             11-3136595                                   11747
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)                   (Zip Code)


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (631) 843-5500

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                      None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                          Common Stock, par value $.01
                                (Title of class)


     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
YES: X   NO:
    ---     ---
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
          ---
     The  aggregate  market  value  of the  registrant's  voting  stock  held by
non-affiliates  of the  registrant,  computed by reference to the closing  sales
price  as  quoted  on  the  NASDAQ   National  Market  on  March  15,  2002  was
approximately $1,867,354,000.

     As of March 15, 2002 there were 42,917,608  shares of  registrant's  Common
Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Portions of the Registrant's  definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation  14A not  later  than  120  days  after  the end of the  fiscal  year
(December 29, 2001) are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.
<page>
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                           Page
                                                                          Number
PART I                                                                    ------
  ITEM 1.   Business.......................................................  1
  ITEM 2.   Properties..................................................... 12
  ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings.............................................. 12
  ITEM 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders............ 13

PART II
  ITEM 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
                 Matters................................................... 14
  ITEM 6.   Selected Financial Data........................................ 15
  ITEM 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                 and Results of Operations................................. 17
  ITEM 7A.  Market Risks................................................... 27
  ITEM 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................... 28
  ITEM 9.   Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
                 and Financial Disclosure.................................. 60
PART III
  ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant............. 60
  ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation......................................... 60
  ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management. 60
  ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions................. 60

PART IV
  ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
                on Form 8-K................................................ 60
            Exhibit Index.................................................. 63
<page>
                                     PART I

ITEM  1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

     The Company is the largest  distributor of healthcare products and services
to  office-based  healthcare  practitioners  in the combined  North American and
European markets.  The Company has operations in the United States,  Canada, the
United Kingdom,  The Netherlands,  Belgium,  Germany,  France,  Austria,  Spain,
Australia  and New Zealand,  and conducts  its  business  through two  segments;
healthcare  distribution and technology.  These segments,  which are operated as
individual business units, offer different products and services,  albeit to the
same  customer  base.  The  healthcare  distribution  segment  consists  of  the
Company's   dental,   medical,   veterinary  and   international   groups.   The
international  group  is  comprised  of the  Company's  healthcare  distribution
business units located primarily in Europe,  and offers products and services to
dental,  medical and veterinary customers located in their respective geographic
regions.  The technology  segment consists  primarily of the Company's  practice
management software business and certain other value-added products and services
which  are  distributed  primarily  to  healthcare  professionals  in the  North
American market.

     The  Company  sells  products  and  services  to  over  400,000  customers,
primarily  dental  practices  and  dental  laboratories,  as well  as  physician
practices,   veterinary  clinics  and  institutions.   In  2001,  the  Company's
healthcare  distribution  business sold products to 75% of the estimated 110,000
dental  practices in the United  States.  The Company  believes  that there is a
strong  awareness  of the  "Henry  Schein"  name among  office-based  healthcare
practitioners  due to its 70  years of  experience  in  distributing  healthcare
products.  Through  its  comprehensive  catalogs  and  other  direct  sales  and
marketing  programs,  the Company offers its customers a broad product selection
of both branded and private brand  products  which  includes in excess of 80,000
stock keeping units ("SKU's") in North America and approximately 63,000 SKU's in
Europe,  at  published  prices that the Company  believes are below those of its
major  competitors.  The Company,  through its technology  business unit, offers
various value-added  products and services such as practice management software.
As of  December  29,  2001,  the  Company  had over  39,000  users of its dental
practice management software systems.

     For further  information on the Company's operating segments and operations
by  geographic  area,  see  "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations"  in ITEM 7 and Note 12 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

     During 2001,  the Company  distributed  over 19.0 million  pieces of direct
marketing   materials   (such  as  catalogs,   flyers  and  order  stuffers)  to
approximately  650,000  office-based  healthcare   practitioners.   The  Company
supports its direct  marketing  efforts with over 700 telesales  representatives
who facilitate  order  processing and generate sales through direct and frequent
contact with customers,  and with over 1,250 field sales consultants,  including
equipment  sales  specialists.   The  Company  utilizes  database   segmentation
techniques  to more  effectively  market its products and services to customers.
The  Company  continues  to expand its  management  information  systems and has
established  strategically  located  distribution centers to enable it to better
serve its customers and increase its operating efficiency.  The Company believes
that these  investments,  coupled with its broad product  offerings,  enable the
Company  to  provide  its   customers   with  a  single  source  of  supply  for
substantially  all  their  healthcare   product  needs  and  provide  them  with
convenient  ordering and rapid,  accurate and complete  order  fulfillment.  The
Company estimates that  approximately 99% of all orders in the United States and
Canada  received  before  5:00  p.m.  are  shipped  on the same day the order is
received and approximately 99% of orders are received by the customer within two
days of placing the order. In addition, the Company estimates that approximately
99% of all items  ordered in the United  States and Canada are  shipped  without
back ordering.

                                       1
<PAGE>

ACQUISITION STRATEGY

     The Company  believes that there has been  consolidation  among  healthcare
product distributors serving  office-based  healthcare  practitioners in part to
address  significant  changes in the healthcare  industry,  including  potential
healthcare reform,  trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare,  consolidation
of healthcare  distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements and
that this trend will continue to create  opportunities for the Company to expand
through  acquisitions.  In recent  years,  the Company has  acquired a number of
companies  engaged in businesses that are complementary to those of the Company.
The Company's acquisition strategy includes acquiring additional sales that will
be channeled through the Company's existing infrastructure,  acquiring access to
additional product lines, acquiring regional distributors with networks of field
sales consultants and international expansion.

     During  the year  ended  December  29,  2001,  the  Company  completed  two
acquisitions, neither of which was considered material either individually or in
the aggregate. The two acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting.

     During 2000, the Company completed three  acquisitions,  none of which were
considered  material  either  individually  or in the  aggregate.  Of the  three
completed  acquisitions,  two were  accounted  for under the purchase  method of
accounting and the remaining  acquisition was accounted for under the pooling of
interests method of accounting.  The Company issued 465,480 shares of its Common
Stock, with an aggregate value of approximately $7.9 million, in connection with
the pooling transaction.

     During 1999,  the Company  completed  nine  acquisitions.  These  completed
acquisitions,  which had  aggregate net sales for 1998 of  approximately  $324.0
million,  included (a) four  international  companies,  (b) four medical  supply
companies,  and (c) one  valued-added  services  company.  Of the nine completed
acquisitions,  eight were accounted for under the purchase  method of accounting
and the remaining  acquisition  was accounted for under the pooling of interests
method of accounting.

     The  transactions  completed  under the purchase  method of accounting have
been included in the  consolidated  financial  statements from their  respective
acquisition dates. The pooling transactions were not material and,  accordingly,
prior period financial statements have not been restated.  Results of the pooled
companies have been included in the consolidated  financial  statements from the
beginning of the quarter in which the acquisition occurred.

CUSTOMERS

     The Company, through its healthcare distribution and technology businesses,
serves over 400,000  customers  worldwide in the dental,  medical and veterinary
markets.  The Company's dental customers include  office-based dental practices,
dental laboratories, universities, institutions, governmental agencies and large
group accounts;  medical customers  include  office-based  physician  practices,
podiatrists, surgery centers, institutions, hospitals and governmental agencies;
and  the  Company's  veterinary  customers  include  office-based  veterinarians
serving primarily small companion animals.

     The Company believes that its healthcare  distribution  customers generally
order from two or more suppliers for their  healthcare  product needs, and often
use one  supplier  as their  primary  resource.  The Company  believes  that its
customers  generally  place larger orders and order more  frequently  from their
primary suppliers. The Company estimates that it serves as a primary supplier to
less than 15% of its total  customer base and believes it has an  opportunity to
increase  sales by  increasing  its level of business  with those  customers for
which it serves as a secondary supplier.

     Over the past several  years the Company has expanded its customer  base to
include larger purchasing organizations,  including certain dental laboratories,
institutions, government agencies, hospitals and surgery centers. More recently,
as  cost-containment  pressures  have resulted in increased  demand for low-cost
products and value-added  services,  the Company has targeted specific groups of
practices  under  common  ownership,  institutions and professional groups.  For

                                       2
<PAGE>

example,  the  Company  has an  exclusive  direct  marketing  agreement  with an
American Medical  Association ("AMA") sponsored service pursuant to which member
practitioners  have access to the services' lower prices for products.  In 2001,
the  AMA-sponsored  service  accounted  for net  sales  of  approximately  $32.5
million.  These services,  government  institutions and agencies,  hospitals and
other large or  collective  purchasers,  require  low-cost  pricing and detailed
product and usage  information  and reporting.  The Company  believes it is well
situated to meet the needs of these customers, given its broad, low-cost product
offerings and its management  information  systems. No single customer accounted
for more than 2.0% of net sales in 2001.

SALES AND MARKETING

     The Company's sales and marketing efforts,  which are designed to establish
and  solidify  customer  relationships  through  personal  visits by field sales
representatives  and frequent direct marketing contact,  emphasize the Company's
broad product lines,  competitive  prices and ease of order  placement.  The key
elements of the Company's program in the United States are:

Field Sales Consultants

     The Company has over 1,250 field  sales  consultants,  including  equipment
sales  specialists,  covering  certain  major North  American and  international
markets.  These field sales consultants  concentrate on attracting new customers
and increasing  sales to customers who do not currently  order a high percentage
of their total  product  needs from the  Company.  This  strategy is designed to
complement the Company's direct marketing and telesales strategies and to enable
the Company to better market, service and support the sale of more sophisticated
products  and  equipment.  Once a  field  sales  consultant  has  established  a
relationship with a customer,  the consultant encourages the customer to use the
Company's  automated ordering process or its telesales  representatives  for its
day-to-day  needs.  This  simplifies  the ordering  process for the customer and
increases the effectiveness of the field sales consultant.

Direct Marketing

     During 2001,  the Company  distributed  over 19.0 million  pieces of direct
marketing  material,  including  catalogs,  flyers,  order  stuffers  and  other
promotional   materials  to  approximately   650,000   office-based   healthcare
practitioners.  The Company's principal U.S. dental consumable catalog, which is
issued   annually,   contains  an  average  of  over  475  pages  and   includes
approximately  46,000 SKU's.  The number of catalogs and other direct  marketing
materials  received by each customer  depends upon the market they serve as well
as  their   purchasing   history.   The  Company's   catalogs  include  detailed
descriptions and  specifications  of both branded and private brand products and
are utilized by healthcare  practitioners as a reference  source.  By evaluating
its customers' purchasing patterns,  area of specialty,  past product selections
and other criteria,  the Company identifies  customers who may respond better to
specific promotions or products.  To facilitate its direct marketing activities,
the Company maintains an in-house  advertising  department,  which performs many
creative  services,  which  the  Company  believes  streamlines  the  production
process,  provides greater  flexibility and creativity in catalog production and
results in cost savings.

Telesales

     The  Company  supports  its  direct  marketing  with over 700  inbound  and
outbound telesales  representatives who facilitate order processing and generate
new sales through direct and frequent contact with customers.  Inbound telesales
representatives are responsible for assisting customers in purchasing  decisions
as well as answering product pricing and availability  questions. In addition to
assisting customers, inbound telesales representatives also market complementary
or promotional products. The Company's telesales representatives utilize on-line
computer  terminals to enter  customer  orders and to access  information  about
products, product availability, pricing, promotions and customer buying history.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     The Company utilizes  outbound  telesales  representatives  and programs to
better market its services to those customer accounts  identified by the Company
as either being high volume or high order frequency accounts. Outbound telesales
representatives  strive to manage long-term  relationships  with these customers
through  frequent  and/or  regularly  scheduled  phone contact and  personalized
service.

     The Company's telesales representatives generally participate in an initial
two-week training course designed to familiarize the sales  representative  with
the  Company's  products,  services and  systems.  In  addition,  generally  all
telesales  representatives  attend periodic  training sessions and special sales
programs and receive incentives, including monthly commissions.

CUSTOMER SERVICE

     A principal element of the Company's  customer service approach is to offer
an  order  entry  process  that is  convenient,  easy  and  flexible.  Customers
typically  place  orders  with  one  of  the  Company's   experienced  telesales
representatives.  Customers  may place orders 24 hours a day using the Company's
computerized  order entry  systems  known as ArubA(R)  Windows,  ArubA(R) eZ, or
ArubA(R)  TouchTone  (the  Company's  24-hour  automated  phone service) and the
Internet at www.henryschein.com or www.sullivanschein.com.

     The Company focuses on providing  rapid and accurate order  fulfillment and
high fill  rates.  The Company  estimates  that  approximately  99% of all items
ordered in the United States and Canada are shipped  without back ordering,  and
that  approximately  99% of all orders in the United States and Canada  received
before 5:00 p.m. are shipped on the same day the order is received. In addition,
because  the  Company  seeks to  service  a  customer's  entire  order  from the
distribution center nearest the customer's facility, approximately 99% of orders
are  received  within two days of placing  the order.  The  Company  continually
monitors its customer service through customer  surveys,  focus groups and daily
statistical  reports.  The Company  maintains a liberal  return policy to better
assure customer satisfaction with its products.

                                       4
<PAGE>
PRODUCTS

     The following chart sets forth the principal categories of products offered
by the Company's healthcare  distribution and technology  businesses and certain
top selling  types of products in each  category,  with the  percentage  of 2001
consolidated net sales in parenthesis:


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         HEALTHCARE DISTRIBUTION (97.2%)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                    -----------------------------------------
                             Dental Products (53.6%)
                    -----------------------------------------


 Consumable Dental
 Products and Small              Large Dental             Dental Laboratory
 Equipment (40.9%)             Equipment (9.7%)            Products (3.0%)
-------------------------   -----------------------   --------------------------
X-Ray Products; Infection   Dental Chairs; Delivery   Teeth; Composites; Gypsum;
Control; Handpieces;        Units and Lights;         Acrylics; Articulators;
Preventatives;              X-Rays; and Equipment     and Abrasives
Impression Materials;       Repair
Composites and
Anesthetics


  ------------------------------------    -----------------------------------
        Medical Products (39.8%)              Veterinary Products (3.8%)
  ------------------------------------    -----------------------------------
  Branded and Generic Pharmaceuticals;    Branded and Generic
  Surgical Products; Diagnostic Tests;    Pharmaceuticals; Surgical Products;
  Infection Control; X-Ray Products;      and Dental Products
  and Vitamins

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          TECHNOLOGY AND OTHER VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES (2.8%)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Software and Related Products and Other Value-Added Products, including
                  Financial Products and Continuing Education


     The percentage of 2000 and 1999 net sales was as follows: consumable dental
products  and small  equipment,  43.5% and  45.2%,  respectively;  large  dental
equipment,  9.7% and 9.7%,  respectively;  dental laboratory products,  3.0% and
3.0%, respectively; medical products, 36.9% and 35.2%, respectively;  veterinary
products,  4.1% and 4.0%,  respectively;  and technology  and other  value-added
products and services, 2.8% and 2.9%, respectively.

Consumable Supplies and Equipment

     The  Company  offers in excess of 80,000  SKU's to its  customers  in North
America,  of  which  approximately  60,000  SKU's  are  offered  to  its  dental
customers,  approximately  28,000  are  offered  to its  medical  customers  and
approximately 23,000 are offered to its veterinary customers.  Over 40.0% of the
Company's products are offered to all three types of the Company's  customers in
North America. The Company offers approximately 63,000 SKU's to its customers in
Europe.  Approximately 7.4% of the Company's net sales in 2001 was from sales of
products   offered  under  the  Henry  Schein  private  brand  (i.e.,   products
manufactured by various third parties for  distribution by the Company under the
Henry Schein(R) brand). The Company believes that the Henry Schein private brand
line of over 7,500 SKU's  offered in the United  States and Canada is one of the
most  extensive  in the  industry.  The Company  updates  its product  offerings
regularly to meet its customers' changing needs.

     The Company offers a repair service, ProRepair(R),  which provides a one to
two day turnaround for hand pieces and certain small equipment. The Company also
provides  in-office  installation  and repair  services  for large  equipment in
certain North American and international markets. The Company had a total of 107
equipment sales and service centers open at the end of fiscal 2001.

                                       5
<PAGE>

Technology and Other Value-Added Products and Services

     The Company sells practice  management  software  systems to its dental and
veterinary  customers.  The Company has over 39,000 users of its Easy  Dental(R)
and Dentrix  software systems  combined,  and over 5,400 users of its AVImark(R)
veterinary  software  systems,  as of the  end of  fiscal  2001.  The  Company's
practice  management  software  products  provide   practitioners  with  patient
treatment history,  billing,  accounts  receivable  analysis and management,  an
appointment calendar, electronic claims processing and word processing programs.
The Company  provides  technical  support  and  conversion  services  from other
software.  In addition,  the Easy Dental(R) and Dentrix  software  systems allow
customers to connect with the  Company's  order entry  management  systems.  The
Dentrix system is one of the most comprehensive clinically-based dental practice
management  software packages in the United States. The Dentrix premium software
product complements Easy Dental(R), the Company's high-value practice management
system. The Company believes the combined software product offerings enhance its
ability to provide its  customers  with the widest array of system  solutions to
help manage their practices.

     The Company offers its customers  assistance in managing their practices by
providing  access to a number of  financial  services and products at rates that
the  Company  believes  are  lower  than  what  they  would  be able  to  secure
independently.  The Company's equipment leasing programs, which are administered
by third party  providers,  allow it to fulfill a wide  variety of  practitioner
financing needs. The Company also provides financing and consulting services for
all  phases  of  the  healthcare  practice  including  start-up,   expansion  or
acquisition,  and debt  consolidation.  The Company's  patient financing program
provides its dental and veterinary  customers a method for reducing  receivables
and improving cash flow by providing  patients access to financing.  The Company
does not assume any financial  obligation to its customers or their  patients in
these programs.

     Through an  arrangement  with one of the nation's  largest bank credit card
processors,  the Company offers electronic bankcard processing. The Company also
offers electronic  insurance claims submission services for faster processing of
patient  reimbursements,  all through a  third-party  provider for a transaction
fee. The Company also offers practice management consulting services in selected
markets in the United States. None of these services,  either individually or in
the aggregate represents a material source of revenue to the Company.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

     The  Company's   management   information   systems   generally  allow  for
centralized  management  of key  functions,  including  inventory  and  accounts
receivable management,  purchasing,  sales and distribution.  A key attribute of
the Company's  management  information  systems is the daily  operating  control
reports which allow  managers  throughout the Company to share  information  and
monitor daily  progress  relating to sales  activity,  gross profit,  credit and
returns, inventory levels, stock balancing,  unshipped orders, order fulfillment
and other operational  statistics.  The Company continually seeks to enhance and
upgrade its order processing  information  system.  Additionally,  in the United
States, the Company has installed an integrated information system for its large
dental  equipment  sales and service  functions.  Such  systems  centralize  the
tracking of customers'  equipment orders, as well as spare parts inventories and
repair  services.  (See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" in ITEM 7.)

DISTRIBUTION

     The Company  distributes  its products in the United States  primarily from
its  strategically  located  distribution  centers in  Eastern,  Central,  South
Western  and  Western  United  States.  Customers  in Canada are  serviced  from
distribution  centers  located  in  Eastern  and  Western  Canada.  The  Company

                                       6
<PAGE>
maintains  significant  inventory levels of certain products in order to satisfy
customer  demand for prompt  delivery and complete  order  fulfillment  of their
product needs.  These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid
of  the  Company's   sophisticated   purchasing  and  stock  status   management
information  systems.  Once a customer's order is entered,  it is electronically
transmitted to the  distribution  center  nearest the customer's  location and a
packing  slip for the  entire  order  is  printed  for  order  fulfillment.  The
Company's automated freight manifesting and laser bar code scanning  facilitates
the speed of the order  fulfillment.  The Company currently ships  substantially
all of its  orders in the United  States by United  Parcel  Service.  In certain
areas of the United  States,  the  Company  delivers  its  orders  via  contract
carriers. The Company's international  distribution centers include locations in
the United Kingdom,  France,  Austria,  The Netherlands,  Belgium,  Germany, and
Spain.

PURCHASING

     The  Company  believes  that  effective  purchasing  is a  key  element  to
maintaining  and  enhancing  its position as a low-cost  provider of  healthcare
products.  The  Company  frequently  evaluates  its  purchase  requirements  and
suppliers' offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the best possible
cost.  The Company  believes that its ability to make high volume  purchases has
enabled it to obtain favorable pricing and terms from its suppliers. The Company
obtains its products for its North American distribution centers from over 2,300
suppliers  of name brand  products;  in  addition,  the Company has  established
relationships   with  numerous   local  vendors  to  obtain   products  for  its
international  distribution  centers.  In 2001,  the Company's top 10 healthcare
distribution  vendors and the Company's  single  largest  vendor,  accounted for
approximately  31.8%  and  7.0%,   respectively,   of  the  Company's  aggregate
purchases.

COMPETITION

     The  distribution  and manufacture of healthcare  supplies and equipment is
intensely competitive.  Many of the healthcare distribution products the Company
sells are available to the Company's  customers  from a number of suppliers.  In
addition,  competitors  of  the  Company  could  obtain  exclusive  rights  from
manufacturers to market particular  products.  Manufacturers  could also seek to
sell directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate the role of distributors, such
as the Company.

     In the United States, the Company competes with other distributors, as well
as several  major  manufacturers  of dental,  medical and  veterinary  products,
primarily on the basis of price,  breadth of product line,  customer service and
value-added  products  and  services.  In the sale of its dental  products,  the
Company's principal national competitor is Patterson Dental Co. In addition, the
Company  competes  against  a number of other  distributors  that  operate  on a
national,  regional and local level. The Company's principal  competitors in the
sale of medical  products  are PSS World  Medical,  Inc.,  the  General  Medical
division of McKesson Corp., and the Allegiance division of Cardinal Health Inc.,
which are national  distributors.  In the veterinary  market,  the Company's two
principal national  competitors  include The Butler Company and Burns Veterinary
Supply. The Company also competes against a number of regional and local medical
and  veterinary  distributors,  as well as a number of  manufacturers  that sell
directly to physicians and veterinarians.  With regard to the Company's practice
management  software,   the  Company  competes  against  numerous  other  firms,
including firms such as PracticeWorks,  Inc., which targets dental practices and
Idexx  Laboratories,  Inc.,  which  serves  veterinary  practices.  The  Company
believes  that it competes in Canada  substantially  on the same basis as in the
United States.

     The  Company  also faces  intense  competition  internationally,  where the
Company  competes on the basis of price and  customer  service  against  several
large competitors,  including  Demedis,  the GACD Group, the Pluradent Group and
Bilricay,  as  well  as a  large  number  of  dental  product  distributors  and
manufacturers in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands,  Belgium, Germany, France,
Austria, and Spain.

                                       7
<PAGE>
     Significant price reductions by the Company's competitors could result in a
similar  reduction in the  Company's  prices as a  consequence  of its policy of
matching its competitors'  lowest  advertised  prices.  Any of these competitive
pressures may materially adversely affect operating results.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

     The Company's  business is subject to  requirements  under  various  local,
state, Federal and foreign  governmental laws and regulations  applicable to the
manufacture and distribution of pharmaceuticals  and medical devices.  Among the
Federal laws with which the Company must comply are the Federal Food,  Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, the  Prescription  Drug  Marketing Act of 1987, and the Controlled
Substances Act.

     The  Federal  Food,   Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act  generally   regulates  the
introduction,  manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling,
marketing  and  distribution  of, and record  keeping for,  pharmaceuticals  and
medical devices shipped in interstate commerce.  The Prescription Drug Marketing
Act of 1987, which amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, establishes
certain  requirements  applicable to the wholesale  distribution of prescription
drugs,  including the requirement that wholesale drug distributors be registered
with the  Secretary  of Health and Human  Services  or licensed by each state in
which they conduct business in accordance with federally established  guidelines
on storage,  handling and record  maintenance.  Under the Controlled  Substances
Act, the Company,  as a  distributor  of controlled  substances,  is required to
obtain  annually a  registration  from the Attorney  General in accordance  with
specified  rules  and  regulations  and is  subject  to  inspection  by the Drug
Enforcement Administration acting on behalf of the Attorney General. The Company
is  required  to  maintain   licenses  and  permits  for  the   distribution  of
pharmaceutical  products  and  medical  devices  under the laws of the states in
which it operates.  In addition,  the Company's dentist and physician  customers
are subject to significant  governmental  regulation.  There can be no assurance
that regulations that impact dentists' or physicians'  practices will not have a
material adverse impact on the Company's business.

     The Company  believes that it is in substantial  compliance with all of the
foregoing  laws and the  regulations  promulgated  thereunder  and possesses all
material permits and licenses required for the conduct of its business.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

     The Company holds trademarks  relating to the "Henry Schein" name and logo,
as well as certain other trademarks.  Pursuant to certain agreements executed in
connection with a  reorganization  of the Company,  both the Company and, Schein
Pharmaceutical, Inc. (which was acquired by Watson Pharmaceuticals,  Inc. during
2000), a company  engaged in the  manufacture  and  distribution of multi-source
pharmaceutical  products,  are entitled to use the "Schein"  name in  connection
with  their  respective  businesses,  but  Schein  Pharmaceutical,  Inc.  is not
entitled to use the name  "Henry  Schein".  The  Company  intends to protect its
trademarks to the fullest extent practicable.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 29, 2001,  the Company had over 6,500  full-time  employees,
including  approximately  700  telesales  representatives,   1,250  field  sales
consultants,  including equipment sales specialists,  1,325 warehouse employees,
250 computer  programmers and  technicians,  600 management  employees and 2,375
office,  clerical and  administrative  employees.  The Company believes that its
relations with its employees are excellent.

                                       8
<PAGE>

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

     The  Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act of 1995  provides a "safe
harbor" for forward looking statements. Certain information in ITEMS 1, 2, 3, 5,
7, 7A and 8 of this Form 10-K include information that is forward looking,  such
as the Company's  opportunities  to increase sales through,  among other things,
acquisitions;   its  exposure  to  fluctuations  in  foreign   currencies;   its
anticipated liquidity and capital requirements;  competitive product and pricing
pressures and the ability to gain or maintain  share of sales in global  markets
as a result of actions by competitors; and the results of legal proceedings. The
matters referred to in forward looking statements could be affected by the risks
and  uncertainties   involved  in  the  Company's  business.   These  risks  and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the effect of economic and market
conditions,  the impact of the  consolidation of healthcare  practitioners,  the
impact of healthcare  reform,  opportunities  for acquisitions and the Company's
ability to effectively integrate acquired companies,  the acceptance and quality
of software  products,  acceptance  and ability to manage  operations in foreign
markets,   the  ability  to  maintain   favorable   supplier   arrangements  and
relationships,  possible  disruptions  in  the  Company's  computer  systems  or
telephone  systems,  possible  increases in shipping rates or  interruptions  in
shipping  service,  the level and  volatility  of  interest  rates and  currency
values,  economic and political conditions in international  markets,  including
civil  unrest,  government  changes and  restriction  on the ability to transfer
capital across borders, the impact of current or pending legislation, regulation
and changes in  accounting  standards and taxation  requirements,  environmental
laws in  domestic  and  foreign  jurisdictions,  as well as certain  other risks
described  above in this ITEM 1 and below in ITEM 3,  Legal  Proceedings  and in
ITEM 7, Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of  Operations.   Subsequent   written  and  oral  forward  looking   statements
attributable  to the  Company  or persons  acting on its  behalf  are  expressly
qualified in their entirety by the  cautionary  statements in this paragraph and
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

         The  Company's  principal  executive  offices are located at 135 Duryea
Road,  Melville,  New York 11747, and its telephone  number is 631-843-5500.  As
used in this Report,  the term the  "Company"  refers to Henry  Schein,  Inc., a
Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries, a 50%-owned company and predecessor,
unless otherwise stated.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

     The Company is subject to the informational  requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.  Accordingly,  the Company  files annual,  quarterly,  and
special reports,  proxy statements and other information with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  You may read and copy any document filed by the Company at
the SEC's  public  reference  rooms  located in New York,  New York and Chicago,
Illinois.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further  information on the
public  reference  rooms.  The Company's  SEC filings are also  available to the
public from the SEC's Website at http://www.sec.gov.

                                       9
<PAGE>


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table sets forth certain information  regarding the executive
officers of the Company.

Name                 Age  Position
-------------------- ---  -----------------------------------------------------
Stanley M. Bergman.. 52   Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and
                            Director
Gerald A. Benjamin.. 49   Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer
                            and Director
James P. Breslawski. 48   Executive Vice President, President US Dental and
                            Director
Leonard A. David.... 53   Vice President - Human Resources and Special Counsel
                            and Director
Larry M. Gibson..... 55   Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer
Michael Racioppi.... 47   President - Medical Group
Mark E. Mlotek...... 46   Senior Vice President - Corporate Business Development
                            Group and Director
Steven Paladino..... 44   Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
                            and Director
Michael Zack........ 49   Senior Vice President - International Group


     STANLEY M. BERGMAN has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
since 1989 and a director  of the  Company  since  1982.  Mr.  Bergman  held the
position of Executive Vice  President of the Company and Schein  Pharmaceutical,
Inc. from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and  Administration  of the
Company from 1980 to 1985. Mr. Bergman is a certified public accountant.

     GERALD  A.   BENJAMIN  has  been   Executive   Vice   President  and  Chief
Administrative  Officer  since  February  2000.  Prior to  holding  his  current
position,  Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer
Satisfaction  since 1993, and has been a director of the Company since September
1994. Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of Distribution  Operations of the Company
from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials  Management of the Company from 1988
to 1990.

     JAMES P.  BRESLAWSKI  has been  Executive Vice President of the Company and
President of US Dental since 1990, with primary responsibility for the US Dental
Group,  and a director of the Company  since 1990.  Between  1980 and 1990,  Mr.
Breslawski  held various  positions with the Company,  including Chief Financial
Officer,  Vice  President  of Finance and  Administration  and  Controller.  Mr.
Breslawski is a certified public accountant.

     LEONARD A. DAVID has been Vice  President  of Human  Resources  and Special
Counsel since January 1995. Mr. David held the office of Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary from 1990 to 1995 and practiced corporate and business law
for eight years prior to joining the  Company.  Mr. David has been a director of
the Company since September 1994.

     LARRY M. GIBSON has been  Executive  Vice  President  and Chief  Technology
Officer since October 2000.  Prior to holding his current  position,  Mr. Gibson
joined the Company as President of the Practice Management Technologies Group in
February 1997,  concurrent with the acquisition of Dentrix Dental Systems,  Inc.
("Dentrix").  Before joining the Company,  Mr. Gibson was founder,  Chairman and
CEO of Dentrix,  started in 1980.  Prior to his  employment  with  Dentrix,  Mr.
Gibson was employed by Weidner Communication Systems from 1978.

                                       10
<PAGE>

     MICHAEL  RACIOPPI has been  President of the Medical  Group since  February
2000 and Interim  President since  September 1999.  Prior to holding his current
position,  Mr.  Racioppi  was Vice  President  of the Company  since 1994,  with
primary responsibility for the Medical Division, the marketing and merchandising
groups. Mr. Racioppi served as Vice President and as Senior Director,  Corporate
Merchandising  from  1992 to 1994.  Before  joining  the  Company  in 1992,  Mr.
Racioppi  was  employed by Ketchum  Distributors  Inc. as the Vice  President of
Purchasing and Marketing.

     MARK E.  MLOTEK  has been  Senior  Vice  President  of  Corporate  Business
Development  Group since February 2000.  Prior to holding his current  position,
Mr. Mlotek was Vice President,  General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999,
and became a director of the  Company in  September  1995.  Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel
to  the   Company,   specializing   in  mergers  and   acquisitions,   corporate
reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.

     STEVEN  PALADINO has been  Executive  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial
Officer since February 2000. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino
was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer of the Company since 1993
and has been a  director  of the  Company  since  1992.  From 1990 to 1992,  Mr.
Paladino  served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as
Corporate  Controller of the Company.  Before joining the Company,  Mr. Paladino
was employed as a public  accountant  for seven years and most recently was with
the  international  accounting  firm of BDO  Seidman,  LLP.  Mr.  Paladino  is a
certified public accountant.

     MICHAEL  ZACK  has  been  responsible  for the  International  Group of the
Company since 1989. Mr. Zack was employed by Polymer Technology (a subsidiary of
Bausch & Lomb) as Vice President of  International  Operations from 1984 to 1989
and by Gruenenthal  GmbH as Manager of International  Subsidiaries  from 1975 to
1984.

                                       11
<PAGE>
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company owns or leases the following properties:


                                                       Approximate    Lease
                                               Own or     Square    Expiration
          Property              Location        Lease    Footage       Date
------------------------  --------------------  -----  ----------  -------------
Corporate Headquarters..    Melville, NY (1)    Lease    105,000   December 2005
Corporate Headquarters..      Melville, NY      Lease     67,000   November 2005
Distribution Center.....       Denver, PA       Lease    413,000   February 2013
Distribution Center.....     Pelham, NY (2)     Lease    108,000     July 2007
Distribution Center.....  Jacksonville, FL (3)  Lease    136,000   December 2009
Distribution Center.....      Secaucus, NJ      Lease    138,000   November 2008
Distribution Center.....  Indianapolis, IN (3)   Own     287,000        N/A
Distribution Center.....    Indianapolis, IN    Lease    225,000     April 2002
Distribution Center.....     West Allis, WI     Lease    106,000    October 2011
Distribution Center.....     Grapevine, TX      Lease    132,000     July 2008
Distribution Center.....       Sparks, NV       Lease    115,000     June 2003
Distribution Center.....     United Kingdom     Lease     85,000    August 2005
Distribution Center.....    Gallin, Germany      Own     172,000        N/A


(1)  The Company purchased this facility on January 10, 2002.

(2)  The Company is subletting  66,500 square feet of this facility through July
     2007.

(3)  The Company was not utilizing these locations at December 29, 2001, however
     the Company anticipates utilizing these facilities during 2002.

     All of the  properties  listed in the table above are primarily used in the
Company's healthcare distribution segment.

     The Company also leases distribution,  office,  showroom and sales space in
other  locations  including the United  States,  Canada,  France,  Germany,  The
Netherlands,  Belgium,  Spain,  Austria and the United  Kingdom.  One  50%-owned
company also leases space in the United States.

     The Company  believes that its properties are generally in good  condition,
are well  maintained,  and are  generally  suitable and adequate to carry on the
Company's business.  The Company has additional operating capacity at its listed
facilities.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The  Company's  business  involves a risk of product  liability  claims and
other  claims  in the  ordinary  course of  business,  and from time to time the
Company  is named as a  defendant  in cases as a result of its  distribution  of
pharmaceutical  and other  healthcare  products.  As of December 29,  2001,  the
Company was named a defendant in  approximately  72 product  liability cases. Of
these claims,  56 involve  claims made by healthcare  workers who claim allergic
reaction  relating to  exposure to latex  gloves.  In each of these  cases,  the
Company acted as a  distributor  of both brand name and "Henry  Schein"  private
brand latex gloves, which were manufactured by third parties. To date, discovery
in these cases has generally been limited to product  identification issues. The
manufacturers  in these  cases  have  withheld  indemnification  of the  Company
pending product identification;  however, the Company is taking steps to implead
those  manufacturers  into each case in which the  Company is a  defendant.  The
Company  is also a  named  defendant  in nine  lawsuits  involving  the  sale of
phentermine  and  fenfluramin.  Plaintiffs in the cases allege injuries from the
combined  use of the drugs known as  "Phen/fen."  The Company  expects to obtain

                                       12
<PAGE>
indemnification  from the  manufacturers  of these  products,  although  this is
dependent upon, among other things, the financial  viability of the manufacturer
and their insurers.

     In  Texas  District  Court,  Travis  County,  the  Company  and  one of its
subsidiaries  are defendants in a matter entitled Shelly E. Stromboe & Jeanne N.
Taylor,  on Behalf of  Themselves  and All Other  Similarly  Situated  vs. Henry
Schein, Inc., Easy Dental Systems, Inc. and Dentisoft,  Inc., Case No. 98-00886.
This complaint alleges among other things, negligence, breach of contract, fraud
and  violations  of certain  Texas  commercial  statutes  involving  the sale of
certain practice  management software products sold prior to 1998 under the Easy
Dental(R)  name.  In October  1999,  the  Court,  on  motion,  certified  both a
Windows(R)  Sub-Class and a DOS Sub-Class to proceed as a class action  pursuant
to Tex. R.Civ. P.42. It is estimated that 5,000 Windows(R)  customers and 15,000
DOS customers could be covered by the judge's  ruling.  In November of 1999, the
Company filed an interlocutory  appeal of the District Court's  determination to
the Texas  Court of  Appeals  on the  issue of  whether  this case was  properly
certified  as a class  action.  On  September  14,  2000,  the Court of  Appeals
affirmed the  District  Court's  certification  order.  On January 5, 2001,  the
Company filed a Petition for Review in the Texas Supreme Court asking this court
to find  "conflicts  jurisdiction"  to  permit  review of the  District  Court's
certification  order,  which appeal is now  pending.  On April 5, 2001 the Texas
Supreme Court  requested  that the parties file briefs on the merits.  On August
23, 2001,  the Texas Supreme Court  dismissed the Company's  Petition for Review
based  on lack of  conflicts  jurisdiction.  The  Company  filed  a  motion  for
rehearing  on  September  24,  2001  requesting  that the  Texas  Supreme  Court
reconsider and reverse its finding that it is without conflicts  jurisdiction to
review the case. On November 8, 2001, the Texas Supreme Court granted the motion
for rehearing and withdrew its order of August 23, 2001. The Texas Supreme Court
heard oral argument on February 6, 2002. Pending a decision by the Supreme Court
on the Petition for Review, a trial on the merits, currently scheduled for July,
2002, will be stayed.

     In February 2002, the Company was served with a summons and complaint in an
action  commenced  in the Superior  Court of New Jersey,  Law  Division,  Morris
County,  entitled  West Morris  Pediatrics,  P.A. v. Henry Schein,  Inc.,  doing
business as Caligor,  no.  MRSL-421-02.  The complaint by West Morris Pediatrics
purports  to be on behalf  of a  nationwide  class,  but there has been no court
determination  that the case may proceed as a class action.  Plaintiff  seeks to
represent a class of all physicians,  hospitals and other  healthcare  providers
throughout  New Jersey and across the United  States.  This  complaint  alleges,
among other things, breach of oral contract,  breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing,  violation of the New Jersey  Consumer Fraud Act, unjust
enrichment,  and  conversion.  The Company has not yet submitted its response to
this  complaint.  The Company  intends to vigorously  defend itself against this
claim, as well as all other claims, suits and complaints.

     The Company has various  insurance  policies,  including  product liability
insurance, covering risks and in amounts it considers adequate. In many cases in
which the Company has been sued in  connection  with  products  manufactured  by
others, the Company is provided  indemnification by the manufacturer.  There can
be no assurance  that the coverage  maintained  by the Company is  sufficient or
will  be  available  in  adequate  amounts  or at a  reasonable  cost,  or  that
indemnification  agreements will provide adequate protection for the Company. In
the opinion of the Company, all pending matters are covered by insurance or will
not otherwise seriously harm the Company's financial condition.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were  submitted to a vote of the Company's  stockholders  during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001.

                                       13
<PAGE>
                                     PART II

ITEM  5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and
low reported  sales prices of the Common Stock of the Company as reported on the
NASDAQ National Market System for each quarterly  period in fiscal 2000 and 2001
and for the first quarter of fiscal 2002 through March 15, 2002.


                                                           High           Low
                                                         ---------     ---------
Fiscal 2000:
1st Quarter ........................................     $   18.81     $   10.75
2nd Quarter ........................................     $   18.50     $   13.12
3rd Quarter ........................................     $   20.63     $   13.31
4th Quarter ........................................     $   36.50     $   18.59

Fiscal 2001:
1st Quarter ........................................     $   37.44     $   27.19
2nd Quarter ........................................     $   40.57     $   29.84
3rd Quarter ........................................     $   40.00     $   31.61
4th Quarter ........................................     $   41.50     $   31.90

Fiscal 2002:
1st Quarter (Through March 15, 2002) ...............     $   46.11     $   35.22


     The Company's  Common Stock is quoted  through the NASDAQ  National  Market
tier of the NASDAQ  Stock  Market  under the symbol  "HSIC." On March 15,  2002,
there were approximately 757 holders of record of the Common Stock. On March 15,
2002, the last reported sales price was $43.51.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     The Company  does not  anticipate  paying any cash  dividends on its Common
Stock in the  foreseeable  future;  it intends to retain its earnings to finance
the expansion of its business and for general corporate purposes. Any payment of
dividends will be at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will
depend upon the earnings,  financial condition,  capital requirements,  level of
indebtedness,  contractual restrictions with respect to payment of dividends and
other  factors.  The Company's  revolving  credit  agreement,  as well as a note
payable that was repaid in January  2002,  limit the  distribution  of dividends
without the prior written consent of the lenders.

                                       14
<PAGE>
ITEM  6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The  following  selected  financial  data,  with  respect to the  Company's
financial  position and its results of operations  for each of the five years in
the period ended  December  29, 2001,  set forth below has been derived from the
Company's  consolidated  financial  statements.   The  selected  financial  data
presented below should be read in conjunction with the Financial  Statements and
Supplementary  Data in  ITEM 8 and  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in ITEM 7. The Selected Operating
Data and Net Sales By Market Data presented below have not been audited.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                        Years ended
                                                        ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        December 29,    December 30,    December 25,    December 26,    December 27,
                                                            2001            2000            1999            1998            1997
                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
                                                                (In thousands, except per share and selected operating data)
<S>                                                     <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
Statements of Operations Data:
Net sales ..........................................    $ 2,558,243     $ 2,381,721     $ 2,284,544     $ 1,922,851     $ 1,698,862
Gross profit .......................................        699,324         647,901         608,596         523,831         442,842
Selling, general and administrative
     expenses ......................................        551,574         520,288         489,364         427,635         380,233
Merger and integration costs (1) ...................             --             585          13,467          56,666          50,779
Restructuring costs (2) ............................             --          14,439              --              --              --
Operating income ...................................        147,750         112,589         105,765          39,530          11,830
Interest income ....................................         10,078           6,279           7,777           6,964           7,353
Interest expense ...................................        (17,324)        (20,409)        (23,593)        (12,050)         (7,643)
Other - net ........................................           (153)         (1,925)           (166)          1,570           1,375
Other income (expense) - net .......................         (7,399)        (16,055)        (15,982)         (3,516)          1,085
Income before taxes on income,
     minority interest and equity
     in earnings (losses) of affiliates ............        140,351          96,534          89,783          36,014          12,915
Taxes on income ....................................         51,930          36,150          35,589          20,325          17,670
Minority interest in net income (loss)
     of subsidiaries ...............................          1,462           1,757           1,690             145            (430)
Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates ..........            414          (1,878)         (2,192)            783           2,141
Net income (loss) ..................................         87,373          56,749          50,312          16,327          (2,184)

Net income (loss) per common share:
     Basic .........................................    $      2.06     $      1.38     $      1.24     $      0.42     $     (0.06)
     Diluted .......................................    $      2.01     $      1.35     $      1.21     $      0.39     $     (0.06)

Weighted average shares outstanding:
     Basic .........................................         42,366          41,244          40,585          39,305          37,531
     Diluted .......................................         43,545          42,007          41,438          41,549          37,531
</TABLE>

                                       15
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                        Years ended
                                                    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    December 29,     December 30,     December 25,     December 26,     December 27,
                                                        2001             2000             1999             1998             1997
                                                    ------------     ------------     ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                (In thousands, except per share and selected operating data)
<S>                                                 <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>
Pro Forma Data (3):
Pro forma net income (loss) ..................      $      --        $      --        $      --        $    13,748      $    (1,778)
Pro forma net income (loss) per
     common share
     Basic ...................................      $      --        $      --        $      --        $      0.35      $     (0.05)
     Diluted .................................      $      --        $      --        $      --        $      0.33      $     (0.05)

Pro forma average shares outstanding:
     Basic ...................................             --               --               --             39,305           37,531
     Diluted .................................             --               --               --             41,549           37,531

Selected Operating Data:
Number of orders shipped .....................        7,891,000        8,280,000        7,979,000        6,718,000        6,064,000
Average order size ...........................      $       324      $       288      $       286      $       286      $       280

Net Sales by Market Data:
Healthcare Distribution:
     Dental (4) ..............................      $ 1,106,580      $ 1,073,889      $ 1,047,259      $ 1,085,717      $   999,671
     Medical .................................          929,825          794,880          715,210          515,276          441,110
     Veterinary ..............................           52,744           56,421           52,050           48,492           40,852
     International (5) .......................          398,071          389,946          403,137          230,792          181,278
                                                    -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------
       Total Healthcare Distribution .........        2,487,220        2,315,136        2,217,656        1,880,277        1,662,911
Technology (6) ...............................           71,023           66,585           66,888           42,574           35,951
                                                    -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------
                                                    $ 2,558,243      $ 2,381,721      $ 2,284,544      $ 1,922,851      $ 1,698,862
                                                    ===========      ===========      ===========      ===========      ===========
Balance Sheet data:
Working capital ..............................      $   489,909      $   423,547      $   428,429      $   403,592      $   312,916
Total assets .................................        1,385,428        1,231,068        1,204,102          962,040          803,946
Total debt ...................................          261,417          276,693          363,624          209,451          148,685
Minority interest ............................            6,786            7,996            7,855            5,904            2,225
Stockholders' equity .........................          680,457          579,060          517,867          463,034          424,223
</TABLE>

(1)  Merger and  integration  costs  consist  primarily of  investment  banking,
     legal, accounting and advisory fees,  compensation,  write-off of duplicate
     management information systems, other assets and the impairment of goodwill
     arising from acquired businesses  integrated into the Company's medical and
     dental  businesses,  as well as certain other  integration  costs  incurred
     primarily in connection with the 1998  acquisition of H. Meer Dental Supply
     Co., Inc.  ("Meer") and the 1997  acquisitions of Sullivan Dental Products,
     Inc., Micro Bio-Medics,  Inc. and Dentrix Dental Systems,  Inc., which were
     accounted  for under the pooling of  interests  method of  accounting.  See
     "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
     Operations - Acquisition  Strategy" in ITEM 7 and the Financial  Statements
     and Supplementary Data in ITEM 8.

(2)  Restructuring   costs  consist  primarily  of  employee   severance  costs,
     including  severance  pay  and  benefits  of  approximately  $7.2  million,
     facility  closing costs,  primarily  lease  termination and asset write-off
     costs of  approximately  $4.4 million and  professional and consulting fees
     directly related to the restructuring  plan of approximately  $2.8 million.
     See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
     Results of Operations - Plan of  Restructuring" in ITEM 7 and the Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data in ITEM 8.

(3)  Reflects the provision  for income tax  (expense)  recoveries on previously
     untaxed  earnings of Meer as an S  Corporation  of $(0.6)  million and $0.4
     million for 1998 and 1997, respectively, and the pro forma elimination of a
     net deferred tax asset arising from Meer's conversion from an S Corporation
     to a C Corporation  of $2.0 million in 1998. See  "Management's  Discussion
     and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Acquisition
     Strategy" in ITEM 7 and the Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data in
     ITEM 8.

(4)  Dental  consists of the Company's  dental business in the United States and
     Canada.

(5)  International consists of the Company's business (primarily dental) outside
     the United States and Canada, primarily in Europe.

(6)  Technology  consists of the Company's practice management software business
     and certain other value-added products and services,  which are distributed
     primarily to healthcare professionals in the North American market.

                                       16
<PAGE>


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

     The  following  discussion  and  analysis  of  the  Company's  consolidated
financial  condition and  consolidated  results of operations  should be read in
conjunction  with the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements and related
notes thereto included in ITEM 8 herein.

GENERAL

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

     Financial  Reporting  Release No. 60,  which was  recently  released by the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  requires  all  companies  to  include  a
discussion of critical accounting policies or methods used in the preparation of
financial statements. Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements,  included
elsewhere  in this  annual  report  on Form  10-K,  includes  a  summary  of the
significant  accounting  policies  and methods  used in the  preparation  of the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

     The Company believes the following critical  accounting policies affect the
significant  judgments and estimates  used in the  preparation  of the Company's
financial statements:

Revenue Recognition

     Sales are  recorded  when  products are shipped or services are rendered to
customers,   as  the  Company   generally  has  no  significant   post  delivery
obligations,  the product  price is fixed and  determinable,  collection  of the
resulting  receivable is probable and product returns are reasonably  estimable.
Revenues  derived from post contract  customer  support for practice  management
software is deferred and recognized ratably over the period in which the support
is  to be  provided,  generally  one-year.  Revenues  from  freight  charged  to
customers are  recognized  when products are shipped.  Provisions for discounts,
rebates to customers, customer returns and other adjustments are provided for in
the period the related sales are recorded based upon historical data.

Management's Estimates

     The  discussion  and  analysis of the  Company's  financial  condition  and
results  of  operations  are based  upon the  Company's  consolidated  financial
statements.  The preparation of these financial  statements requires the Company
to make  estimates  and  judgments  that affect the reported  amounts of assets,
liabilities,  revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates estimates, including
those related to sales provisions,  as described above, volume purchase rebates,
income   taxes,   bad  debts,   inventory   reserves,   intangible   assets  and
contingencies.   The  Company  bases  it  estimates  on  historical  data,  when
available,  experience, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the combined results of which form the basis
for making  judgments about the carrying  values of assets and liabilities  that
are not readily  apparent  from other  sources.  Actual  results may differ from
these estimates.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

     At December 29, 2001, the Company has recorded approximately $288.0 million
in  goodwill  and other  intangible  assets,  net of  accumulated  amortization,
primarily   related  to  acquisitions   made  in  2001  and  prior  years.   The
recoverability  of these  assets is subject to an  impairment  test based on the
estimated  fair value of the  underlying  businesses.  (See  "Effect of Recently
Issued Accounting Standards").

                                       17
<PAGE>
PLAN OF RESTRUCTURING

     On August 1, 2000, the Company announced a comprehensive restructuring plan
designed to improve  customer  service and increase  profitability by maximizing
the  efficiency  of the  Company's  infrastructure.  In  addition  to closing or
downsizing  certain   facilities,   this  world-wide   initiative  included  the
elimination  of  approximately  300  positions,  including  open  positions,  or
approximately  5% of the total  workforce,  throughout  all  levels  within  the
organization. The restructuring plan was substantially completed at December 30,
2000.

     For the year  ended  December  30,  2000,  the  Company  incurred  one-time
restructuring costs of approximately $14.4 million,  ($9.3 million after taxes),
or  approximately  $0.22 per diluted share,  consisting  primarily of;  employee
severance  costs,  including  severance pay and benefits of  approximately  $7.2
million, facility closing costs, primarily lease termination and asset write-off
costs of  approximately  $4.4 million,  and outside  professional and consulting
fees directly related to the restructuring plan of approximately $2.8 million.

ACQUISITION STRATEGY

     The Company's results of operations in recent years have been significantly
impacted by strategies and transactions  undertaken by the Company to expand its
business, both domestically and internationally, in part, to address significant
changes in the  healthcare  industry,  including  potential  healthcare  reform,
trends  toward  managed  care,  cuts in Medicare,  consolidation  of  healthcare
distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements.

     During  the year  ended  December  29,  2001,  the  Company  completed  the
acquisition  of two  healthcare  distribution  businesses,  which  included  the
purchase  of the  remaining  50%  interest  of an  affiliate.  Neither  of these
purchases was considered material either  individually or in the aggregate.  The
two transactions  were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and
have  been  included  in  the  consolidated   financial  statements  from  their
respective acquisition dates.

     During  the year  ended  December  30,  2000,  the  Company  completed  the
acquisition  of  two  healthcare  distribution  businesses  and  one  technology
business,  none of which were considered  material either individually or in the
aggregate. Of the three completed acquisitions, two were accounted for under the
purchase  method of accounting and the remaining  acquisition  was accounted for
under the pooling of interests method of accounting.  The Company issued 465,480
shares of its  Common  Stock,  with an  aggregate  value of  approximately  $7.9
million in connection with the pooling transaction.  The transactions  completed
under the purchase method of accounting  have been included in the  consolidated
financial  statements  from their  respective  acquisition  dates.  The  pooling
transaction was not material and, accordingly, prior period financial statements
have not been  restated.  Results of the acquired  company have been included in
the consolidated  financial  statements from the beginning of the second quarter
of 2000.

     During  the year  ended  December  25,  1999,  the  Company  completed  the
acquisition  of eight  healthcare  distribution  businesses  and one  technology
business.  The completed acquisitions included General Injectables and Vaccines,
Inc. ("GIV"), and the international  dental,  medical and veterinary  healthcare
distribution  businesses  of Heiland  Holding GmbH (the "Heiland  Group").  GIV,
which  had  1998  net  sales  of  approximately  $120.0  million,  is a  leading
independent  direct  marketer  of  vaccines  and other  injectable  products  to
office-based  practitioners in the United States. The Heiland Group, the largest
direct marketer of healthcare supplies to office-based practitioners in Germany,
had 1998 net sales of approximately $130.0 million.  The acquisition  agreements
for GIV provides for  additional  cash  consideration  of up to $6.0 million per
year through 2004,  not to exceed $22.5 million in total,  to be paid if certain
profitability targets are met. The remaining seven acquisitions had combined net
sales of  approximately  $74.0 million for 1998.  Six of the  acquisitions  were
accounted  for  under  the purchase method of accounting,  while  the  remaining

                                       18
<PAGE>
acquisition  was  accounted  for  under  the  pooling  of  interests  method  of
accounting.  Results of  operations of the business  acquisitions  accounted for
under the purchase method of accounting  have been included in the  consolidated
financial  statements  commencing  with the  acquisition  dates.  The total cash
purchase price paid for the acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting  was  approximately  $137.2  million.  The Company  issued 189,833
shares of its Common  Stock with an  aggregate  market  value of $6.4 million in
connection  with  the  pooling  transaction.  The  pooling  transaction  was not
material  and,  accordingly,  prior period  financial  statements  have not been
restated. Results of the acquired company have been included in the consolidated
financial  statements from the beginning of the quarter in which the acquisition
occurred.

     In connection  with the 2000 and 1999  acquisitions,  the Company  incurred
certain merger and  integration  costs of  approximately  $0.6 million and $13.5
million,   respectively.  Net  of  taxes,  merger  and  integration  costs  were
approximately  $0.01 and  $0.23 per  share,  on a diluted  basis,  respectively.
Merger and  integration  costs for the  healthcare  distribution  and technology
segments  were $0.0 million and $0.6 million for 2000 and $13.5 million and $0.0
million for 1999,  respectively.  Merger and integration costs consist primarily
of  investment  banking,   legal,   accounting  and  advisory  fees,  severance,
impairment of goodwill  arising from  acquired  businesses  integrated  into the
Company's  medical and dental  businesses,  as well as certain other integration
costs associated with these mergers.

     Excluding the merger, integration,  and restructuring costs of $9.9 million
after tax and  losses of $3.5  million  after tax on  disposals  of (i) a United
Kingdom practice  management  software  development  business unit, and (ii) the
sale of a 50% interest in a dental  anesthetic  manufacturer,  in 2000,  and the
merger and  integration  costs of $9.5 million after tax in 1999,  pro forma net
income and pro forma net income per common share, on a diluted basis, would have
been $70.1  million,  and $1.67,  respectively,  for the year ended December 30,
2000, and $59.8 million and $1.44, respectively, for the year ended December 25,
1999.

                                       19
<PAGE>
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, Net Sales, Gross
Profit and Adjusted  Operating  Profit,  excluding merger and  integration,  and
restructuring  costs (in  thousands),  by  business  segment for the years ended
2001, 2000, and 1999. Percentages are calculated on related net sales.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            2001                   2000                   1999
                                     ------------------     ------------------     ------------------
<S>                                  <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>
Net Sales by Segment Data:
Healthcare distribution:
     Dental (1) ..................   $1,106,580   43.2%     $1,073,889   45.1%     $1,047,259   45.8%
     Medical .....................      929,825   36.3%        794,880   33.4%        715,210   31.3%
     Veterinary ..................       52,744    2.1%         56,421    2.4%         52,050    2.3%
     International (2) ...........      398,071   15.6%        389,946   16.4%        403,137   17.6%
                                     ----------  ------     ----------  ------     ----------  ------
     Total healthcare distribution    2,487,220   97.2%      2,315,136   97.2%      2,217,656   97.1%
Technology (3) ...................       71,023    2.8%         66,585    2.8%         66,888    2.9%
                                     ----------  ------     ----------  ------     ----------  ------
     Total .......................   $2,558,243  100.0%     $2,381,721  100.0%     $2,284,544  100.0%
                                     ==========  ======     ==========  ======     ==========  ======

Gross Profit by Segment Data:
Healthcare distribution ..........   $  649,469   26.1%     $  601,036   26.0%     $  563,107   25.4%
Technology .......................       49,855   70.2%         46,865   70.4%         45,489   68.0%
                                     ----------             ----------             ----------
     Total .......................   $  699,324   27.3%     $  647,901   27.2%     $  608,596   26.6%
                                     ==========  ======     ==========  ======     ==========  ======

Adjusted Operating Profit
(excluding merger and
integration, and
restructuring costs) by
Segment Data:
Healthcare distribution (4) ......   $  123,767    5.0%     $  102,953    4.4%     $   93,934    4.2%
Technology (5) ...................       23,983   33.8%         24,660   37.0%         25,298   37.8%
                                     ----------             ----------             ----------
     Total .......................   $  147,750    5.8%     $  127,613    5.4%     $  119,232    5.2%
                                     ==========  ======     ==========  ======     ==========  ======
</TABLE>

(1)  Dental  consists of the Company's  dental business in the United States and
     Canada.

(2)  International consists of the Company's business (primarily dental) outside
     the United States and Canada, primarily in Europe.

(3)  Technology  consists of the Company's practice management software business
     and certain other value-added products and services,  which are distributed
     primarily to healthcare professionals in the North American market.

(4)  Excludes merger and integration,  and restructuring  costs of $0.0 million,
     $14.1 million, and $13.5 million in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

(5)  Excludes merger and integration,  and restructuring  costs of $0.0 million,
     $1.0 million, and $0.0 million in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

2001 COMPARED TO 2000

     The company reports  financial  results on a 52-53 week basis and, as such,
the 2000 fiscal year included an additional  week.  For the year ended  December
29, 2001, net sales increased  $176.5 million,  or 7.4%, to $2,558.2  million in
2001 from  $2,381.7  million  in 2000.  On a  comparable  basis  (excluding  the
additional week in 2000), net sales growth was approximately 8.7%. Of the $176.5
million increase,  approximately  $172.1 million,  or 97.5%,  represented a 7.4%
(8.7% on a comparable basis) increase in the Company's  healthcare  distribution
business.  As part of this increase,  approximately $135.0 million represented a
17.0%  (18.6% on a comparable  basis)  increase in its medical  business,  $32.7
million  represented a 3.0% (4.0% on a comparable  basis) increase in its dental
business,  $8.1 million represented a 2.1% (3.5% on a comparable basis) increase
in the Company's  international  business, and $(3.7) million represented a 6.5%
(5.2% on a comparable basis) decrease in the Company's veterinary business.  The
increase in medical net sales was primarily  attributable  to increased sales to
core physicians'  office and alternate care markets.  In the dental market,  the

                                       20
<PAGE>
increase in net sales was primarily due to increased account penetration. In the
international  market,  the increase in net sales was primarily due to increased
account penetration in Germany, France, and the United Kingdom,  somewhat offset
by  unfavorable  exchange  rates  to the  U.S.  dollar.  Had net  sales  for the
international  market been  translated at the same exchange  rates in 2000,  net
sales would have  increased by 5.8%. In the veterinary  market,  the decrease in
net  sales  was  primarily  due to the loss of a  product  line.  The  remaining
increase in 2001 net sales was due to the technology  business,  which increased
$4.4 million,  or 6.7% (7.6% on a comparable  basis), to $71.0 million for 2001,
from $66.6 million for 2000. The increase in technology and value-added  product
net sales was  primarily  due to  increased  sales of  technology  products  and
related services.

     Gross profit  increased by $51.4  million,  or 7.9%,  to $699.3  million in
2001,  from $647.9  million in 2000.  Gross profit  margin  increased by 0.1% to
27.3%  from  27.2% in the  prior  year.  Healthcare  distribution  gross  profit
increased by $48.4  million,  or 8.1%,  to $649.4  million in 2001,  from $601.0
million in 2000. Healthcare  distribution gross profit margin increased by 0.1%,
to 26.1%,  from 26.0% in the prior year  primarily  due to changes in sales mix.
Technology gross profit increased by $3.0 million,  or 6.4%, to $49.9 million in
2001, from $46.9 million in 2000.  Technology  gross profit margin  decreased by
0.2%, to 70.2%,  from 70.4% in the prior year  primarily due to changes in sales
mix.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $31.3 million, or
6.0%,  to $551.6  million  in 2001 from  $520.3  million  in 2000.  Selling  and
shipping expenses increased by $23.5 million, or 7.6%, to $334.1 million in 2001
from $310.6 million in 2000. As a percentage of net sales,  selling and shipping
expenses  increased  0.1% to 13.1% in 2001  from  13.0%  in  2000.  General  and
administrative  expenses  increased $7.8 million,  or 3.7%, to $217.5 million in
2001 from $209.7  million in 2000.  As a  percentage  of net sales,  general and
administrative  expenses  decreased  0.3% to 8.5% in 2001 from 8.8% in 2000. The
decrease  was  primarily  due to  reductions  in  expenses  associated  with the
Company's restructuring program.

     Other income (expense) - net decreased by $(8.7) million, to $(7.4) million
in 2001 from $(16.1)  million for 2000, due primarily to higher  interest income
on long-term loans receivable and short-term investments,  higher finance charge
income on trade accounts receivable, lower interest expense due to reductions in
long-term  debt and bank credit line balances and lower interest  rates,  and in
2000,  the  nonrecurring  loss  of $1.6  million  after  tax on the  sale of the
Company's software development unit in the United Kingdom.

     Equity in earnings  (losses) of affiliates  increased  $2.3 million to $0.4
million in 2001 from $(1.9)  million in 2000. The increase is primarily due to a
nonrecurring net loss of $1.9 million during the fourth quarter of 2000 from the
sale   of  the   Company's   interest   in  HS   Pharmaceutical,   Inc.   ("H.S.
Pharmaceutical").

     For 2001,  the  Company's  effective  tax rate was  37.0%.  The  difference
between the Company's  effective tax rate and the Federal statutory rate relates
primarily to state income taxes.

     For 2000, the Company's effective tax rate was 37.4%.  Excluding merger and
integration  costs,  the  majority  of which are not  deductible  for income tax
purposes, the Company's effective tax rate would have been 37.3%. The difference
between the Company's  effective tax rate and the Federal statutory rate relates
primarily to state income taxes.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999

         Net sales increased $97.2 million, or 4.3%, to $2,381.7 million in 2000
from  $2,284.5  million in 1999. Of the $97.2  million  increase,  approximately
$97.5  million,  or  100.3%,  represented  a  4.4%  increase  in  the  Company's
healthcare distribution business. As part of this increase,  approximately $79.7
million  represented  a 11.1%  increase in its medical  business,  $26.6 million
represented a 2.5% increase in its dental business,  $4.4 million  represented a
8.4%  increase  in  the  Company's  veterinary  business,  and  $(13.2)  million
represented  a  3.3%  decrease  in the  Company's  international  business.  The
increase in medical net sales was primarily  attributable  to increased sales to
core physicians'  office and alternate care markets.  In the dental market,  the

                                       21
<PAGE>
increase in net sales was primarily due to increased account penetration. In the
veterinary  market,  the  increase in net sales was  primarily  due to increased
account penetration.  In the international market, the decrease in net sales was
primarily due to  unfavorable  exchange rate  translation  adjustments.  Had net
sales for the international market been translated at the same exchange rates in
1999, net sales would have increased by 8.4%. The remaining decrease in 2000 net
sales was due to the technology  business,  which decreased  $(0.3) million,  or
0.3%,  to $66.6 million for 2000,  from $66.9 million for 1999.  The decrease in
technology and value-added  product net sales was primarily due to a decrease in
practice  management  software  sales,  which was  exceptionally  strong in 1999
primarily due to Year 2000 conversions.

     Gross profit  increased by $39.3  million,  or 6.5%,  to $647.9  million in
2000,  from $608.6  million in 1999.  Gross profit  margin  increased by 0.6% to
27.2% from 26.6% last year.  Healthcare  distribution  gross profit increased by
$37.9 million,  or 6.7%, to $601.0 million in 2000, from $563.1 million in 1999.
Healthcare  distribution  gross profit margin increased by 0.6%, to 26.0%,  from
25.4% last year primarily due to changes in sales mix.  Technology  gross profit
increased by $1.4 million, or 3.0%, to $46.9 million in 2000, from $45.5 million
in 1999.  Technology gross profit margin increased by 2.4%, to 70.4%, from 68.0%
last year also primarily due to changes in sales mix.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $30.9 million, or
6.3%,  to $520.3  million  in 2000 from  $489.4  million  in 1999.  Selling  and
shipping expenses increased by $9.7 million,  or 3.2%, to $310.6 million in 2000
from $300.9 million in 1999. As a percentage of net sales,  selling and shipping
expenses  decreased 0.2% to 13.0% in 2000 from 13.2% in 1999.  This decrease was
primarily  due  to  improvement  in  the  Company's  distribution   efficiencies
resulting  from the  leveraging  of the Company's  distribution  infrastructure.
General and administrative expenses increased $21.2 million, or 11.2%, to $209.7
million  in  2000  from  $188.5  million  in  1999,  primarily  as a  result  of
acquisitions.  As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative expenses
increased 0.5% to 8.8% in 2000 from 8.3% in 1999.

     Other income (expense) - net changed by $(0.1) million,  to $(16.1) million
for the year ended December 30, 2000 from $(16.0) million for 1999 primarily due
to the non-recurring loss of approximately $1.6 million,  or approximately $0.04
per diluted share, from the sale of the Company's  software  development unit in
the United Kingdom and lower interest  income on accounts  receivable  balances,
offset by a decrease in interest  expense  resulting  from a decrease in average
borrowings.

     Equity in losses of affiliates  decreased $0.3 million or 13.6%,  to $(1.9)
million in 2000 from $(2.2)  million in 1999.  The net decrease is primarily due
to increased  earnings from an affiliate  offset by a non-recurring  net loss of
approximately  $1.9 million,  or approximately  $0.05 per diluted share from the
sale of the Company's interest in HS Pharmaceutical during the fourth quarter of
2000.

     For 2000, the Company's effective tax rate was 37.4%.  Excluding merger and
integration  costs,  the  majority  of which are not  deductible  for income tax
purposes, the Company's effective tax rate would have been 37.3%. The difference
between the  Company's  effective  tax rate,  excluding  merger and  integration
costs, and the Federal statutory rate relates primarily to state income taxes.

     For 1999, the Company's effective tax rate was 39.6%.  Excluding merger and
integration  costs,  the  majority  of which are not  deductible  for income tax
purposes, the Company's effective tax rate would have been 38.3%. The difference
between the  Company's  effective  tax rate,  excluding  merger and  integration
costs, and the Federal statutory rate relates primarily to state income taxes.

                                       22
<PAGE>
SEASONALITY

     The  Company's   business  is  subject  to  seasonal  and  other  quarterly
influences.  Net sales and operating  profits are generally higher in the fourth
quarter due to timing of sales of software and  equipment,  year-end  promotions
and  purchasing  patterns  of  office-based  healthcare  practitioners  and  are
generally lower in the first quarter due primarily to the increased purchases in
the prior  quarter.  Quarterly  results  also may be  materially  affected  by a
variety of other  factors,  including  the timing of  acquisitions  and  related
costs,  timing of purchases,  special  promotional  campaigns,  fluctuations  in
exchange rates  associated  with  international  operations and adverse  weather
conditions.

EURO CONVERSION

     Effective  January 1, 2000,  11 of the 15 member  countries of the European
Union  adopted  the Euro as their  common  legal  currency.  On that  date,  the
participating  countries  established  fixed Euro conversion rates between their
existing  sovereign  currencies  and the Euro. The  participating  countries now
issue sovereign debt  exclusively in Euro, and have  re-denominated  outstanding
sovereign debt. The authority to direct  monetary  policy for the  participating
countries,  including money supply and official  interest rates for the Euro, is
now exercised by the new European Central Bank.

     Beginning on January 1, 2002,  Euro  banknotes  were put into  circulation.
There  was a  changeover  period  of two  months  during  which  there  was dual
circulation  - where  both Euro and  national  currencies  were  used  together.
Following  the  changeover  period,  the  national  currencies  were  completely
replaced by the Euro.

     During  2001,  the Company  successfully  converted  all of their  European
information  systems  in order to achieve  timely  Euro  information  system and
product readiness, so as to conduct transactions in the Euro, in accordance with
implementation schedules as they are established by the European Commission. The
costs of these changes were not material to the Company and are included as part
of operating expenses for 2001.

E-COMMERCE

     Traditional  healthcare  supply and  distribution  relationships  are being
challenged by electronic on-line commerce solutions.  The Company's distribution
business  is  characterized  by rapid  technological  developments  and  intense
competition.  The rapid  evolution of on-line  commerce will require  continuous
improvement in  performance,  features and  reliability of Internet  content and
technology by the Company,  particularly  in response to competitive  offerings.
Through the  Company's  proprietary  technologically  based  suite of  products,
customers  are  offered a variety of  competitive  alternatives.  The  Company's
tradition of reliable service, proven name recognition,  and large customer base
built on solid  customer  relationships  makes it well  situated to  participate
fully in this rapidly growing aspect of the distribution  business.  The Company
is exploring ways and means of improving and expanding its Internet presence and
will continue to do so. In January 2001, the Company  announced the unveiling of
a  new  website   (http://www.henryschein.com),   which  includes  an  array  of
value-added  features.  As  part of  this  effort,  the  Company  also  launched
http://www.sullivanschein.com  website for its office-based  dental practitioner
customers.

INFLATION

     Management does not believe  inflation had a material adverse effect on the
financial statements for the periods presented.

                                       23
<PAGE>
EFFECT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     (A) In June 2001, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board finalized FASB
Statements No. 141, Business Combinations ("FAS 141"), and No. 142, Goodwill and
Other  Intangible  Assets ("FAS 142").  FAS 141 requires the use of the purchase
method of accounting and prohibits the use of the pooling-of-interests method of
accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. FAS 141 also
requires  that the  Company  recognize  acquired  intangible  assets  apart from
goodwill if the  acquired  intangible  assets  meet  certain  criteria.  FAS 141
applies to all  business  combinations  initiated  after  June 30,  2001 and for
purchase  business  combinations  completed  on or after July 1,  2001.  It also
requires,  upon adoption of FAS 142, that the Company reclassify,  if necessary,
the carrying amounts of intangible  assets and goodwill based on the criteria in
FAS 141.

     FAS 142 requires,  among other things,  that  companies no longer  amortize
goodwill,  but instead  test  goodwill  for  impairment  at least  annually.  In
addition,  FAS 142 requires that the Company  identify  reporting  units for the
purposes of assessing  potential  future  impairments of goodwill,  reassess the
useful  lives  of  other  existing  recognized   intangible  assets,  and  cease
amortization of intangible  assets with an indefinite useful life. An intangible
asset  with an  indefinite  useful  life  should be  tested  for  impairment  in
accordance  with the  guidance in FAS 142.  FAS 142 is required to be applied in
fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  2001 to all  goodwill  and other
intangible assets recognized at that date,  regardless of when those assets were
initially  recognized.   FAS  142  also  requires  the  Company  to  complete  a
transitional  goodwill  impairment  test  within  six  months  from  the date of
adoption.  The Company is also  required to reassess  the useful  lives of other
intangible assets within the first interim quarter after adoption of FAS 142.

     Certain of the Company's business  combinations  effected prior to June 30,
2001  were  accounted  for  using  both the  pooling-of-interests  and  purchase
methods. The  pooling-of-interests  method does not result in the recognition of
acquired goodwill or other intangible  assets. As a result,  the adoption of FAS
141 and FAS 142 will not have any effect  with  respect to the  Company's  prior
transactions  that were  accounted  for under the  pooling-of-interests  method.
However,  all  future  business  combinations  will be  accounted  for under the
purchase  method,  which may result in the  recognition  of  goodwill  and other
intangible assets. With respect to the Company's business combinations that were
effected prior to June 30, 2001,  using the purchase  method of accounting,  the
net carrying amounts of the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets as of
December  29,  2001  were  $280.0   million  and  $8.0  million,   respectively.
Amortization  expense  during the year ended December 29, 2001 was $12.9 million
of which  $11.6  million  was  amortization  of  goodwill  and $1.3  million was
amortization of other intangibles.  The Company has estimated that the impact of
not  amortizing  goodwill  on the results of  operations  will be an increase of
approximately  $0.17 per diluted share in 2002. The Company is still determining
the  reporting  units  to be  used  for its  goodwill  impairment  testing,  and
accordingly,  has not  determined  the impact,  if any, from the results of such
testing.

     (B) In August 2001, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 144,  Accounting for
the  Impairment or Disposal of  Long-Lived  Assets ("FAS 144").  This  statement
supercedes  FASB Statement No. 121,  Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets  and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be  Disposed Of  ("FAS 121")  and  amends
Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 30,  Reporting  Results of Operations -
Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary,
Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions.  FAS 144 retains the
fundamental provisions of FAS 121 for recognition and measurement of impairment,
but amends the accounting and reporting  standards for segments of a business to
be disposed of. FAS 144 is effective for fiscal years  beginning  after December
15, 2001, and interim periods within those fiscal years,  with early application
encouraged. The provisions of FAS 144 generally are to be applied prospectively.
The  Company  believes  that the  adoption  of FAS 144 will not have a  material
impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

                                       24
<PAGE>
RISK MANAGEMENT

     The  Company  has  operations  in the  United  States,  Canada,  the United
Kingdom, The Netherlands,  Belgium,  Germany,  France, Austria, Spain, Australia
and New  Zealand.  Substantially  all of the  Company's  operations  endeavor to
protect their financial  results by using foreign currency forward  contracts to
hedge  intercompany  debt and the foreign currency  payments to foreign vendors.
The total U.S.  dollar  equivalent  of all foreign  currency  forward  contracts
hedging debt and the  purchase of  merchandise  from  foreign  vendors was $44.1
million and $2.6  million,  respectively,  as of the end of fiscal  2001.  As of
December 29, 2001 the fair value of these  contracts,  which are  determined  by
quoted market prices and expire through November 2002, was not material. For the
year ended December 29, 2001, the Company recognized an immaterial loss relating
to its foreign currency forward contracts.

     The Company  considers  its  investment  in foreign  operations  to be both
long-term and strategic.  As a result,  the Company does not hedge the long-term
translation  exposure to its balance sheet. The Company has experienced negative
translation  adjustments of approximately  $5.7 million and $7.8 million in 2001
and 2000, respectively, which adjustments were reflected in the balance sheet as
a component of stockholders'  equity. The cumulative  translation  adjustment at
the end of 2001 showed a net negative translation adjustment of $23.9 million.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company's principal capital  requirements have been to fund (a) capital
expenditures,  (b)  repayments  on bank  borrowings,  (c) working  capital needs
resulting from increased sales,  special inventory forward buy-in  opportunities
and (d) acquisitions. Since sales tend to be strongest during the fourth quarter
and special  inventory  forward  buy-in  opportunities  are most  prevalent just
before the end of the year, the Company's working capital requirements have been
generally  higher  from the end of the  third  quarter  to the end of the  first
quarter of the following  year. The Company has financed its business  primarily
through its operations, its revolving credit facilities, private placement loans
and stock issuances.

     Net cash provided by operating  activities  for the year ended December 29,
2001 of $190.9  million  resulted  primarily  from net income of $87.4  million,
non-cash charges of approximately $54.2 million, and a net increase in operating
items of working capital of approximately $49.3 million. The increase in working
capital was  primarily  due to an increase in accounts  payable and  accruals of
$55.1  million,  a $8.8 million  decrease in other  current  assets,  and a $3.2
million decrease in accounts  receivable,  offset by a $17.8 million increase in
inventories.  The Company's  accounts  receivable days sales  outstanding  ratio
improved to 53.52 days for the period  ending  December 29, 2001 from 57.07 days
for the period ending December 30, 2000. The Company's  inventory turns improved
to 6.93  inventory  turns for the  period  ending  December  29,  2001 from 6.28
inventory turns for the period ending December 30, 2000. The Company anticipates
future  increases in working  capital  requirements as a result of its continued
sales  growth,  extended  payment  terms and special  inventory  forward  buy-in
opportunities.

     Net cash used in investing  activities for the year ended December 29, 2001
of $55.1 million resulted  primarily from cash used for capital  expenditures of
$46.1  million,  of which  $10.2  million  was for the  Company's  new  mid-west
distribution center, and business acquisitions of $8.6 million.  During the past
three years,  the Company has invested  $110.4 million in the development of new
computer systems, and for new and existing operating  facilities.  In the coming
year, the Company expects to invest in excess of $50 million in capital projects
to modernize and expand its facilities and infrastructure  computer systems, and
integrate operations.

     Net cash provided by financing  activities  for the year ended December 29,
2001 of $0.4 million resulted primarily from proceeds from the issuance of stock
upon  exercise  of stock  options  of $14.2  million,  offset  primarily  by net

                                       25
<PAGE>
payments on borrowings from banks of $10.8 million and net payments on long-term
debt of $2.9 million.

     Certain holders of minority  interests in acquired  entities have the right
at certain times to require the Company to acquire their  interest at fair value
pursuant to a formula price based on earnings of the entity.

     The Company's  cash and cash  equivalents as of December 29, 2001 of $193.4
million  consist of bank balances and  investments in money market funds.  These
investments  have staggered  maturity dates,  none of which exceed three months,
and have a high degree of liquidity  since the securities are actively traded in
public markets.

     The Company entered into an amended revolving credit facility on August 15,
1997 that increased its main credit  facility to $150.0 million and extended the
facility termination date to August 15, 2002. There were no borrowings under the
credit facility at December 29, 2001. The Company expects to renew the revolving
line of credit prior to its scheduled  termination  in August 2002.  The Company
also has one  uncommitted  bank line of $15.0 million,  of which no amounts have
been borrowed against at December 29, 2001.

     On June 30, 1999 and  September  25, 1998,  the Company  completed  private
placement  transactions under which it issued $130.0 million and $100.0 million,
respectively, in Senior Notes, the proceeds of which were used respectively, for
the permanent  financing of its  acquisitions  of GIV and the Heiland Group,  as
well as repaying  and retiring a portion of four  uncommitted  bank lines and to
pay down amounts owed under its revolving  credit  facility.  The $130.0 million
notes come due on June 30, 2009 and bear  interest at a rate of 6.94% per annum.
Principal  payments totaling $20.0 million are due annually  starting  September
25, 2006 on the $100.0  million  notes and bear  interest at a rate of 6.66% per
annum. Interest on both notes is payable semi-annually. Certain of the Company's
subsidiaries  have credit  facilities that totaled $39.9 million at December 29,
2001 under which $4.0 million had been borrowed.

     The aggregate  purchase price of the  acquisitions  completed  during 1999,
including the  acquisition of the minority  interests of two  subsidiaries,  was
approximately $139.0 million, payable $132.6 million in cash and $6.4 million in
stock.  The  acquisitions  of GIV and  the  Heiland  Group  were  funded  by the
Company's  revolving credit agreement and various short-term  borrowings entered
into in January 1999.  Existing  borrowing lines primarily  funded the remaining
cash portion of the purchases.

     The following table shows the Company's contractual  obligations related to
fixed and variable rate long-term debt as well as lease obligations (See Notes 9
and 14(a) to the Consolidated financial statements):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Payments due by period (in thousands)

                                               Total       < 1 year   1 - 3 years  4 - 5 years   > 5 years
                                              --------     --------   -----------  -----------   ---------
Contractual obligations:
<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Long term debt ............................   $255,252     $ 14,392     $  2,543     $ 21,222     $217,095
Capital lease obligations .................      2,140          831          562          227          520
Operating lease obligations ...............    106,558       19,866       32,387       24,138       30,167
                                              --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
Total .....................................   $363,950     $ 35,089     $ 35,492     $ 45,587     $247,782
                                              ========     ========     ========     ========     ========

</TABLE>

     The Company  believes that its cash and cash  equivalents of $193.4 million
as of  December  29,  2001,  its ability to access  public and private  debt and
equity  markets,  and the  availability  of  funds  under  its  existing  credit

                                       26
<PAGE>

agreements  will  provide it with  sufficient  liquidity  to meet its  currently
foreseeable short-term and long-term capital needs.


ITEM 7A.  MARKET RISKS

     The Company is exposed to market risks,  which include  changes in U.S. and
international  interest  rates as well as changes in foreign  currency  exchange
rates as measured  against the U.S. dollar and each other.  The Company attempts
to reduce these risks by utilizing  financial  instruments,  pursuant to Company
policies.

Forward Foreign Currency Contracts

     The value of certain foreign  currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar may
affect the Company's financial results. Changes in exchange rates may positively
or  negatively  affect the Company's  revenues (as  expressed in U.S.  dollars),
gross margins,  operating  expenses,  and retained  earnings.  Where the Company
deems it prudent, it engages in hedging programs aimed at limiting, in part, the
impact of currency fluctuations. Using primarily forward exchange contracts, the
Company hedges those transactions that, when remeasured  according to accounting
principles  generally accepted in the United States, may impact its statement of
income.  From time to time, the Company  purchases  short-term  forward exchange
contracts  to  protect  against  currency  exchange  risks  associated  with the
ultimate  repayment of intercompany  loans due from the Company's  international
subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise  purchases to foreign vendors. As of
December  29,  2001,  the  Company  had  outstanding  foreign  currency  forward
contracts   aggregating  $46.7  million,  of  which  $44.1  million  related  to
intercompany  debt and $2.6 million related to the purchase of merchandise  from
foreign vendors.  The contracts hedge against  currency  fluctuations of British
Pounds ($24.1 million), Euros ($21.1 million) Australian dollars ($1.3 million),
and New Zealand dollars ($0.2  million).  As of December 29, 2001 the fair value
of these  contracts,  which are  determined  by quoted  market prices and expire
through  November 2002, was not material.  For the year ended December 29, 2001,
the Company  recognized  an  immaterial  loss  relating to its foreign  currency
forward contracts.

     These hedging  activities  provide only limited protection against currency
exchange  risks.  Factors that could impact the  effectiveness  of the Company's
programs include volatility of the currency markets, and availability of hedging
instruments.  All  currency  contracts  that are entered into by the Company are
components  of hedging  programs  and are entered  into for the sole  purpose of
hedging an existing  or  anticipated  currency  exposure,  not for  speculation.
Although the Company maintains these programs to reduce the impact of changes in
currency exchange rates, when the U. S. dollar sustains a strengthening position
against  currencies  in which the Company  sells  products  and  services,  or a
weakening  exchange rate against  currencies in which the Company  incurs costs,
the Company's revenues or costs are adversely affected.

Interest Rates

     The  Company  is  exposed  to risk from  changes  in  interest  rates  from
borrowings  under certain  variable bank credit lines and loan  agreements.  The
Company  has fixed rate debt of $130.0  million  at 6.94% and $100.0  million at
6.66%. If the remaining  outstanding  debt at December 29, 2001 of $31.4 million
was the average  balance for the  following  twelve month period and the Company
experienced a 1% increase in average  interest rates,  the interest  expense for
that period would have  increased by $0.3 million.  Based upon current  economic
conditions,   the  Company  does  not  believe   interest  rates  will  increase
substantially in the near future.  As a result,  the Company does not believe it
is  necessary to hedge its  exposure  against  potential  future  interest  rate
increases.

                                       27
<PAGE>
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                      HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants.........................  29

Consolidated Financial Statements:

      Balance Sheets as of December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000.........  30

      Statements of  Income and Comprehensive Income for the years ended
               December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000, and December 25, 1999.  31

      Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 29,
               2001, December 30, 2000 and December 25, 1999...............  32

      Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 29, 2001,
               December 30, 2000 and December 25, 1999.....................  33

      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...........................  34

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants.........................  62


Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, for the years ended
              December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000, and December 25, 1999..  67


All other  schedules  are omitted  because the  required  information  is either
inapplicable  or is included in the  consolidated  financial  statements  or the
notes thereto.

                                       28
<PAGE>
               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


Board of Directors and Stockholders
Henry Schein, Inc.
Melville, New York

     We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Henry
Schein, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000, and
the  related  consolidated   statements  of  income  and  comprehensive  income,
stockholders'  equity and cash  flows for each of the three  years in the period
ended December 29, 2001. These financial  statements are the  responsibility  of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards  require that we plan
and  perform  the  audits to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the
financial  statements  are free of  material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes
examining,  on a test basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the  financial  statements.  An audit also  includes  assessing  the  accounting
principles  used  and  significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as well as
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Henry
Schein,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  at December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 29, 2001 in conformity with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.


BDO SEIDMAN, LLP



New York, New York
March 1, 2002

                                       29
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (In thousands, except share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               December 29,   December 30,
                                                                                   2001           2000
                                                                               ------------   ------------
<S>                                                                            <C>            <C>
                                     ASSETS
Current assets:
     Cash and cash equivalents .............................................   $   193,367    $    58,362
     Accounts receivable, less reserves of $31,929 and $27,556, respectively       363,700        371,668
     Inventories ...........................................................       291,231        276,473
     Deferred income taxes .................................................        25,751         21,001
     Prepaid expenses and other ............................................        52,922         60,900
                                                                               -----------    -----------
          Total current assets .............................................       926,971        788,404
Property and equipment, net ................................................       117,980         94,663
Goodwill and other intangibles, net ........................................       288,004        292,018
Investments and other ......................................................        52,473         55,983
                                                                               -----------    -----------
                                                                               $ 1,385,428    $ 1,231,068
                                                                               ===========    ===========

                    LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
     Accounts payable ......................................................   $   263,190    $   216,535
     Bank credit lines .....................................................         4,025          4,390
     Accruals:
          Salaries and related expenses ....................................        41,602         39,830
          Merger, integration, and restructuring costs .....................         5,867         13,735
          Acquisition earnout payments .....................................        26,800         15,500
          Other expenses ...................................................        80,355         68,788
     Current maturities of long-term debt ..................................        15,223          6,079
                                                                               -----------    -----------
          Total current liabilities ........................................       437,062        364,857
Long-term debt .............................................................       242,169        266,224
Other liabilities ..........................................................        18,954         12,931
                                                                               -----------    -----------
          Total liabilities ................................................       698,185        644,012
                                                                               -----------    -----------
Minority interest ..........................................................         6,786          7,996
                                                                               -----------    -----------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
     Preferred stock, $.01 par value, authorized 1,000,000,
          issued and outstanding 0 and 0, respectively .....................          --             --
     Common stock, $.01 par value, authorized 120,000,000,
          issued: 42,745,204 and 41,946,284, respectively ..................           427            419
     Additional paid-in capital ............................................       393,047        373,413
     Retained earnings .....................................................       312,402        225,029
     Treasury stock, at cost, 62,479 shares ................................        (1,156)        (1,156)
     Accumulated comprehensive loss ........................................       (23,922)       (18,179)
     Deferred compensation .................................................          (341)          (466)
                                                                               -----------    -----------
          Total stockholders' equity .......................................       680,457        579,060
                                                                               -----------    -----------
                                                                               $ 1,385,428    $ 1,231,068
                                                                               ===========    ===========

</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       30
<PAGE>

                 HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                      AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                (In thousands, except per share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                       Years ended
                                                                        ------------------------------------------
                                                                        December 29,   December 30,   December 25,
                                                                            2001           2000           1999
                                                                        ------------   ------------   ------------

<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
Net sales ...........................................................   $ 2,558,243    $ 2,381,721    $ 2,284,544
Cost of sales .......................................................     1,858,919      1,733,820      1,675,948
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
     Gross profit ...................................................       699,324        647,901        608,596
Operating expenses:
     Selling, general and administrative ............................       551,574        520,288        489,364
     Merger and integration costs ...................................          --              585         13,467
     Restructuring costs ............................................          --           14,439           --
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
          Operating income ..........................................       147,750        112,589        105,765
Other income (expense):
     Interest income ................................................        10,078          6,279          7,777
     Interest expense ...............................................       (17,324)       (20,409)       (23,593)
     Other - net ....................................................          (153)        (1,925)          (166)
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
          Income before taxes on income, minority interest and equity
               in earnings (losses) of affiliates ...................       140,351         96,534         89,783
Taxes on income .....................................................        51,930         36,150         35,589
Minority interest in net income of subsidiaries .....................         1,462          1,757          1,690
Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates ...........................           414         (1,878)        (2,192)
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
Net income ..........................................................   $    87,373    $    56,749    $    50,312
                                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
Net income ..........................................................   $    87,373    $    56,749    $    50,312
Other comprehensive income (loss):
     Foreign currency translation adjustment ........................        (5,743)        (7,820)        (8,302)
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
Comprehensive income ................................................   $    81,630    $    48,929    $    42,010
                                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
Net income per common share:
     Basic ..........................................................   $      2.06    $      1.38    $      1.24
                                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
     Diluted ........................................................   $      2.01    $      1.35    $      1.21
                                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
Weighted average common shares outstanding:
     Basic ..........................................................        42,366         41,244         40,585
     Diluted ........................................................        43,545         42,007         41,438
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       31
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (In thousands, except share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Common Stock
                                                                             $.01 Par Value     Additional
                                                                             --------------       Paid-in      Retained
                                                                           Shares      Amount     Capital      Earnings
                                                                         ----------    ------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                                      <C>            <C>      <C>          <C>
Balance, December 26, 1998 ..........................................    40,250,936     $ 402    $ 348,119    $ 119,064
Deficit of one company acquired under the
   pooling of interests method, not deemed material .................            __        __           __       (1,567)
Net income ..........................................................            __        __           __       50,312
Shares issued for acquisitions ......................................       189,833         2        1,900           __
Shares issued to ESOP trust .........................................       101,233         1        1,766           __
Amortization of restricted stock ....................................            __        __           __           __
Foreign currency translation loss ...................................            __        __           __           __
Shares issued upon exercise of  stock options by employees,
        including tax benefit of $5,974 .............................       226,304         2        9,972           __
                                                                         ----------     -----    ---------    ---------
Balance, December 25, 1999 ..........................................    40,768,306       407      361,757      167,809
Retained earnings of one company acquired under the
   pooling of interests method, not deemed material .................            __        __           __          471
Net income ..........................................................            __        __           __       56,749
Shares issued for acquisitions ......................................       465,480         5          423           __
Shares issued to ESOP trust .........................................       121,253         1        2,192           __
Amortization of restricted stock ....................................            __        __           __           __
Foreign currency translation loss ...................................            __        __           __           __
Shares issued upon exercise of  stock options by employees,
        including tax benefit of $2,758 .............................       591,245         6        9,041           __
                                                                         ----------     -----    ---------    ---------
Balance, December 30, 2000 ..........................................    41,946,284       419      373,413      225,029
Net income ..........................................................            __        __           __       87,373
Shares issued to ESOP trust .........................................        61,997         1        2,224           __
Amortization of restricted stock ....................................            __        __           __           __
Foreign currency translation loss ...................................            __        __           __           __
Shares issued upon exercise of  stock options by employees,
        including tax benefit of $3,262 .............................       736,923         7       17,410           __
                                                                         ----------     -----    ---------    ---------
Balance, December 29, 2001 ..........................................    42,745,204     $ 427    $ 393,047    $ 312,402
                                                                         ==========     =====    =========    =========
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Accumulated                      Total
                                                                           Treasury   Comprehensive     Deferred     Stockholders'
                                                                            Stock         Loss        Compensation      Equity
                                                                           --------   ------------    ------------   ------------
<S>                                                                        <C>         <C>              <C>           <C>
Balance, December 26, 1998 ..........................................      $ (1,156)   $   (2,057)      $ (1,338)     $ 463,034
Deficit of one company acquired under the
   pooling of interests method, not deemed material .................            __            __             __         (1,567)
Net income ..........................................................            __            __             __         50,312
Shares issued for acquisitions ......................................            __            __             __          1,902
Shares issued to ESOP trust .........................................            __            __             __          1,767
Amortization of restricted stock ....................................            __            __            747            747
Foreign currency translation loss ...................................            __        (8,302)            __         (8,302)
Shares issued upon exercise of  stock options by employees,
        including tax benefit of $5,974 .............................            __            __             __          9,974
                                                                           --------    ----------       --------      ---------
Balance, December 25, 1999 ..........................................        (1,156)      (10,359)          (591)       517,867
Retained earnings of one company acquired under the
   pooling of interests method, not deemed material .................            __            __             __            471
Net income ..........................................................            __            __             __         56,749
Shares issued for acquisitions ......................................            __            __             __            428
Shares issued to ESOP trust .........................................            __            __             __          2,193
Amortization of restricted stock ....................................            __            __            125            125
Foreign currency translation loss ...................................            __        (7,820)            __         (7,820)
Shares issued upon exercise of  stock options by employees,
        including tax benefit of $2,758 .............................            __            __             __          9,047
                                                                           --------    ----------       --------      ---------
Balance, December 30, 2000 ..........................................        (1,156)      (18,179)          (466)       579,060
Net income ..........................................................            __            __             __         87,373
Shares issued to ESOP trust .........................................            __            __             __          2,225
Amortization of restricted stock ....................................            __            __            125            125
Foreign currency translation loss ...................................            __        (5,743)            __         (5,743)
Shares issued upon exercise of  stock options by employees,
        including tax benefit of $3,262 .............................            __            __             __         17,417
                                                                           --------    ----------       --------      ---------
Balance, December 29, 2001 ..........................................      $ (1,156)   $  (23,922)      $   (341)     $ 680,457
                                                                           ========    ==========       ========      =========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       32
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                             Years ended
                                                                               ---------------------------------------
                                                                               December 29,  December 30,  December 25,
                                                                                   2001          2000          1999
                                                                               ------------  ------------  -----------
<S>                                                                              <C>          <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
     Net income ..............................................................   $  87,373    $  56,749     $  50,312
     Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
          by operating activities:
            Depreciation and amortization ....................................      35,642       33,762        28,273
            Provision for losses and allowances on trade and other receivables       7,988        7,165           255
            Stock issued to ESOP trust .......................................       2,225        2,193         1,767
            Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes ....................         292       (1,335)           13
            Undistributed (earnings) losses of affiliates ....................        (414)       1,878         2,192
            Minority interest in net income of subsidiaries ..................       1,462        1,757         1,690
            Write-off of equipment, intangibles and other ....................       7,067          701           286
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities
          (net of purchase acquisitions):
            Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable .......................       3,194        5,186       (22,258)
            (Increase) decrease in inventories ...............................     (17,850)       4,630        12,102
            Decrease (increase) in other current assets ......................       8,808       (4,628)        6,786
            Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accruals .............      55,124       44,936       (24,925)
                                                                                 ---------    ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by operating activities ....................................     190,911      152,994        56,493
                                                                                 ---------    ---------     ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
     Capital expenditures ....................................................     (46,127)     (29,743)      (34,549)
     Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired
          of $228, $0, and $11,092 ...........................................      (8,588)      (6,838)     (132,552)
     Proceeds from sale of fixed assets ......................................        --           --           8,583
     Other ...................................................................        (355)      (9,645)       (5,557)
                                                                                 ---------    ---------     ---------
Net cash used in investing activities ........................................     (55,070)     (46,226)     (164,075)
                                                                                 ---------    ---------     ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
     Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt ................................      10,166         --         131,211
     Principal payments on long-term debt ....................................     (13,042)      (5,147)      (14,873)
     Proceeds from issuance of stock upon exercise
          of stock options by employees ......................................      14,155        6,283         3,998
     Proceeds from borrowing from banks ......................................       1,988        9,714       139,924
     Payments on borrowings from banks .......................................     (12,740)     (89,047)     (146,877)
     Other ...................................................................        (156)         346            40
                                                                                 ---------    ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ..........................         371      (77,851)      113,423
                                                                                 ---------    ---------     ---------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents ....................................     136,212       28,917         5,841
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents .................      (1,207)       3,426        (8,044)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year .................................      58,362       26,019        28,222
                                                                                 ---------    ---------     ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year .......................................   $ 193,367    $  58,362     $  26,019
                                                                                 =========    =========     =========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       33
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Consolidation

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Henry Schein,
Inc. and all of its wholly owned and majority-owned  subsidiaries  (collectively
the "Company"). Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which are greater than
or equal to 20% and less than or equal to 50% owned, are accounted for under the
equity method.  All  intercompany  accounts and  transactions  are eliminated in
consolidation.

Use of Estimates

     The  preparation  of financial  statements  in  conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that  affect the  reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Fiscal Year

     The  Company  reports its  operations  and cash flows on a 52-53 week basis
ending on the last Saturday of December. The fiscal year ended December 29, 2001
consisted of 52 weeks.  The fiscal year ended  December 30, 2000 consisted of 53
weeks. The fiscal year ended December 25, 1999 consisted of 52 weeks.

Revenue Recognition

     Sales are  recorded  when  products are shipped or services are rendered to
customers,   as  the  Company   generally  has  no  significant   post  delivery
obligations,  the product  price is fixed and  determinable,  collection  of the
resulting  receivable is probable and product returns are reasonably  estimable.
Revenues  derived from post contract  customer  support for practice  management
software  are  deferred  and  recognized  ratably  over the  period in which the
support is to be provided,  generally one-year. Revenues from freight charged to
customers are  recognized  when products are shipped.  Provisions for discounts,
rebates to customers, customer returns and other adjustments are provided for in
the period the related sales are recorded based on historical data.

Direct Shipping and Handling Costs

     Freight and other  direct  shipping  costs are included in "Cost of sales".
Direct handling costs,  which represent  primarily direct  compensation costs of
employees who pick, pack and otherwise  prepare,  if necessary,  merchandise for
shipment to the  Company's  customers  are  reflected in  "Selling,  general and
administrative"  expenses. These costs were approximately $21,200,  $17,700, and
$15,700 for the years ended 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

Advertising

     The  Company  generally  expenses  advertising  and  promotional  costs  as
incurred. Total advertising and promotional expenses were approximately $14,300,
$13,900, and $12,600 for fiscal years ended 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

                                       34
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

Inventories

     Inventories  consist  substantially of finished goods and are valued at the
lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in,  first-out ("FIFO")
method.

Property and Equipment and Depreciation and Amortization

     Property  and  equipment  are  stated  at cost.  Depreciation  is  computed
primarily under the  straight-line  method over the following  estimated  useful
lives:

                                                        Years
                                                        -----
                 Buildings and improvements .........     40
                 Machinery and warehouse equipment...   5-10
                 Furniture, fixtures and other ......   3-10
                 Computer equipment and software ....    3-8


     Amortization of leasehold  improvements is computed using the straight-line
method over the lesser of the useful life of the assets or the lease term.

     Capitalized  software  costs  consist  of costs  to  purchase  and  develop
software. The Company capitalizes certain incurred software development costs in
accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA")
issued  Statement  of Position No.  98-1,  "Accounting  for the Cost of Computer
Software  Developed or Obtained for Internal Use" ("SOP 98-1").  Costs  incurred
during  the  application-development  stage  for  software  bought  and  further
customized by outside vendors for the Company's use and software  developed by a
vendor for the Company's  proprietary use have been capitalized.  Costs incurred
for the  Company's  own  personnel  who are directly  associated  with  software
development are also capitalized.

Taxes on Income

     The Company accounts for income taxes under an asset and liability approach
that requires the  recognition  of deferred tax assets and  liabilities  for the
expected  future tax  consequences  of events that have been  recognized  in the
Company's  financial  statements  or  tax  returns.  In  estimating  future  tax
consequences,  the Company generally  considers all expected future events other
than  enactments  of changes in tax laws or rates.  The effect on  deferred  tax
assets and  liabilities of a change in tax rates will be recognized as income or
expense in the period that  includes the  enactment  date.  The Company  files a
consolidated   Federal   income  tax  return  with  its  80%  or  greater  owned
subsidiaries.

Statement of Cash Flows

     For purposes of the  statement  of cash flows,  the Company  considers  all
highly liquid debt instruments and other short-term  investments with an initial
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

                                       35
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 1--SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions

     The financial  position and results of operations of the Company's  foreign
subsidiaries  are determined  using local  currency as the functional  currency.
Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated at the exchange rate
in effect at each  year-end.  Income  statement  accounts are  translated at the
average rate of exchange  prevailing  during the year.  Translation  adjustments
arising  from the use of  differing  exchange  rates  from  period to period are
included in the accumulated  comprehensive loss account in stockholders' equity.
Gains and losses  resulting from foreign  currency  transactions are included in
earnings.

Derivative Financial Instruments

     On December 31, 2000, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133 ("FAS 133") "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities",  as amended,  and  interpreted,  which requires that all derivative
instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.  The impact of
adopting FAS 133 on the Company's  Statement of Income and Balance Sheet was not
material.

     The Company  uses  derivatives  to reduce its exposure to  fluctuations  in
foreign currencies.  Derivative products,  specifically foreign currency forward
contracts,  are used to hedge the foreign currency market  exposures  underlying
certain  inter-company  debt and certain  forecasted  transactions  with foreign
vendors. The Company does not enter such contracts for speculative purposes.

     For derivative  instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value
hedge (i.e.,  hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a
liability or an identified  portion thereof that is attributable to a particular
risk),  the gain or loss on the derivative  instrument as well as the offsetting
gain or loss on the hedged item  attributable  to the hedged risk are recognized
in  earnings  in  the  current  period.  For  derivative  instruments  that  are
designated  and  qualify as a cash flow hedge  (i.e.,  hedging  the  exposure of
variability  in  expected  future  cash flows that  would be  attributable  to a
particular  risk),  the effective  portion of the gain or loss on the derivative
instrument  is reported  as a component  of  Accumulated  comprehensive  loss (a
component of stockholders'  equity) and  reclassified  into earnings in the same
period or periods  during which the hedged  transaction  affects  earnings.  The
remaining  gain  or  loss  on  the  derivative  instrument,  if any  (i.e.,  the
ineffective  portion and any portion of the derivative  instrument excluded from
the  assessment  of  effectiveness)  is  recognized  in  earnings in the current
period.  For  derivative  instruments  not  designated  as hedging  instruments,
changes in their fair values are  recognized  in  earnings,  as a  component  of
Other-net.

Acquisitions

     The net assets of businesses  purchased are recorded at their fair value at
the acquisition date and the  consolidated  financial  statements  include their
operations  from that date. Any excess of acquisition  costs over the fair value
of  identifiable   net  assets   acquired  is  included  in  Goodwill.   Certain
acquisitions provide for contingent consideration, primarily cash, to be paid in
the event  certain  financial  performance  targets  are  satisfied  over future
periods.  The  Company's  policy  is  to  record  a  liability  and  adjust  the
acquisition price for such amounts when the targets are met.

                                       36
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 1--SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES--(CONTINUED)

Long-Lived Assets

     Long-lived  assets,  such as  goodwill  and  property  and  equipment,  are
evaluated for impairment when events or changes in  circumstances  indicate that
the carrying  amount of the assets may not be recoverable  through the estimated
undiscounted  future  cash  flows  from the use of these  assets.  When any such
impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value.

Stock-Based Compensation

     The Company  accounts  for its stock option  awards to employees  under the
intrinsic value based method of accounting  prescribed by Accounting  Principles
Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees".  Under the
intrinsic value based method,  compensation  cost is the excess,  if any, of the
quoted  market price of the stock at grant date or other  measurement  date over
the amount an  employee  must pay to acquire the stock.  The  Company  makes pro
forma  disclosures  of net  income and  earnings  per share as if the fair value
based  method of  accounting  had been  applied  as  required  by  Statement  of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("FAS 123"),  "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation".

Earnings Per Share

     Basic  earnings per share  includes no dilution and is computed by dividing
net income by the weighted  average number of common shares  outstanding for the
period.  Diluted  earnings  per share  reflect,  in periods in which they have a
dilutive  effect,  the effect of common  shares  issuable upon exercise of stock
options.

Comprehensive Income

     Comprehensive income includes net income and revenues,  expenses, gains and
losses that, under generally accepted accounting  principles,  are excluded from
net  income  as  these  amounts  are  recorded  directly  as  an  adjustment  to
stockholders'  equity.  The Company's  comprehensive  income is comprised of net
income and foreign currency translation adjustments.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     The carrying  amounts of cash,  accounts  receivable,  and accounts payable
approximate fair value because of the immediate or short-term  maturity of these
financial   instruments.   The  carrying  amount  reported  for  long-term  debt
approximates  fair value because  certain of the underlying  instruments  are at
variable  rates,  which  are  repriced  frequently.  The  remaining  portion  of
long-term debt approximates fair value because the interest approximates current
market rates for financial instruments with similar maturities and terms.

New Accounting Pronouncements

     (A) In June 2001, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board finalized FASB
Statements No. 141, Business Combinations ("FAS 141"), and No. 142, Goodwill and
Other  Intangible  Assets ("FAS 142").  FAS 141 requires the use of the purchase
method of accounting and prohibits the use of the pooling-of-interests method of
accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. FAS 141 also

                                       37
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 1--SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES--(CONTINUED)

requires  that the  Company  recognize  acquired  intangible  assets  apart from
goodwill if the  acquired  intangible  assets  meet  certain  criteria.  FAS 141
applies to all  business  combinations  initiated  after  June 30,  2001 and for
purchase  business  combinations  completed  on or after July 1,  2001.  It also
requires,  upon adoption of FAS 142, that the Company reclassify,  if necessary,
the carrying amounts of intangible  assets and goodwill based on the criteria in
FAS 141.

     FAS 142 requires,  among other things,  that  companies no longer  amortize
goodwill,  but instead  test  goodwill  for  impairment  at least  annually.  In
addition,  FAS 142 requires that the Company  identify  reporting  units for the
purposes of assessing  potential  future  impairments of goodwill,  reassess the
useful  lives  of  other  existing  recognized   intangible  assets,  and  cease
amortization of intangible  assets with an indefinite useful life. An intangible
asset  with an  indefinite  useful  life  should be  tested  for  impairment  in
accordance  with the  guidance in FAS 142.  FAS 142 is required to be applied in
fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  2001 to all  goodwill  and other
intangible assets recognized at that date,  regardless of when those assets were
initially  recognized.   FAS  142  also  requires  the  Company  to  complete  a
transitional  goodwill  impairment  test  within  six  months  from  the date of
adoption.  The Company is also  required to reassess  the useful  lives of other
intangible assets within the first interim quarter after adoption of FAS 142.

     Certain of the Company's business  combinations  effected prior to June 30,
2001  were  accounted  for  using  both the  pooling-of-interests  and  purchase
methods. The  pooling-of-interests  method does not result in the recognition of
acquired goodwill or other intangible  assets. As a result,  the adoption of FAS
141 and FAS 142 will not have any effect  with  respect to the  Company's  prior
transactions  that were  accounted  for under the  pooling-of-interests  method.
However,  all  future  business  combinations  will be  accounted  for under the
purchase  method,  which may result in the  recognition  of  goodwill  and other
intangible assets. With respect to the Company's business combinations that were
effected prior to June 30, 2001,  using the purchase  method of accounting,  the
net carrying amounts of the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets as of
December  29,  2001  were  approximately  $280,000  and  $8,000,   respectively.
Amortization  expense  during the year ended  December  29,  2001 was $12,900 of
which $11,600 was  amortization of goodwill and $1,300 was amortization of other
intangibles.  The  Company  has  estimated  that the  impact  of not  amortizing
goodwill on the results of operations will be an increase of approximately $0.17
per diluted share in 2002. The Company is still  determining the reporting units
to be  used  for its  goodwill  impairment  testing,  and  accordingly,  has not
determined the impact, if any, from the results of such testing.

     (B) In August 2001, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 144,  Accounting for
the  Impairment or Disposal of  Long-Lived  Assets ("FAS 144").  This  statement
supercedes  FASB Statement No. 121,  Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets  and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be  Disposed  Of ("FAS 121")  and  amends
Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 30,  Reporting  Results of Operations -
Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary,
Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions.  FAS 144 retains the
fundamental provisions of FAS 121 for recognition and measurement of impairment,
but amends the accounting and reporting  standards for segments of a business to
be disposed of. FAS 144 is effective for fiscal years  beginning  after December
15, 2001, and interim periods within those fiscal years,  with early application
encouraged. The provisions of FAS 144 generally are to be applied prospectively.
The  Company  believes  that the  adoption  of FAS 144 will not have a  material
impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

                                       38
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                      (In thousands, except per share data)


NOTE 2--EARNINGS PER SHARE

     A reconciliation  of shares used in calculating  basic and diluted earnings
per share follows:

                                               Years ended
                                  ----------------------------------------
                                  December 29,  December 30,  December 25,
                                      2001         2000           1999
                                  ------------  ------------  ------------
   Basic .........................   42,366       41,244         40,585
   Effect of assumed conversion of
        employee stock options ...    1,179          763            853
                                     ------       ------         ------
   Diluted .......................   43,545       42,007         41,438
                                     ======       ======         ======


     Options to purchase  approximately 1,114, 3,011, and 2,485 shares of common
stock at prices ranging from $35.50 to $46.00,  $19.73 to $46.00,  and $24.56 to
$46.00  per  share  that  were   outstanding   during  2001,   2000,  and  1999,
respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
for each of the respective  years because the options'  exercise prices exceeded
the fair market value of the Company's common stock.

NOTE 3--PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

     Major classes of property and equipment consist of the following:

                                                     December 29,   December 30,
                                                         2001           2000
                                                     ------------   ------------
Land ............................................     $  3,540       $  1,257
Buildings and leasehold improvements ............       52,257         42,744
Machinery and warehouse equipment ...............       24,016         21,909
Furniture, fixtures and other ...................       27,096         24,888
Computer equipment and software .................      101,894         76,999
                                                      --------       --------
                                                       208,803        167,797
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization ..       90,823         73,134
                                                      --------       --------
Net property and equipment ......................     $117,980       $ 94,663
                                                      ========       ========

     The net book value of  equipment  held under  capital  leases  amounted  to
approximately  $1,081 and $2,165 as of December  29, 2001 and December 30, 2000,
respectively (See Note 14(b)).

                                       39
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 4--GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES, NET

     Goodwill and other intangibles, net consist of the following:


                                   Estimated      December 29,   December 30,
                                     Lives            2001           2000
                                  ----------      ------------   ------------
Goodwill.......................    30 years        $ 326,473      $ 319,625
Other..........................   3- 5 years          17,473         16,812
                                                   ---------      ---------
                                                     343,946        336,437
Less accumulated amortization..                       55,942         44,419
                                                   ---------      ---------
                                                   $ 288,004      $ 292,018
                                                   =========      =========


     Goodwill  represents the excess of the purchase price of acquisitions  over
the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. During 2001, the increase in
goodwill  was  primarily  due to  additional  purchase  price  consideration  of
approximately  $13,300 for a prior year  acquisition,  net of an impairment loss
related to the  healthcare  distribution  business.  Other  intangibles  include
covenants not-to-compete, customer lists and deferred financing costs.


NOTE 5--INVESTMENTS AND OTHER

     Investments and other consist of the following:


                                               December 29,     December 30,
                                                   2001             2000
                                               ------------     ------------
Long-term notes receivables (1) ..............   $ 41,214         $ 39,028
Investments in unconsolidated affiliates .....      4,201            4,791
Other ........................................      7,058           12,164
                                                 --------         --------
                                                 $ 52,473         $ 55,983
                                                 ========         ========
----------
(1)  Long-term notes receivables include various notes due arising from the sale
     of certain businesses of approximately $22,251 in 2001 and $21,700 in 2000.


     The  Company's  investment as of December 29, 2001, is a 50% interest in an
unconsolidated  affiliate,  which is  involved  in the  healthcare  distribution
business.  In the  fourth  quarter  of fiscal  2000,  the  Company  sold its 50%
interest in HS  Pharmaceutical  Inc. ("HS  Pharmaceutical"),  a manufacturer and
distributor of generic  pharmaceuticals,  which resulted in a non-recurring  net
loss of $1,925 which is included in Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates.

                                       40
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 6--BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

     During  the year  ended  December  29,  2001,  the  Company  completed  the
acquisition  of two  healthcare  distribution  businesses,  which  included  the
purchase  of the  remaining  50%  interest  of an  affiliate.  Neither  of these
purchases was considered material either  individually or in the aggregate.  The
two transactions  were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and
have  been  included  in  the  consolidated   financial  statements  from  their
respective acquisition dates.

     In  2000,  the  Company   completed  the   acquisition  of  two  healthcare
distribution  businesses  and  one  technology  business,  none  of  which  were
considered  material  either  individually  or in the  aggregate.  Of the  three
completed  acquisitions,  two were  accounted  for under the purchase  method of
accounting and the remaining  acquisition was accounted for under the pooling of
interests method of accounting.  The Company issued 465,480 shares of its Common
Stock,  with an aggregate value of  approximately  $7,900 in connection with the
pooling  transaction.  The  transactions  completed under the purchase method of
accounting  have been included in the  consolidated  financial  statements  from
their respective acquisition dates. The pooling transaction was not material and
accordingly,  prior period financial statements have not been restated.  Results
of the  acquired  company  have  been  included  in the  consolidated  financial
statements from the beginning of the second quarter of 2000.

     In  1999,  the  Company  completed  the  acquisition  of  eight  healthcare
distribution  businesses and one technology  business,  the most  significant of
which were  transactions  accounted for under the purchase method of accounting;
General Injectables and Vaccines, Inc. ("GIV") (on December 30, 1998), a leading
independent  direct  marketer of vaccines and other  injectables to office based
practitioners   throughout  the  United  States;  and  the  Heiland  Group  GmbH
("Heiland")  (on December 31, 1998),  the largest direct  marketer of healthcare
supplies to the medical, dental, and veterinarian office-based  practitioners in
Germany.

     GIV and Heiland had 1998 net sales of approximately  $120,000 and $130,000,
respectively.  The  purchase  price  and  resultant  goodwill,  which  was being
amortized over 30 years, for these  acquisitions was  approximately  $65,000 and
$47,400 for GIV, and $60,400 and $55,800 for Heiland,  respectively  (see Note 9
(a)).  The   acquisition   agreements  for  GIV  provide  for  additional   cash
consideration  of up to $6,000 per year through 2004,  not to exceed  $22,500 in
total, to be paid if certain profitability targets are met.

     Additionally,  during 1999, the Company acquired six other companies, which
had total sales in 1998 of  approximately  $74,000 that were accounted for under
the  purchase  method of  accounting.  Results  of  operations  of the  business
acquisitions  accounted for under the purchase  method of  accounting  have been
included in the financial statements  commencing with the acquisition dates. The
total purchase price of the six companies acquired was  approximately,  $11,800.
The Company also  acquired one company,  which is being  accounted for under the
pooling of interests method of accounting, which was not material. In connection
with this  acquisition,  the Company  issued  189,833 shares of its Common Stock
with an  aggregate  market  value of $6,400.  The  pooling  transaction  was not
material  and  accordingly  prior  period  financial  statements  have  not been
restated.  Results of the pooling transaction  acquisition have been included in
the consolidated financial statements from the beginning of the quarter in which
the acquisition occurred.

     Summarized  unaudited pro forma results of operations for the  acquisitions
completed  during  fiscal  2001 and 2000,  which  were  accounted  for under the
purchase method of accounting, are not presented as the impact of reflecting the
Company's  results of operations which assumed the  acquisitions  occurred as of
the beginning of the fiscal 2000 is not material.

                                       41
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 6--BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS-(CONTINUED)

     The  Company   incurred   certain  direct  costs  in  connection  with  the
aforementioned  acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method
of accounting including, in 1998, the H. Meer Dental Supply Co. Inc. ("Meer"), a
distributor  of consumable  dental  supplies,  and the  integration of these and
certain  other  acquired  businesses  into the Company's  infrastructure.  These
costs,  which  have been  classified  as  merger  and  integration costs, are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                        Years ended
                                                                          -----------------------------------------
                                                                          December 29,  December 30,   December 25,
                                                                              2001          2000           1999
                                                                          ------------  ------------   ------------
<S>                                                                          <C>           <C>            <C>
Direct transaction / merger costs (1) ..................................     $  --         $  585         $4,032
                                                                             ------         -----       --------
Integration costs:
     Severance and other direct costs ..................................        --            --           3,437
     Costs associated with the closure of distribution centers (2)......        --            --           5,583
     Long-lived asset write-off and impairment .........................        --            --             415
                                                                             ------         -----       --------
          Total integration costs ......................................        --            --           9,435
                                                                             ------         -----       --------
     Total merger and integration costs ................................     $  --          $ 585       $ 13,467
                                                                             ======         =====       ========
----------
<fn>
(1)  Primarily  investment  banking  and  professional  fees,  including  $3,533
     related  to  Meer  in  1999  (primarily   legal  fees  resulting  from  the
     acquisition).

(2)  Primarily rent and consulting fees.
</fn>
</TABLE>


                                       42
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 6--BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS-(CONTINUED)

     The  following  table  shows the  activity  in the merger  and  integration
accruals:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                Applied    Adjustments
                                         Balance at                             Against     to Reflect    Balance
                                         Beginning                            Long-Lived      Actual      at End
                                          of Year    Provision    Payments     Assets (1)      Cost       of Year
                                         ----------  ---------   ----------   -----------  -----------    -------
<S>                                      <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>
Year ended December 25, 1999:
     Severance and other direct costs... $  7,943    $  4,721    $  (9,686)    $     -      $  (1,284)   $  1,694
     Direct transaction and other
           integration costs............   14,049       8,340       (9,156)      (6,524)        1,690       8,399
                                         --------    --------    ---------     --------     ---------    --------
                                         $ 21,992    $ 13,061    $ (18,842)    $ (6,524)    $     406    $ 10,093
                                         ========    ========    =========     ========     =========    ========
Year ended December 30, 2000:
     Severance and other direct costs... $  1,694    $    -      $    (947)    $     -      $      -     $    747
     Direct transaction and other
           integration costs............    8,399         585       (4,844)          -             -        4,140
                                         --------    --------    ---------     --------     ---------    --------
                                         $ 10,093    $    585    $  (5,791)    $     -      $      -     $  4,887
                                         ========    ========    =========     ========     =========    ========
Year ended December 29, 2001:
     Severance and other direct costs... $    747    $    -      $    (382)    $     -      $      -     $    365
     Direct transaction and other
           integration costs............    4,140         -         (1,957)          -             -        2,183
                                         --------    --------    ---------     --------     ---------    --------
                                         $  4,887    $    -      $  (2,339)    $     -      $      -     $  2,548
                                         ========    ========    =========     ========     =========    ========
----------
<fn>
(1)  To reflect specific write-offs relating to amounts previously provided.
</fn>
</TABLE>

     As a result of the  acquisitions and integration of these and certain other
businesses  into the Company's  infrastructure,  870 employees  were  terminated
through  December  25, 1999.  Of the  870  terminated  employees,  206  received
severance during 1999, 37 received  severance during 2000, 11 received severance
during 2001, and 1 was owed severance at December 29, 2001.

NOTE 7--PLAN OF RESTRUCTURING

     On August 1, 2000, the Company announced a comprehensive restructuring plan
designed to improve  customer  service and increase  profitability by maximizing
the  efficiency  of the  Company's  infrastructure.  In  addition  to closing or
downsizing  certain   facilities,   this  worldwide   initiative   included  the
elimination of approximately 300 positions,  including open positions,  or about
5% of the total workforce, throughout all levels within the organization.

     For the year  ended  December  30,  2000,  the  Company  incurred  one-time
restructuring costs of approximately $14,439 ($9,270 after taxes), consisting of
employee  severance  pay  and  benefits,  facility  closing  costs  representing
primarily lease termination and asset write-off costs, and outside  professional
and consulting fees directly related to the restructuring plan.

                                       43
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 7--PLAN OF RESTRUCTURING-(CONTINUED)

     The following table shows amounts expensed and paid for restructuring costs
that were incurred and accrued in 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                           Balance at               Adjustments    Balance at
                                          December 30,               to Reflect   December 29,
                                              2000       Payments   Actual Cost       2001
                                          ------------   --------   -----------   ------------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>
Severance costs (1) ....................    $ 4,007      $(4,106)     $   732       $   633
Facility closing costs (2) .............      3,684       (1,278)         239         2,645
Other professional and consulting costs.      1,157         (145)        (971)           41
                                            -------      -------      -------       -------
                                            $ 8,848      $(5,529)     $    -        $ 3,319
                                            =======      =======      =======       =======
----------
<fn>
(1)  Represents  salaries and related benefits for employees  separated from the
     Company.

(2)  Represents costs associated with the closing of certain equipment  branches
     (primarily lease termination costs) and property and equipment write-offs.
</fn>
</TABLE>

     For the year ended  December 30, 2000,  284  employees  separated  from the
Company and  received  severance  payments in 2000.  During  2001,  104 of these
employees  received  severance  payments,  and 6 were  owed  severance  pay  and
benefits at December 29, 2001.  These  employees were from nearly all functional
areas of the Company's operations.

NOTE 8--BANK CREDIT LINES

     At December 29, 2001,  certain  subsidiaries  of the Company had  available
various short-term bank credit lines totaling  approximately  $39,850,  expiring
through  January  2004.  Borrowings  of $4,025  under these credit  lines,  bear
interest rates ranging from 4.00% to 7.25%, and were  collateralized by accounts
receivable,  inventory  and property and  equipment  with an aggregate  net book
value of $83,110 at December 29, 2001.

                                       44
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 9--LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Years ended
                                                                   --------------------------
                                                                   December 29,  December 30,
                                                                       2001          2000
                                                                   ------------  ------------
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>
Private Placement Loans (a) ....................................     $230,000      $230,000
Borrowings under Revolving Credit Agreement (b) ................         --          10,660
Notes payable to banks, interest at 4.49% to 6.94%,
     payable in quarterly installments ranging from $59 to $63
     through 2019, semi-annual installments of $452 through 2002
     and a lump sum payment of $5,423 on January 1, 2002 .......       21,091        21,517
Various loans payable with interest, in varying
     installments through 2010, uncollateralized ...............        2,517         5,682
Note payable, interest payable quarterly
     at 5.28% plus a margin;  balance due on January 1, 2002 ...        1,644         1,984
Capital lease obligations in various installments through
     fiscal 2010; interest at 6.0% to 10.1% or varies with
     prime rate (see Note 14 (b)) ..............................        2,140         2,460
                                                                     --------      --------
Total ..........................................................      257,392       272,303
Less current maturities ........................................       15,223         6,079
                                                                     --------      --------
Total long-term debt ...........................................     $242,169      $266,224
                                                                     ========      ========
</TABLE>
(a) Private Placement Loans

     On June 30, 1999,  the Company  completed a private  placement  transaction
under which it issued $130,000 in Senior Notes,  the proceeds of which were used
for the permanent  financing of its acquisitions of GIV and Heiland,  as well as
repaying and retiring a portion of four  uncommitted  bank lines. The notes come
due on June 30, 2009 and bear interest at a rate of 6.94% per annum. Interest is
payable semi-annually.

     On  September  25,  1998,  the  Company   completed  a  private   placement
transaction  under which it issued  $100,000 in Senior  Notes,  the  proceeds of
which were used to pay down amounts owed under its  revolving  credit  facility.
Principal payments totaling $20,000 are due annually starting September 25, 2006
through 2010. The notes bear interest at a rate of 6.66% per annum.  Interest is
payable semi-annually.

(b) Revolving Credit Agreement

     On August 15, 1997, the Company  entered into an amended  revolving  credit
agreement which, among other things,  increased the maximum available borrowings
to $150,000  from  $100,000 and extended the term of the agreement to August 15,
2002. The interest rate on any borrowings under the agreement is based on prime,
or  LIBOR,  as  defined  in  the  agreement,   which  were  4.75%,   and  4.84%,
respectively,  at December 29, 2001.  There were no  borrowings  outstanding  at
December 29, 2001.  The agreement  provides for a sliding scale fee ranging from
0.1% to 0.3%, based upon certain  financial ratios, on any unused portion of the
commitment.  The agreement also provides,  among other things,  that the Company
will  maintain,  on a consolidated  basis,  as defined,  a minimum  tangible net
worth,  current cash flow,  and interest  coverage  ratios,  a maximum  leverage
ratio, and contains restrictions relating to annual dividends in excess of $500,
guarantees  of  subsidiary  debt,  investments  in  subsidiaries,   mergers  and
acquisitions,  liens,  capital  expenditures,  certain  changes in ownership and

                                       45
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 9--LONG-TERM DEBT--(CONTINUED)

employee and shareholder  loans. The Company expects to renew the revolving line
of credit prior to its scheduled termination in August 2002.

     As of December 29, 2001,  the aggregate  amounts of long-term debt maturing
in each of the next five years are as  follows:  2002 - $15,223;  2003 - $1,895;
2004 - $1,210; 2005 - $703; 2006 - $20,746.

NOTE 10--TAXES ON INCOME

     Taxes on income  are  based on  income  before  taxes on  income,  minority
interest and equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates as follows:


                                                Years ended
                            ---------------------------------------------------
                            December 29,        December 30,       December 25,
                                2001                2000               1999
                            ------------        ------------       ------------
Domestic ................    $ 140,675           $ 102,777          $  84,877
Foreign .................         (324)             (6,243)             4,906
                             ---------           ---------          ---------
     Total ..............    $ 140,351           $  96,534          $  89,783
                             =========           =========          =========

     The provision (benefit) for taxes on income was as follows:


                                                     Years ended
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      December 29,   December 30,   December 25,
                                          2001           2000           1999
                                      ------------   ------------   ------------
Current tax expense:
     U.S. Federal .................    $ 46,225       $ 33,989       $ 28,137
     State and local ..............       3,806          2,882          5,579
     Foreign ......................       1,607            614          1,860
                                       --------       --------       --------
          Total current ...........      51,638         37,485         35,576
                                       --------       --------       --------
Deferred tax expense (benefit):
     U.S. Federal .................        (162)        (1,046)           954
     State and local ..............         234             90         (1,338)
     Foreign ......................         220           (379)           397
                                       --------       --------       --------
          Total deferred ..........         292         (1,335)            13
                                       --------       --------       --------
          Total provision .........    $ 51,930       $ 36,150       $ 35,589
                                       ========       ========       ========


                                       46
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 10--TAXES ON INCOME--(CONTINUED)

     The tax effects of temporary  differences  that give rise to the  Company's
deferred tax asset (liability) are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   Years ended
                                                                           ---------------------------
                                                                           December 29,   December 30,
                                                                               2001           2000
                                                                           ------------   ------------
<S>                                                                         <C>            <C>
Current deferred tax assets:
     Inventory, premium coupon redemptions and
          accounts receivable valuation allowances ...................      $ 14,433       $ 11,824
     Uniform capitalization adjustments to inventories ...............         3,578          3,750
     Other accrued liabilities .......................................         7,740          5,427
                                                                            --------       --------
          Total current deferred tax asset ...........................        25,751         21,001
                                                                            --------       --------
Non-current deferred tax asset (liability):
     Property and equipment ..........................................       (12,402)        (8,459)
     Provision for other long-term liabilities .......................        (5,198)        (3,001)
     Net operating loss carryforward .................................           150            156
     Net operating losses of foreign subsidiaries ....................         2,697          2,863
                                                                            --------       --------
          Total non-current deferred tax liability ...................       (14,753)        (8,441)
          Valuation allowance for non-current deferred tax assets  (1)        (1,850)        (2,686)
                                                                            --------       --------
     Net non-current deferred tax liabilities ........................       (16,603)       (11,127)
                                                                            --------       --------
Net deferred tax asset ...............................................      $  9,148       $  9,874
                                                                            ========       ========
----------
<fn>
     (1) Primarily relates to operating losses of foreign subsidiaries.
</fn>
</TABLE>

     The net  deferred  tax asset is  realizable  as the Company has  sufficient
taxable  income  in prior  years  to  realize  the tax  benefit  for  deductible
temporary  differences.  The non-current deferred liability is included in Other
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

     At December 29, 2001, the Company has net operating loss  carryforwards for
Federal  income tax  purposes  of $389,  which are  available  to offset  future
Federal taxable income through 2010. Foreign net operating losses totaled $8,096
at December 29, 2001. Such losses can be utilized against future foreign income.
These losses expire between 2002 and 2011 with $1,674 expiring in 2002.

                                       47
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 10--TAXES ON INCOME--(CONTINUED)

     The tax  provisions  differ  from the  amount  computed  using the  Federal
statutory income tax rate as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                        Years ended
                                                         ------------------------------------------
                                                         December 29,   December 30,   December 25,
                                                              2001           2000           1999
                                                         ------------   ------------   ------------
<S>                                                       <C>            <C>            <C>
Provision at Federal statutory rate ..................    $ 49,122       $ 33,785       $ 31,425
State income taxes, net of Federal income tax effect..       2,626          1,874          2,757
Net foreign  losses for which no tax  benefits
     are available ...................................         597          1,009            196
Foreign income taxed at other than the Federal
     statutory rate ..................................          (6)           448             38
Reduction in valuation allowance .....................        (210)        (1,011)           --
Non-deductible merger and integration costs ..........         --             205          1,329
Other ................................................        (199)          (160)          (156)
                                                          --------       --------       --------
Income tax provision .................................    $ 51,930       $ 36,150       $ 35,589
                                                          ========       ========       ========
</TABLE>

     Provision  has not been  made  for  U.S.  or  additional  foreign  taxes on
undistributed  earnings of foreign  subsidiaries.  Those  earnings have been and
will  continue  to  be  reinvested.  These  earnings  could  become  subject  to
additional  tax if they were  remitted as  dividends,  if foreign  earnings were
loaned to the Company or a U.S.  affiliate,  or if the  Company  should sell its
stock in the foreign subsidiaries. It is not practicable to determine the amount
of  additional  tax,  if any,  that might be payable  on the  foreign  earnings;
however,  the Company  believes  that  foreign tax credits  would  substantially
offset any U.S. tax. At December 29, 2001, the  cumulative  amount of reinvested
earnings was approximately $6,073.

NOTE 11--FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CREDIT RISK CONCENTRATIONS

(a) Financial Instruments

     To reduce its exposure to fluctuations in foreign  currencies,  the Company
is  party  to  foreign   currency   forward   contracts  with  major   financial
institutions,  which are used to hedge the  foreign  currency  market  exposures
underlying certain  inter-company debt and certain forecasted  transactions with
foreign vendors.

     As of December  29,  2001,  the Company had  outstanding  foreign  currency
forward   contracts   aggregating   $46,732,   of  which,   $44,077  related  to
inter-company  debt and $2,655  related to the purchase and sale of  merchandise
from foreign  vendors.  The contracts  hedge against  currency  fluctuations  of
British Pounds ($24,145), Euros ($21,071),  Australian dollars ($1,294), and New
Zealand  dollars  ($222).  As of  December  29,  2001,  the fair  value of these
contracts,  which are  determined  by quoted  market  prices and expire  through
November  2002,  was not  material.  For the year ended  December 29, 2001,  the
Company  recognized an immaterial loss relating to its foreign  currency forward
contracts.

     While the Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of  nonperformance
by the  counter  parties of these  contracts,  the Company  does not  anticipate
nonperformance by the counter parties.  The Company does not require  collateral
or other security to support these financial instruments.

                                       48
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 11-- FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CREDIT RISK CONCENTRATIONS--(CONTINUED)

(b) Concentrations of Credit Risk

     Certain   financial   instruments   potentially   subject  the  Company  to
concentrations of credit risk. These financial  instruments consist primarily of
trade  receivables  and  short-term  cash  investments.  The Company  places its
short-term cash investments with high credit quality financial institutions and,
by  policy,   limits  the  amount  of  credit  exposure  to  any  one  financial
institution. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are
limited due to a large customer base and its dispersion  across  different types
of healthcare  professionals  and  geographic  areas.  The Company  maintains an
allowance for losses based on the expected collectability of all receivables.

NOTE 12--SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

     The  Company  has two  reportable  segments:  healthcare  distribution  and
technology.  The  healthcare  distribution  segment,  which is  comprised of the
Company's  dental,  medical,   veterinary  and  international  business  groups,
distributes   healthcare  products   (primarily   consumable)  and  services  to
office-based  healthcare  practitioners  and professionals in the combined North
American  and  international  markets.  Products,  which  are  similar  for each
business  group,  are  maintained and  distributed  from  strategically  located
distribution centers. The technology segment consists primarily of the Company's
practice management software business and certain other value-added products and
services that are distributed primarily to healthcare professionals in the North
American market.

     The accounting  policies of the segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant  accounting  policies.  The Company evaluates segment
performance based on operating income.

     The Company's  reportable  segments are strategic business units that offer
different  products and services,  albeit to the same customer base. Most of the
technology  business was acquired as a unit,  and the  management at the time of
acquisition  was retained.  The following table presents  information  about the
Company's business segments:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       Years ended
                                                        -------------------------------------------
                                                        December 29,   December 30,    December 25,
                                                            2001           2000           1999
                                                        ------------   ------------    ------------
<S>                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
Net Sales:
Healthcare distribution (1):
     Dental ........................................    $ 1,106,580    $ 1,073,889    $ 1,047,259
     Medical .......................................        929,825        794,880        715,210
     Veterinary ....................................         52,744         56,421         52,050
     International (2) .............................        398,071        389,946        403,137
                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
          Total healthcare distribution.............      2,487,220      2,315,136      2,217,656
Technology (3) .....................................         71,023         66,585         66,888
                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
     Total .........................................    $ 2,558,243    $ 2,381,721    $ 2,284,544
                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
----------
<fn>
(1)  Consists of consumable  products,  small  equipment,  laboratory  products,
     large  dental  equipment,  branded  and generic  pharmaceuticals,  surgical
     products, diagnostic tests, infection control and vitamins.

(2)  Consists  of  products  sold in Dental,  Medical  and  Veterinary  markets,
     primarily in Europe.

(3)  Consists of practice management software and other value-added products and
     services,  which are distributed  primarily to healthcare  professionals in
     the North American market.
</fn>
</TABLE>

                                       49
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 12--SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA--(CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               Years ended
                                                                               --------------------------------------------
                                                                               December 29,    December 30,    December 25,
                                                                                   2001            2000            1999
                                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
<S>                                                                             <C>            <C>             <C>
Operating Income:
     Healthcare distribution (includes merger and integration and
          restructuring costs of $0, $14,081, and $13,467, respectively) ..     $  123,767     $   88,872      $   80,467
     Technology (includes merger and integration and restructuring
          costs of $0, $943, and $0, respectively) ........................         23,983         23,717          25,298
                                                                                ----------     ----------      ----------
     Total ................................................................     $  147,750     $  112,589      $  105,765
                                                                                ==========     ==========      ==========

Interest Income:
     Healthcare distribution ..............................................     $    9,435     $    5,231      $    7,811
     Technology ...........................................................          2,619          4,424           1,534
                                                                                ----------     ----------      ----------
     Total ................................................................     $   12,054     $    9,655      $    9,345
                                                                                ==========     ==========      ==========

Interest Expense:
     Healthcare distribution ..............................................     $   18,574     $   22,611      $   24,785
     Technology ...........................................................            726          1,174             376
                                                                                ----------     ----------      ----------
     Total ................................................................     $   19,300     $   23,785      $   25,161
                                                                                ==========     ==========      ==========
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                December 29,   December 30,    December 25,
                                                                                    2001           2000            1999
                                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
<S>                                                                             <C>            <C>             <C>
Total Assets:
     Healthcare distribution ..............................................     $1,355,681     $1,188,098      $1,134,312
     Technology ...........................................................         88,590         97,058         110,563
                                                                                ----------     ----------      ----------
     Total ................................................................     $1,444,271     $1,285,156      $1,244,875
                                                                                ==========     ==========      ==========

Depreciation and Amortization:
     Healthcare distribution ..............................................     $   34,080     $   32,465      $   26,355
     Technology ...........................................................          1,562          1,297           1,918
                                                                                ----------     ----------      ----------
     Total ................................................................     $   35,642     $   33,762      $   28,273
                                                                                ==========     ==========      ==========

Capital Expenditures:
     Healthcare distribution ..............................................     $   45,289     $   28,344      $   32,639
     Technology ...........................................................            838          1,399           1,910
                                                                                ----------     ----------      ----------
     Total ................................................................     $   46,127     $   29,743      $   34,549
                                                                                ==========     ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

                                       50
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 12--SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA--(CONTINUED)

     The following table reconciles segment totals to consolidated totals as of,
and for the years ended  December 29, 2001,  December 30, 2000, and December 25,
1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            2001           2000           1999
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
Total Assets:
     Total assets for reportable segments ...........................   $ 1,444,271    $ 1,285,156    $ 1,244,875
     Receivables due from healthcare distribution segment ...........       (57,685)       (46,494)       (36,593)
     Receivables due from technology segment ........................        (1,158)        (7,594)        (4,180)
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
          Consolidated total assets .................................   $ 1,385,428    $ 1,231,068    $ 1,204,102
                                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
Interest Income:
     Total interest income for reportable segments ..................   $    12,054    $     9,655    $     9,345
     Interest on receivables due from healthcare distribution segment        (1,737)        (2,887)        (1,369)
     Interest on receivables due from technology segment ............          (239)          (489)          (199)
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
          Total consolidated interest income ........................   $    10,078    $     6,279    $     7,777
                                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
Interest Expense:
     Total interest expense for reportable segments .................   $    19,300    $    23,785    $    25,161
     Interest on payables due to healthcare distribution segment ....          (239)          (489)          (199)
     Interest on payables due to technology segment .................        (1,737)        (2,887)        (1,369)
                                                                        -----------    -----------    -----------
          Total consolidated interest expense .......................   $    17,324    $    20,409    $    23,593
                                                                        ===========    ===========    ===========
</TABLE>

     The following  table presents  information  about the Company by geographic
area as of, and for the years ended  December 29, 2001,  December 30, 2000,  and
December  25,  1999.  Revenues by  geographic  area are based on the  respective
locations of the Company's  subsidiaries.  No individual country, except for the
United States, generated net sales greater than 10% of  consolidated  net sales.
There were no material  amounts of sales or transfers among geographic areas and
there were no material amounts of United States export sales.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                   2001                        2000                        1999
                         ------------------------    ------------------------    ------------------------
                                    Long-Lived                  Long-Lived                  Long-Lived
                          Net Sales      Assets       Net Sales      Assets       Net Sales      Assets
                         ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                      <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
North America .......    $2,179,645    $  296,858    $2,010,398    $  271,188    $1,899,188    $  249,524
Europe and other ....       378,598       109,126       371,323       115,493       385,356       132,216
                         ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
Consolidated Total...    $2,558,243    $  405,984    $2,381,721    $  386,681    $2,284,544    $  381,740
                         ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     The  Company's  subsidiary  located in  Germany  had  long-lived  assets of
$71,825,  $77,995,  and $88,050 at December  29, 2001,  December  30, 2000,  and
December 25, 1999, respectively.


                                       51
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 13--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(a) Common Stock Purchase Rights

     On  November  30,  1998,  the  Company's  Board  of  Directors   adopted  a
Stockholder  Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan"),  and declared a dividend under the
Rights Plan of one common stock purchase  right (a "Right") on each  outstanding
share of the Company's  Common Stock.  Until the  occurrence of certain  events,
each share of Common Stock that is issued will also have a Right attached to it.
The Rights provide, in substance, that should any person or group acquire 15% or
more of the  outstanding  Common Stock of the Company after the date of adoption
of the Rights Plan, each Right,  other than Rights held by the acquiring  person
or group,  would  entitle its holder to  purchase a certain  number of shares of
Common  Stock for 50% of the  then-current  market  value of the  Common  Stock.
Unless a 15% acquisition has occurred,  the Company may redeem the Rights at any
time prior to the  termination  date of the Rights Plan.  This Right to purchase
the Common  Stock at a discount  will not be  triggered by a person's or group's
acquisition  of 15% or more of the Common Stock pursuant to a tender or exchange
offer which is for all outstanding shares at a price and on terms that the Board
of  Directors  determines  (prior  to  acquisition)  to be  adequate  and in the
stockholders'  best interests.  In adition,  this Right will not be triggered by
the positions of existing shareholders.

     Certain  business  combinations  with an acquiring person or its affiliates
will trigger an additional feature of the Rights. Each Right, (other than Rights
held by the  acquiring  person or group),  will entitle its holder to purchase a
certain number of shares of the Common Stock of the acquiring  person at a price
equal  to 50% of the  market  value  of such  shares  at the  time of  exercise.
Initially,  the Rights will be attached  to, and trade  with,  the  certificates
representing  the Company's  outstanding  shares of Common Stock and no separate
certificates representing the Rights will be distributed. The Rights will become
exercisable  only if a person  or group  acquires,  (or  commences  a tender  or
exchange offer for), 15% or more of the Company's Common Stock.

     The Board of Directors  may, at its option redeem all but not less than all
of the then  outstanding  Rights at a redemption price of $0.01 per Right at any
time prior to the  earlier of (a) any person or group  acquiring  15% or more of
the  Company's  Common  Stock or (b) the final  expiration  date of November 30,
2008.

(b) Stock Options

     The  Company  established  the 1994 Stock  Option  Plan for the  benefit of
certain  employees.  As amended in June 2001,  pursuant to this plan the Company
may issue up to  approximately  4,445,000  shares of its Common Stock.  The Plan
provides  for two  classes of options:  Class A options  and Class B options.  A
maximum  of  237,897  shares of Common  Stock may be covered by Class A options.
Both incentive and non-qualified stock options may be issued under the Plan.

     In 1995,  Class A options to acquire  237,897  common shares were issued to
certain  executive   management  at  an  exercise  price  of  $4.21  per  share,
substantially all of which became  exercisable upon the closing of the Company's
initial public offering which was on November 3, 1995. The exercise price of all
Class B options  issued has been equal to the market  price on the date of grant
and  accordingly no compensation  cost has been  recognized.  Substantially  all
Class B options become  exercisable  up to the tenth  anniversary of the date of
issuance, subject to acceleration upon termination of employment.

     On May 8, 1996, the Company's  stockholders  approved the 1996 Non-Employee
Director  Stock Option Plan,  under which the Company may grant  options to each
director who is not also an officer or employee of the Company, for up to 50,000
shares of the Company's Common Stock. The exercise price and term, not to exceed

                                       52
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 13--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY - (CONTINUED)

10 years,  of each option is determined by the plan committee at the time of the
grant.   During  2001,  2000,  and  1999,   12,000,  0,  and  13,000,   options,
respectively, were granted to certain non-employee directors at exercise prices,
which were equal to the market price on the date of grant.

     Additionally,  in 1997 as a result of the Company's acquisition of Sullivan
Dental  Products  Inc. and Micro  Bio-Medics,  Inc.,  the Company  assumed their
respective stock option plans (the "Assumed  Plans").  Options granted under the
Assumed Plans of 1,218,000 and 1,117,000, respectively are exercisable for up to
ten years from the date of grant at prices not less than the fair  market  value
of the respective  acquirees'  common stock at the date of grant, on a converted
basis.

     A summary of the status of the  Company's  two fixed stock option plans and
the Assumed Plans, and the related transactions is presented below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Years ended
                             -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   December 29,                December 30,               December 25,
                                       2001                        2000                       1999
                             -----------------------     -----------------------     -----------------------
                                            Weighted                    Weighted                    Weighted
                                            Average                     Average                     Average
                                            Exercise                    Exercise                    Exercise
                              Shares         Price        Shares         Price        Shares         Price
                             ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
<S>                          <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Outstanding at beginning
     of year ...........     4,650,722     $   24.59     5,439,340     $   23.53     4,434,173     $   25.89
Granted ................       883,600         28.73        93,500         14.77     1,447,935         17.35
Exercised ..............      (736,923)        19.21      (591,245)        11.00      (226,304)        36.22
Forfeited ..............      (151,128)        30.26      (290,873)        29.39      (216,464)        36.76
                             ---------                   ---------                   ---------
Outstanding at end
     of year ...........     4,646,271     $   26.04     4,650,722     $   24.59     5,439,340     $   23.53
                             =========                   =========                   =========
Options exercisable at
     year end ..........     3,722,164     $   26.53     3,708,213     $   25.98     3,593,439     $   23.62
                             =========                   =========                   =========
</TABLE>

     The following table summarizes  information about stock options outstanding
at December 29, 2001:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Options Outstanding            Options Exercisable
                                 ------------------------------------   ----------------------
                                                Weighted
                                                 Average     Weighted                 Weighted
                                                Remaining     Average                  Average
                                   Number      Contractual   Exercise     Number      Exercise
                                 Outstanding       Life        Price    Exercisable     Price
                                 -----------   -----------   --------   -----------   --------
Range of Exercise Prices
<S>                               <C>              <C>       <C>           <C>        <C>
$  4.21    to    $ 16.00          1,117,524        6.5       $ 12.05       875,127    $ 12.00
$ 16.13    to    $ 27.00          1,128,233        6.2       $ 22.46     1,081,265    $ 22.49
$ 28.63    to    $ 35.71          1,387,390        7.9       $ 30.69       756,019    $ 32.36
$ 36.08    to    $ 46.00          1,013,124        6.4       $ 39.09     1,009,753    $ 39.10
                                  ---------                              ---------
                                  4,646,271        6.8       $ 26.04     3,722,164    $ 26.53
                                  =========                              =========
</TABLE>
     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for  Stock  Issued to  Employees"  ("APB  25") and  related  interpretations  in
accounting for its employee  stock  options.  Under APB 25, because the exercise
price of the Company's  employee  stock  options  equals the market price of the
underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

                                       53
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 13--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY - (CONTINUED)

     Pro forma  information  regarding  net  income  and  earnings  per share is
required by FAS 123, and has been  determined as if the Company and its acquired
subsidiaries  had accounted for its employee  stock options under the fair value
method of FAS 123. The weighted  average  fair value of options  granted  during
2001, 2000, and 1999 was $17.05, $8.85, and $9.85, respectively.  The fair value
for these  options  was  estimated  at the date of grant  using a  Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following  weighted-average  assumptions for 2001,
2000, and 1999:  risk-free  interest rates of 5.0% for 2001,  6.3% for 2000, and
5.6% for 1999;  volatility  factor of the expected market price of the Company's
Common  Stock of 48.0% for 2001,  45.1%  for 2000,  and 45.8% for 1999,  assumed
dividend yield of 0% for all years and a  weighted-average  expected life of the
option of 10 years.

     Under the  accounting  provisions  of FAS 123, the Company's net income and
net income per common  share would have been  adjusted to the pro forma  amounts
indicated below:

                                                     Years ended
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      December 29,   December 30,   December 25,
                                          2001           2000           1999
                                      ------------   ------------   ------------
Net income ........................   $   80,728     $   48,630     $   43,012
Net income per common share:
     Basic ........................   $     1.91     $     1.18     $     1.06
     Diluted ......................   $     1.85     $     1.16     $     1.04

(c) Employee Benefit Plans

Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)

     In 1994,  the Company  established an ESOP and a related trust as a benefit
for  substantially  all of its domestic  employees.  This plan  supplements  the
Company's Profit Sharing Plan, whereby a percentage,  as defined,  of the profit
sharing  allocation  granted to eligible  employees is provided in shares of the
Company's Common Stock.  Charges to operations related to this plan were $2,378,
$2,537,  and  $2,283  for  2001,  2000,  and  1999,  respectively,  based on the
prevailing  market price of the Company's  Common Stock on the date of issuance.
Under this plan, the Company issued 61,997,  121,253,  and 101,233 shares of the
Company's  Common  Stock to the trust in 2001,  2000,  and 1999,  to satisfy the
2000, 1999, and 1998 contribution, respectively. The Company expects to fund the
2001 accrued  contribution in 2002 with shares of the Company's Common Stock. As
of April 1, 1998 the Company's  ESOP was merged into its 401(k) plan.  Shares of
the Company's Common Stock are held in trust by the 401(k) plan.

Profit Sharing Plan

     Prior to  April  1,  1998,  the  Company  had  qualified  contributory  and
noncontributory  401(k) and profit  sharing  plans,  respectively,  for eligible
employees.  As of April 1, 1998,  the Company's  profit  sharing plan was merged
into  its  401(k)  plan.  Assets  of the  profit  sharing  plan  are now held in
self-directed  accounts within the 401(k) plan.  Contributions to the plans were
determined  by the Board of  Directors  and charged to  operations  during 2001,
2000, and 1999 amounted to $4,099, $7,305, and $6,517, respectively.

                                       54
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 13--STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY -- (CONTINUED)

     The  Company  provides  a  matching  401(k)  contribution  of  100%  of the
participants'  contributions with respect to the first 7% of the employees' base
compensation.  Forfeitures  attributable to  participants  who leave the Company
before  becoming  fully  vested are used by the  Company to reduce the  matching
contribution.

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

     In 1994,  the Company  instituted  an unfunded  non-qualified  supplemental
executive  retirement plan for eligible  employees.  The increases in plan value
that were charged to operations,  were $426,  $360, and $617 for 2001, 2000, and
1999, respectively.

NOTE 14--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(a) Operating Leases

     The Company leases facilities and equipment under  noncancelable  operating
leases expiring  through 2013.  Management  expects that in the normal course of
business, leases will be renewed or replaced by other leases.

     Future minimum annual rental  payments  under the  noncancelable  leases at
December 29, 2001 are as follows:

                    2002.......................... $  19,866
                    2003..........................    17,087
                    2004..........................    15,300
                    2005..........................    13,591
                    2006..........................    10,547
                    Thereafter....................    30,167
                                                   ---------
                    Total minimum lease payments.. $ 106,558
                                                   =========


     The future  minimum  annual rental  payments  exclude the rent  obligations
associated  with  the  corporate  headquarters  as the  Company  purchased  this
facility on January 10, 2002.

     Total rental  expense for 2001,  2000, and 1999 was $26,085,  $29,730,  and
$25,798, respectively.

                                       55
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 14--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES --(CONTINUED)

(b)  Capital Leases

     The Company leases certain equipment under capital leases. The following is
a schedule  of  approximate  future  minimum  annual  lease  payments  under the
capitalized  leases  together  with the present  value of the net minimum  lease
payments at December 29, 2001:

        2002 ................................................  $   919
        2003 ................................................      556
        2004 ................................................      262
        2005 ................................................      163
        2006 ................................................      154
        Thereafter ..........................................      585
                                                               -------
        Total minimum lease payments ........................    2,639
        Less: Amount representing interest at 6.0% to 10.1%..     (499)
                                                               -------
                                                               $ 2,140
                                                               =======


(c)  Litigation

     The  Company's  business  involves a risk of product  liability  claims and
other  claims  in the  ordinary  course of  business,  and from time to time the
Company  is named as a  defendant  in cases as a result of its  distribution  of
pharmaceutical  and other  healthcare  products.  As of December 29,  2001,  the
Company was named a defendant in  approximately  72 product  liability cases. Of
these claims,  56 involve  claims made by healthcare  workers who claim allergic
reaction  relating to  exposure to latex  gloves.  In each of these  cases,  the
Company acted as a  distributor  of both brand name and "Henry  Schein"  private
brand latex gloves, which were manufactured by third parties. To date, discovery
in these cases has generally been limited to product  identification issues. The
manufacturers  in these  cases  have  withheld  indemnification  of the  Company
pending product identification;  however, the Company is taking steps to implead
those  manufacturers  into each case in which the  Company is a  defendant.  The
Company  is also a  named  defendant  in nine  lawsuits  involving  the  sale of
phentermine  and  fenfluramin.  Plaintiffs in the cases allege injuries from the
combined  use of the drugs known as  "Phen/fen."  The Company  expects to obtain
indemnification  from the  manufacturers  of these  products,  although  this is
dependent upon, among other things, the financial  viability of the manufacturer
and their insurers.

     In  Texas  District  Court,  Travis  County,  the  Company  and  one of its
subsidiaries  are defendants in a matter entitled Shelly E. Stromboe & Jeanne N.
Taylor,  on Behalf of  Themselves  and All Other  Similarly  Situated  vs. Henry
Schein, Inc., Easy Dental Systems, Inc. and Dentisoft,  Inc., Case No. 98-00886.
This complaint alleges among other things, negligence, breach of contract, fraud
and  violations  of certain  Texas  commercial  statutes  involving  the sale of
certain practice  management software products sold prior to 1998 under the Easy
Dental(R)  name.  In October  1999,  the  Court,  on  motion,  certified  both a
Windows(R)  Sub-Class and a DOS Sub-Class to proceed as a class action  pursuant
to Tex. R.Civ. P.42. It is estimated that 5,000 Windows(R)  customers and 15,000
DOS customers could be covered by the judge's  ruling.  In November of 1999, the
Company filed an interlocutory  appeal of the District Court's  determination to
the Texas  Court of  Appeals  on the  issue of  whether  this case was  properly
certified  as a class  action.  On  September  14,  2000,  the Court of  Appeals
affirmed the  District  Court's  certification  order.  On January 5, 2001,  the
Company filed a Petition for Review in the Texas Supreme Court asking this court
to find  "conflicts  jurisdiction"  to  permit  review of the  District  Court's
certification  order,  which appeal is now  pending.  On April 5, 2001 the Texas
Supreme Court requested that the parties file briefs on the merits.

                                       56
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 14--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES --(CONTINUED)

     On August  23,  2001,  the Texas  Supreme  Court  dismissed  the  Company's
Petition for Review based on lack of conflicts jurisdiction. The Company filed a
motion for  rehearing on September  24, 2001  requesting  that the Texas Supreme
Court  reconsider  and  reverse  its  finding  that  it  is  without   conflicts
jurisdiction  to review the case.  On November 8, 2001,  the Texas Supreme Court
granted the motion for rehearing and withdrew its order of August 23, 2001.  The
Texas Supreme Court heard oral argument on February 6, 2002.  Pending a decision
by the  Supreme  Court  on the  Petition  for  Review,  a trial  on the  merits,
currently scheduled for July, 2002, will be stayed.

     In February 2002, the Company was served with a summons and complaint in an
action  commenced  in the Superior  Court of New Jersey,  Law  Division,  Morris
County,  entitled  West Morris  Pediatrics,  P.A. v. Henry Schein,  Inc.,  doing
business as Caligor,  no.  MRSL-421-02.  The complaint by West Morris Pediatrics
purports  to be on behalf  of a  nationwide  class,  but there has been no court
determination  that the case may proceed as a class action.  Plaintiff  seeks to
represent a class of all physicians,  hospitals and other  healthcare  providers
throughout  New Jersey and across the United  States.  This  complaint  alleges,
among other things, breach of oral contract,  breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing,  violation of the New Jersey  Consumer Fraud Act, unjust
enrichment,  and  conversion.  The Company has not yet submitted its response to
this  complaint.  The Company  intends to vigorously  defend itself against this
claim, as well as all other claims, suits and complaints.

     The Company has various  insurance  policies,  including  product liability
insurance, covering risks and in amounts it considers adequate. In many cases in
which the Company has been sued in  connection  with  products  manufactured  by
others, the Company is provided  indemnification by the manufacturer.  There can
be no assurance  that the coverage  maintained  by the Company is  sufficient or
will  be  available  in  adequate  amounts  or at a  reasonable  cost,  or  that
indemnification  agreements will provide adequate protection for the Company. In
the opinion of the Company, all pending matters are covered by insurance or will
not otherwise seriously harm the Company's financial condition.

(d)  Employment, Consulting and Noncompete Agreements

     The Company has employment,  consulting and noncompete  agreements expiring
through  2006  (except  for a lifetime  consulting  agreement  with a  principal
stockholder which provides for initial compensation of $283 per year, increasing
$25 every fifth year beginning in 2002). The agreements provide for varying base
aggregate  annual  payments of  approximately  $4,946 per year,  which  decrease
periodically to approximately  $867 per year. In addition,  some agreements have
provisions for incentive and additional compensation.

                                       57
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 15--SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     Cash paid for interest and income taxes amounted to the following:

                                          Years ended
                        ------------------------------------------------
                        December 29,      December 30,      December 25,
                            2001              2000              1999
                        ------------      ------------      ------------
Interest............      $ 17,541          $ 19,810          $ 19,528
Income taxes........      $ 37,222          $ 28,219          $ 23,266


     The  fair  value  of  assets  acquired  through  business  acquisitions  is
indicated in the following table:

                                                    Years ended
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      December 29,   December 30,   December 25,
                                          2001           2000           1999
                                      ------------   ------------   ------------
Fair value of assets
     acquired, excluding cash ........ $ 10,074       $  6,838       $239,278
Less liabilities assumed
     and created upon acquisition ....    1,486           --          106,726
                                       --------       --------       --------
Net cash paid ........................ $  8,588       $  6,838       $132,552
                                       ========       ========       ========


                                       58
<PAGE>
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                       (In thousands, except share data)


NOTE 16--QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

     The following presents certain unaudited quarterly financial data:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                    Quarters ended
                                                  ---------------------------------------------------
                                                  March 31,   June 30,   September 29,   December 29,
                                                    2001        2001         2001            2001
                                                  ---------   --------   -------------   ------------
<S>                                               <C>         <C>          <C>             <C>
Net Sales ................................        $593,895    $606,285     $659,774        $698,289
Gross profit .............................         159,357     166,892      178,856         194,219
Operating income .........................          27,583      35,272       41,875          43,020
Net income ...............................          14,132      20,910       25,195          27,136
Net income per share:
     Basic ...............................        $   0.34    $   0.49     $   0.59        $   0.64
     Diluted .............................        $   0.33    $   0.48     $   0.58        $   0.62
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Quarters ended
                                                  ---------------------------------------------------
                                                  March 25,   June 24,     September 23,   December 30,
                                                    2000        2000         2000            2000
                                                  ---------   --------   -------------   ------------
<S>                                               <C>         <C>          <C>             <C>
Net Sales ................................        $554,139    $568,631     $603,319        $655,632
Gross profit .............................         149,116     158,815      161,951         178,019
Operating income .........................          23,477      30,982       28,944          29,186
Net income ...............................          11,398      16,381       16,238          12,732
Net income per share:
     Basic ...............................        $   0.28    $   0.40     $   0.39        $   0.31
     Diluted .............................        $   0.28    $   0.39     $   0.39        $   0.30
</TABLE>
     The  Company's   business  is  subject  to  seasonal  and  other  quarterly
influences.  Net sales and operating  profits are generally higher in the fourth
quarter due to timing of sales of software and  equipment,  year-end  promotions
and  purchasing  patterns  of  office-based  healthcare  practitioners  and  are
generally lower in the first quarter due primarily to the increased purchases in
the prior  quarter.  Quarterly  results  also may be  materially  affected  by a
variety of other  factors,  including  the timing of  acquisitions  and  related
costs,  timing of purchases,  special  promotional  campaigns,  fluctuations  in
exchange rates  associated  with  international  operations and adverse  weather
conditions.  In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company  recorded  non-recurring
after tax  losses  on  business  disposals  relating  to the sale of its  United
Kingdom practice management software  development  business unit and sale of its
50%  interest  in  dental   anesthetic   manufacturer,   HS   Pharmaceutical  of
approximately  $1,600  and  $1,900,   respectively.   Restructuring  charges  of
approximately  $5,400 and $9,000  pretax  ($3,400 and $5,900,  after taxes) were
recorded  in the third and fourth  quarters  of 2000,  respectively.  Merger and
integration  charges of approximately $600 were recorded in the first quarter of
2000.

     Diluted earnings per share calculations for each quarter include the effect
of stock  options,  when  dilutive  to the  quarter's  average  number of shares
outstanding  for each  period,  and  therefore  the sum of the  quarters may not
necessarily be equal to the full year earnings per share amount.

                                       59
<PAGE>
ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
     FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The  information  set forth  under the caption  "Executive  Officers of the
Registrant" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information set
forth under the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's definitive 2002
Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
from the  Company's  definitive  2002 Proxy  Statement  to be filed  pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
from the  Company's  definitive  2002 Proxy  Statement  to be filed  pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information  required by this item is hereby  incorporated by reference
from the  Company's  definitive  2002 Proxy  Statement  to be filed  pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.   Financial  Statements
          The Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the Company filed as a part
          of this report are listed on the index on page 28.

     2.   Financial  Statement
          Schedules Schedule II No other schedules are required.

     3.   Exhibits
          The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K and filed herewith
          are listed in the Exhibit List immediately preceding the exhibits.

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K
          None.


                                       60
<PAGE>

SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,  thereunto duly  authorized,  in the
City of Melville, State of New York, on March 19, 2002.

                                          Henry Schein, Inc.

                                          By: /s/ STANLEY M. BERGMAN
                                          Stanley M. Bergman  Chairman,
                                          Chief  Executive Officer and President

     Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 this
report has been signed by the following  persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

          Signature                     Capacity                       Date
-----------------------  ---------------------------------------  --------------
/s/ STANLEY BERGMAN      Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,       March 19, 2002
-----------------------       President and Director
Stanley M. Bergman            (principal executive officer)

/s/ STEVEN PALADINO      Executive Vice President, Chief          March 19, 2002
-----------------------       Financial Officer and Director
Steven Paladino               (principal financial and accounting
                              officer)

/s/ JAMES P. BRESLAWSKI  Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
James P. Breslawski

/s/ GERALD A. BENJAMIN   Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Gerald A. Bejamin

/s/ LEONARD A. DAVID     Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Leonard A. David

/s/ MARK. E. MLOTEK      Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Mark E. Mlotek

/s/ BARRY ALPERIN        Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Barry Alperin

/s/ PAMELA JOSEPH        Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Pamela Joseph

/s/ DONALD J. KABAT      Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Donald J. Kabat

/s/ PHILIP LASKAWY       Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Philip Laskawy

/s/ NORMAN MATTHEWS      Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Norman Matthews

/s/ MARVIN H. SCHEIN     Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Marvin H. Schein

/s/ IRVING SHAFRAN       Director                                 March 19, 2002
-----------------------
Irving Shafran

                                       61
<PAGE>
               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


Board of Directors and Stockholders
Henry Schein, Inc.
Melville, New York


The  audits  referred  to in our  report  dated  March 1, 2002  relating  to the
consolidated financial statements of Henry Schein, Inc. and subsidiaries,  which
is  contained  in ITEM 8 of the Form 10-K  included  the audit of the  financial
statement  schedule listed in the accompanying  index. This financial  statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our responsibility
is to  express an opinion on the  financial  statement  schedule  based upon our
audits.

In our opinion the financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.


BDO SEIDMAN, LLP



March 1, 2002
New York, New York

                                       62
<PAGE>
Exhibit No.                      Description                            Page No.
================================================================================
Unless  otherwise  indicated,  exhibits  are  incorporated  by  reference to the
correspondingly  numbered  exhibits in the Company's  Registration  Statement on
Form S-1 (Commission File No. 33-96528).

3.1    Form of Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation.
3.2    Amendments  dated  November  12,  1997 to  Amended  and  Restated
       Articles of  Incorporation  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
       3.3 to HSI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
       December 27, 1997).
3.3    Amendment dated June 16, 1998 to Amended and Restated Articles of
       Incorporation  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Henry
       Schein, Inc.'s Registration on Form S-3, Reg. No. 333-59793).
3.4    Form of By-laws.
3.5    Amendments  to Amended  and  Restated  By-laws  adopted  July 15,
       1997.(Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Henry  Schein,
       Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4, Reg. No. 33-36081).
10.1   Amended  and  Restated  HSI  Agreement  (the  "HSI   Agreement"),
       effective as of February 16, 1994,  among the Company,  Marvin H.
       Schein,  the Trust  established  by Marvin H. Schein  under Trust
       Agreement   dated   September  9,  1994,  the  Charitable   Trust
       established  by Marvin H.  Schein  under  Trust  Agreement  dated
       September  12, 1994,  the Estate of Jacob M.  Schein,  the Trusts
       established  by Articles Third and Fourth of the Will of Jacob M.
       Schein,  the Trust  established  by  Pamela  Joseph  under  Trust
       Agreement dated February 9, 1994, the Trust established by Martin
       Sperber under Trust Agreement dated September 19, 1994, the Trust
       established  by Stanley M. Bergman  under Trust  Agreement  dated
       September 15, 1994, Pamela Schein, Pamela Joseph, Martin Sperber,
       Stanley  M.  Bergman,  Steven  Paladino  and James P.  Breslawski
       (collectively, the "HSI Parties").
10.2   HSI Registration Rights Agreement dated September 30, 1994, among
       the  Company,  Pamela  Schein,  the Trust  established  by Pamela
       Joseph under Trust  Agreement  dated February 9, 1994,  Marvin H.
       Schein,  the Trust  established  by Marvin H. Schein  under Trust
       Agreement  dated  December 31,  1993,  the Trust  established  by
       Marvin H. Schein under Trust  Agreement dated September 19, 1994,
       the Charitable Trust  established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust
       Agreement  dated September 12, 1994,  Martin  Sperber,  the Trust
       established  by  Martin  Sperber  under  Trust   Agreement  dated
       September 19, 1994, Stanley M. Bergman and the Trust.
10.3   Letter  Agreement  dated  September  30, 1994 to the Company from
       Marvin H. Schein, Pamela Joseph, and Pamela Schein.
10.4   Release to the HSI Agreement dated September 30, 1994.
10.5   Separation  Agreement  dated  as of  September  30,  1994  by and
       between  the  Company,  Schein  Pharmaceutical,  Inc.  and Schein
       Holdings, Inc.


                                       63
<PAGE>
Exhibit No.                      Description                            Page No.
================================================================================

10.6   Restructuring  Agreement  dated  September  30, 1994 among Schein
       Holdings,  Inc.,  the  Company,  the  Estate of Jacob M.  Schein,
       Marvin H. Schein, the Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under
       Trust Agreement dated December 31, 1993, the Trust established by
       Marvin H. Schein under Trust  Agreement  dated September 9, 1994,
       the Charitable Trust  established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust
       Agreement dated September 12, 1994, Pamela Schein, Pamela Joseph,
       the Trust  established  by Pamela  Joseph  under Trust  Agreement
       dated  February  9,  1994  the Trusts  under  Articles  Third and
       Fourth of the Will of Jacob M. Schein;  Stanley M.  Bergman,  the
       Trust  established  by Stanley M. Bergman  under Trust  Agreement
       dated September 15, 1994,  Martin Sperber,  the Trust established
       by Martin Sperber under Trust  Agreement dated December 31, 1993,
       and the Trust established by Martin Sperber under Trust Agreement
       dated September 19, 1994.
10.7   Agreement  and Plan of Corporate  Separation  and  Reorganization
       dated as of September 30, 1994 among Schein  Holdings,  Inc., the
       Company,  the Estate of Jacob M. Schein,  Marvin H.  Schein,  the
       Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated
       December  31,  1993,  the Trust  established  by Marvin H. Schein
       under Trust  Agreement  dated  September 9, 1994,  the Charitable
       Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated
       September 12, 1994, Pamela Schein, the Trust established  Article
       Fourth of the Will of Jacob M.  Schein for the  benefit of Pamela
       Schein and her issue under Trust  Agreement  dated  September 29,
       1994, Pamela Joseph, the Trust established by Pamela Joseph under
       Trust Agreement dated February 9, 1994, the Trust  established by
       Pamela Joseph under Trust  Agreement dated September 28, 1994 and
       the Trusts under  Articles  Third and Fourth of the Will of Jacob
       M. Schein.
10.8   Henry  Schein,  Inc.  1994 Stock  Option  Plan,  as  amended  and
       restated effective as of June 6, 2001.**
10.9   Henry Schein,  Inc. Amendment and Restatement of the Supplemental
       Executive Retirement Plan. **
10.11  Consulting   Agreement  dated  September  30,  1994  between  the
       Company and Marvin H. Schein.**
10.13  Amended  and  Restated  Stock  Issuance  Agreement  dated  as  of
       December 24, 1992 between the Company and Stanley M. Bergman.**
10.14  Stock  Issuance  Agreements  dated  December 27, 1994 between the
       Company and various executive officers.**

                                       64
<PAGE>
Exhibit No.                      Description                            Page No.
================================================================================

10.15  Form of Henry Schein,  Inc.  Non-Employee  Director  Stock Option
       Plan.**
10.16  Amended  Credit  Agreement  dated  December  15,  1995  among the
       Company,  The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.,  Cooperatieve  Centrale
       Raiffeisen Boerenleenbank,  B.A. , New York Branch, Natwest Bank,
       "Rabobank   Nederland",   N.A.   and   European   American   Bank
       (Incorporated   by  reference  to  the   Company's   Registration
       Statement on Form S-1 (Commission File No. 33-96528)).
10.17  First  Amendment to the Amended Credit  Agreement  dated December
       15,  1995 among the  Company,  The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  N.A.,
       Natwest Bank, N.A.,  Rabobank  Nederland,  and European  American
       Bank.
10.18  Amendments to the Company's  1994 Stock Option Plan  effective as
       of July 15, 1997.
10.19  Revolving Credit Agreement (the ("Credit  Agreement") dated as of
       January 31, 1997 among the  Company,  The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,
       Fleet    Bank,    N.A.,    Cooperatieve    Centrale    Raiffeisen
       Boerenleenbank,  B.A., "Rabobank Nederland",  New York Branch and
       European  American  Bank  (Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
       10.20  to  the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1
       Commission File No. 33-96528)).
10.20  Employment  Agreement dated March 7, 1997, between Bruce J. Haber
       and the  Company  (Incorporated  by  reference  to the  Company's
       Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-30615)).
10.21  Termination  of  Employment  Agreement,  dated  March 7,  1997 as
       revised,  between Bruce J. Haber and the Company (Incorporated by
       reference  to  Exhibit  10.92  to  the   Company's   Registration
       Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-30615)).
10.22  Amendment  dated  as  of  June  30,  1997  to  Credit   Agreement
       (Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.103 to the  Company's
       Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-4   (Commission   File  No.
       333-36081)).
10.23  Amendment  No. 2 and  Supplement to Revolving  Credit  Agreement,
       dated  August 15,  1997  (Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
       10.104  to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-4
       (Commission File No. 333-36081)).
10.24  Lease   Agreement   dated   December  23,  1997,   between  First
       Industrial  Pennsylvania,  L.P. and the Company  (Incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit  10.103 to the Company's  1998 Annual Report
       on Form 10K).
10.25  Amendment   dated  as  of  May  15,  1998  to  Credit   Agreement
       (Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.108 to the  Company's
       Quarterly  Report  on Form  10Q for the  quarter  ended  June 27,
       1998).
10.26  Henry  Schein  Inc.,  Senior  Executive  Group  2002  Performance
       Incentive Plan Summary. **+
10.27  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and among the  Company,  New River
       Management Company,  L.L.C.,  Chiron Corporation and Biological &
       Popular Culture Inc., dated as of December 8, 1998  (Incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the  Company's  Current  Report on
       Form 8-K dated December 31, 1998).


                                       65
<PAGE>
Exhibit No.                      Description                            Page No.
================================================================================

10.28  Amendment  No. 1, dated as of  December  30,  1998,  to the Stock
       Purchase Agreement by and among the Company, New River Management
       Company,  L.L.C.,  Chiron  Corporation  and  Biological & Popular
       Culture  Inc.,  dated as of  December 8, 1998.  (Incorporated  by
       reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Company's  Current Report on Form
       8-K dated December 31, 1998).
10.29  Rights  Agreement  dated as of  November  30,  1998,  between the
       Company,   and   Continental   Stock   Transfer   and  Trust  Co.
       (Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit to the  Company's  Current
       Report on Form 8-K, dated November 30, 1998).
10.30  Form of the Note Purchase  Agreements between the Company and the
       Purchasers  listed on Schedule A thereto relating to an aggregate
       of $130,000,000 in principal amount of the Company's 6.94% Senior
       Notes due June 30, 2009  (Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
       10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the
       quarter ended June 26, 1999).
10.31  Form of Change in Control  Agreements  dated July 1, 2001 between
       the Company and Gerald Benjamin, James Breslawski, Leonard David,
       Mark Mlotek, Steven Paladino,  Michael Racioppi and Michael Zack,
       respectively. **+
10.32  Employment  Agreement  dated as of  January 1, 2000  between  the
       Company and Stanley M. Bergman. **
10.33  Form of Change in Control  Agreement  dated July 1, 2001 between
       the Company and Larry Gibson. **+
10.34  Form of Note  Purchase  Agreements  between  the  Company and the
       Purchasers  listed on Schedule A thereto relating to an aggregate
       of $100,000,000 in principal amount of the Company's 6.66% Senior
       Notes due July 15, 2010  (Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
       10.111  to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
       quarter ended September 26, 1998).
21.1   List of Subsidiaries of the Company.
23.1   Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP +
----------
+ Filed herewith
**Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or agreement


                                       66
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                   Schedule II
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                    Column A                        Column B      Column C       Column D       Column E
------------------------------------------------    --------      --------       --------       --------
                                                                 Additions
                                                                 ----------

                                                   Balance at    Charged to                     Balance
                                                   beginning     costs and                      at end of
Description                                        of period      expenses      Deductions       period
------------------------------------------------   ----------    ----------     ----------     ----------
<S>                                                 <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
Year ended December 25, 1999:
     Allowance for doubtful accounts............    $ 13,207      $  4,861       $ (5,268)      $ 12,800
     Other accounts receivable allowances (1)...       6,929         1,127           (465)         7,591
                                                    --------      --------       --------       --------
                                                    $ 20,136      $  5,988       $ (5,733)      $ 20,391
                                                    ========      ========       ========       ========


Year ended December 30, 2000:
     Allowance for doubtful accounts............    $ 12,800      $ 10,065       $ (4,834)      $ 18,031
     Other accounts receivable allowances (1)...       7,591         2,095           (161)         9,525
                                                    --------      --------       --------       --------
                                                    $ 20,391      $ 12,160       $ (4,995)      $ 27,556
                                                    ========      ========       ========       ========


Year ended December 29, 2001:
     Allowance for doubtful accounts............    $ 18,031      $  8,850       $ (4,479)      $ 22,402
     Other accounts receivable allowances (1)...       9,525         1,152         (1,150)         9,527
                                                    --------      --------       --------       --------
                                                    $ 27,556      $ 10,002       $ (5,629)      $ 31,929
                                                    ========      ========       ========       ========
----------
(1)  Primarily allowance for sales returns.
</TABLE>

                                       67
<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
