 10-Q 1 xcel06301710-q.htm 10-Q     Document  UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C.  20549FORM 10-Q(Mark One)xQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the quarterly period ended June 30, 2017 or  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934Commission File Number: 001-3034Xcel Energy Inc.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Minnesota 41-0448030(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   414 Nicollet Mall  Minneapolis, Minnesota 55401(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)(612) 330-5500(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    x Yes     NoIndicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 and Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    x Yes     NoIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company,  and  emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer   Non-accelerated filer    Smaller reporting company   (Do not check if smaller reporting company) Emerging growth company   If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).     Yes x NoIndicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date. TABLE OF CONTENTSPART IFINANCIAL INFORMATION Item 1  Financial Statements (unaudited)3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS5 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS6 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY7 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS9Item 2  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations34Item 3  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk52Item 4  Controls and Procedures52   PART IIOTHER INFORMATION Item 1  Legal Proceedings53Item 1A  Risk Factors53Item 2  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds53Item 6  Exhibits54   SIGNATURES55    Certifications Pursuant to Section 3021 Certifications Pursuant to Section 9061 Statement Pursuant to Private Litigation1This Form 10-Q is filed by Xcel Energy Inc.  Xcel Energy Inc. wholly owns the following subsidiaries: Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation (NSP-Minnesota); Northern States Power Company, a Wisconsin corporation (NSP-Wisconsin); Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo); and Southwestern Public Service Company (SPS).  Xcel Energy Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are also referred to herein as Xcel Energy.  NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS are also referred to collectively as utility subsidiaries.  The electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin, which is operated on an integrated basis and is managed by NSP-Minnesota, is referred to collectively as the NSP System.  Additional information on the wholly owned subsidiaries is available on various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).2Table of ContentsPART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATIONItem 1   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS3Table of Contents4Table of Contents5Table of Contents6Table of Contents7Table of Contents8Table of ContentsXCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (UNAUDITED)In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), the financial position of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries as of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016; the results of its operations, including the components of net income and comprehensive income, and changes in stockholders  equity for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016; and its cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016.  All adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature, except as otherwise disclosed.  Management has also evaluated the impact of events occurring after June 30, 2017 up to the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements.  These statements contain all necessary adjustments and disclosures resulting from that evaluation. The Dec. 31, 2016 balance sheet information has been derived from the audited 2016 consolidated financial statements included in the Xcel Energy Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016.  These notes to the consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC for Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP on an annual basis have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.  For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, included in the Xcel Energy Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016, filed with the SEC on Feb. 24, 2017.  Due to the seasonality of Xcel Energy s electric and natural gas sales, interim results are not necessarily an appropriate base from which to project annual results.1.Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesThe significant accounting policies set forth in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in the Xcel Energy Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016, appropriately represent, in all material respects, the current status of accounting policies and are incorporated herein by reference.2.Accounting PronouncementsRecently IssuedRevenue Recognition   In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Topic 606 (Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09), which provides a new framework for the recognition of revenue.  Xcel Energy expects its adoption will result in increased disclosures regarding revenue, cash flows and obligations related to arrangements with customers, as well as separate presentation of alternative revenue programs.  Xcel Energy has not yet fully determined the impacts of adoption for several aspects of the standard, including a determination whether and how much an evaluation of the collectability of regulated electric and gas revenues will impact the amounts of revenue recognized upon delivery.  Xcel Energy currently expects to implement the standard on a modified retrospective basis, which requires application to contracts with customers effective Jan. 1, 2018, with the cumulative impact on contracts not yet completed as of Dec. 31, 2017 recognized as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments   In January 2016, the FASB issued Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, Subtopic 825-10 (ASU No. 2016-01), which eliminates the available-for-sale classification for marketable equity securities and also replaces the cost method of accounting for non-marketable equity securities with a model for recognizing impairments and observable price changes.  Under the new standard, other than when the consolidation or equity method of accounting is utilized, changes in the fair value of equity securities are to be recognized in earnings.  This guidance will be effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after Dec. 15, 2017.  Xcel Energy expects that as a result of application of accounting principles for rate regulated entities, changes in the fair value of the securities in the nuclear decommissioning fund, currently classified as available-for-sale, will continue to be deferred to a regulatory asset, and that the overall impacts of the Jan. 1, 2018 adoption will not be material.Leases   In February 2016, the FASB issued Leases, Topic 842 (ASU No. 2016-02), which for lessees requires balance sheet recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases.  This guidance will be effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after Dec. 15, 2018.  Xcel Energy has not yet fully determined the impacts of implementation.  However, adoption is expected to occur on Jan. 1, 2019 utilizing the practical expedients provided by the standard.  As such, agreements entered prior to Jan. 1, 2017 that are currently considered leases are expected to be recognized on the consolidated balance sheet, including contracts for use of office space, equipment and natural gas storage assets, as well as certain purchased power agreements (PPAs) for natural gas-fueled generating facilities.  Xcel Energy expects that similar agreements entered after Dec. 31, 2016 will generally qualify as leases under the new standard, but has not yet completed its evaluation of certain other contracts, including arrangements for the secondary use of assets, such as land easements.9Table of ContentsPresentation of Net Periodic Benefit Cost   In March 2017, the FASB issued Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, Topic 715 (ASU No. 2017-07), which establishes that only the service cost element of pension cost may be presented as a component of operating income in the income statement.  Also under the guidance, only the service cost component of pension cost is eligible for capitalization.  Xcel Energy has not yet fully determined the impacts of adoption of the standard, but expects that as a result of application of accounting principles for rate regulated entities, a similar amount of pension cost, including non-service components, will be recognized consistent with the current ratemaking treatment and that the impacts of adoption will be limited to changes in classification of non-service costs in the consolidated statement of income.  This guidance will be effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after Dec. 15, 2017.  Recently AdoptedStock Compensation   In March 2016, the FASB issued Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, Topic 718 (ASU No. 2016-09), which simplifies accounting and financial statement presentation for share-based payment transactions.  The guidance requires that the difference between the tax deduction available upon settlement of share-based equity awards and the tax benefit accumulated over the vesting period be recognized as an adjustment to income tax expense.  Xcel Energy adopted the guidance in 2016, resulting in immaterial 2016 adjustments to income tax expense and changes in classification of cash flows related to tax withholding in the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended Dec. 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.3.Selected Balance Sheet Data(a) In the second half of 2017, PSCo expects to both early retire Valmont Unit 5 and convert Cherokee Unit 4 from a coal-fueled generating facility to natural gas.  PSCo also expects Craig Unit 1 to be early retired in approximately 2025.  Amounts are presented net of accumulated depreciation.10Table of Contents4.Income TaxesExcept to the extent noted below, Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in Xcel Energy Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 appropriately represents, in all material respects, the current status of other income tax matters, and are incorporated herein by reference.Federal Loss Carryback Claims   In 2012-2015, Xcel Energy identified certain expenses related to 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013, 2014 and 2015 that qualify for an extended carryback beyond the typical two-year carryback period.  As a result of a higher tax rate in prior years, Xcel Energy recognized a tax benefit of approximately $5 million in 2015, $17 million in 2014, $12 million in 2013 and $15 million in 2012.Federal Audits   Xcel Energy files a consolidated federal income tax return.  The statute of limitations applicable to Xcel Energy s 2009 through 2013 federal income tax returns, following extensions, expires in December 2017.In 2012, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) commenced an examination of tax years 2010 and 2011, including the 2009 carryback claim.  The IRS has proposed an adjustment to the federal tax loss carryback claims that would result in $14 million of income tax expense for the 2009 through 2011 claims, and the 2013 through 2015 claims.  In 2016 the IRS audit team and Xcel Energy presented their cases to the Office of Appeals; however, the outcome and timing of a resolution is uncertain. In the third quarter of 2015, the IRS commenced an examination of tax years 2012 and 2013.  In the second quarter of 2017, the IRS proposed an adjustment to tax year 2012 that may impact Xcel Energy s net operating loss (NOL) and effective tax rate (ETR).  Xcel Energy is evaluating the IRS  proposal and the outcome and timing of a resolution is uncertain.State Audits   Xcel Energy files consolidated state tax returns based on income in its major operating jurisdictions of Colorado, Minnesota, Texas, and Wisconsin, and various other state income-based tax returns. As of June 30, 2017, Xcel Energy s earliest open tax years that are subject to examination by state taxing authorities in its major operating jurisdictions were as follows: In 2016, Minnesota began an audit of years 2010 through 2014.  As of June 30, 2017, Minnesota had not proposed any adjustments;   In 2016, Texas began an audit of years 2009 and 2010.  As of June 30, 2017, Texas had not proposed any material adjustments; In 2016, Wisconsin began an audit of years 2012 and 2013.  As of June 30, 2017, Wisconsin had not proposed any material adjustments; and   As of June 30, 2017, there were no other state income tax audits in progress.Unrecognized Benefits   The unrecognized tax benefit balance includes permanent tax positions, which if recognized would affect the annual ETR. In addition, the unrecognized tax benefit balance includes temporary tax positions for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility.  A change in the period of deductibility would not affect the ETR but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period.A reconciliation of the amount of unrecognized tax benefit is as follows:11Table of ContentsThe unrecognized tax benefit amounts were reduced by the tax benefits associated with NOL and tax credit carryforwards.  The amounts of tax benefits associated with NOL and tax credit carryforwards are as follows:It is reasonably possible that Xcel Energy s amount of unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change in the next 12 months as the IRS Appeals and audit progress, the Minnesota, Texas and Wisconsin audits progress, and other state audits resume.  As the IRS Appeals and IRS, Minnesota, Texas and Wisconsin audits progress, it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefit could decrease up to approximately $61 million.The payable for interest related to unrecognized tax benefits is partially offset by the interest benefit associated with NOL and tax credit carryforwards.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of the payable for interest related to unrecognized tax benefits are as follows:(Millions of Dollars) June 30, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016Payable for interest related to unrecognized tax benefits at beginning of period $(3.4) $(0.1)Interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits recorded during the period (1.7) (3.3)Payable for interest related to unrecognized tax benefits at end of period $(5.1) $(3.4)No amounts were accrued for penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of June 30, 2017 or Dec. 31, 2016.5. Rate MattersExcept to the extent noted below, the circumstances set forth in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Xcel Energy Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 and in Note 5 to Xcel Energy Inc. s Quarterly Report onForm 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017, appropriately represent, in all material respects, the current status of other rate matters, and are incorporated herein by reference.NSP-MinnesotaPending and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings   Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) Minnesota 2016 Multi-Year Electric Rate Case   In June 2017, the MPUC issued a written order.  NSP-Minnesota estimates the total rate increase to be approximately $245 million over the four-year period covering 2016-2019.Key terms: Annual sales true-up; Return on equity (ROE) of 9.2 percent and an equity ratio of 52.5 percent; Nuclear related costs will not be considered provisional; Continued use of all existing riders, however no new riders may be utilized during the four-year term;  Deferral of incremental 2016 property tax expense above a fixed threshold to 2018 and 2019;  Four-year stay-out provision for rate cases;12Table of ContentsAnnual Automatic Adjustment of Fuel Clause Charges   In 2016, the Minnesota Department of Commerce (DOC) recommended the MPUC should hold utilities responsible for incremental costs of replacement power incurred due to unplanned outages at nuclear facilities under certain circumstances.  In May 2017, the MPUC voted to disallow approximately $4.4 million of replacement energy costs for the Prairie Island (PI) nuclear facility outages allocated to the Minnesota jurisdiction in 2015.  This disallowance was recognized in the second quarter of 2017.  The MPUC issued a written order in July 2017.  In addition, the DOC is currently reviewing nuclear costs and operations under the initial rate case and resource plan orders as well as the recently finalized rate case.NSP-WisconsinPending Regulatory Proceeding   Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW)Wisconsin 2018 Electric and Natural Gas Rate Case   In May 2017, NSP-Wisconsin filed a request with the PSCW to increase electric rates by $24.7 million, or 3.6 percent, and natural gas rates by $12.0 million, or 10.1 percent, effective January 2018.  The rate filing is based on a 2018 forecast test year, a ROE of 10.0 percent, an equity ratio of 52.53 percent and a forecasted average net investment rate base of approximately $1.2 billion for the electric utility and $138.4 million for the natural gas utility.Key dates in the procedural schedule are as follows: Staff and intervenor testimony   Sept. 12, 2017; Sur-rebuttal testimony   Oct. 3, 2017; andA PSCW decision is anticipated in the fourth quarter of 2017.PSCoPending and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings   Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)Multi-Year Natural Gas Rate Case   In June 2017,  PSCo filed a multi-year request with the CPUC seeking to increase retail natural gas rates to recover capital investments and increased operating costs since PSCo s previous case in 2015.  The request, detailed below, is based on forecast test years, a 10.0 percent ROE and an equity ratio of 55.25 percent.(a)  The roll-in of PSIA rider revenue into base rates will not have an impact on customer bills or total revenue as these costs are already being recovered from customers through the rider.  PSCo plans to request new PSIA rates for 2018 in November 2017.  The recovery of new, incremental PSIA related investments in 2019 and 2020 are included in the base rate request.(b)  The additional rate base in 2019 predominantly reflects the roll-in of capital associated with the PSIA rider.Final rates are expected to be effective in February 2018.  In conjunction with the multi-year base rate step increases, PSCo is also proposing a stay-out provision and an earnings test through the end of 2020.Annual Electric Earnings Test   PSCo must share with customers earnings that exceed the authorized ROE of 9.83 percent for 2015 through 2017, as part of an annual earnings test.  In July 2017, the CPUC approved PSCo s 2016 earnings test, which does not result in any earnings sharing.  The current estimate of the 2017 earnings test, based on annual forecasted information, did not result in the recognition of a liability as of June 30, 2017. 13Table of ContentsSPSPending and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings   Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT)Appeal of the Texas 2015 Electric Rate Case Decision   In 2014, SPS had requested an overall retail electric revenue rate increase of $42.1 million.  In 2015, the PUCT approved an overall rate decrease of approximately $4.0 million, net of rate case expenses.  In April 2016, SPS filed an appeal, with the Texas State District Court, of the PUCT s order that had denied SPS  request for rehearing on certain items in SPS  Texas 2015 electric rate case related to capital structure, incentive compensation and wholesale load reductions.  In March 2017, the Travis County District Court denied SPS  appeal.  In April 2017, SPS appealed the District Court s decision to the Court of Appeals.Texas 2016 Transmission Cost Recovery Factor (TCRF) Application   In February 2017, SPS filed with the PUCT to recover additional annual revenue of approximately $16.1 million through its TCRF, or 1.8 percent.  The filing was based upon capital transmission additions made during 2016.  In June 2017, the PUCT approved TCRF rider recovery of approximately $14.4 million effective immediately.Pending Regulatory Proceeding   New Mexico Public Regulation Commission (NMPRC)New Mexico 2016 Electric Rate Case   In November 2016, SPS filed an electric rate case with the NMPRC seeking an increase in base rates of approximately $41.4 million, representing a total revenue increase of approximately 10.9 percent.  The rate filing is based on a requested ROE of 10.1 percent, an equity ratio of 53.97 percent, an electric rate base of approximately $832 million and a future test year ending June 30, 2018. On April 10, 2017, the hearing examiner determined that SPS  rate filing was deficient and recommended the NMPRC extend the procedural schedule by approximately one month and restart the suspension period once it is determined that the deficiencies are resolved.  On April 19, 2017, the NMPRC dismissed SPS  rate case.  On May 15, 2017, SPS filed a notice of appeal to the New Mexico Supreme Court.  A decision from the New Mexico Supreme Court is not expected until the second or third quarter of 2018.Pending Regulatory Proceeding   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO) ROE Complaints   In November 2013, a group of customers filed a complaint at the FERC against MISO transmission owners (TOs), including NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.  The complaint argued for a reduction in the ROE in transmission formula rates in the MISO region from 12.38 percent to 9.15 percent, and the removal of ROE adders (including those for Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) membership), effective Nov. 12, 2013.In December 2015, an administrative law judge (ALJ) recommended the FERC approve a base ROE of 10.32 percent for the MISO TOs.  The ALJ found the existing 12.38 percent ROE to be unjust and unreasonable.  The recommended 10.32 percent ROE applied a FERC ROE policy adopted in a June 2014 order (Opinion 531).  The FERC approved the ALJ recommended 10.32 percent base ROE in an order issued in September 2016.  This ROE would be applicable for the 15 month refund period from Nov. 12, 2013 to Feb. 11, 2015, and prospectively from the date of the FERC order.  The total prospective ROE would be 10.82 percent, including a 50 basis point adder for RTO membership.  Various parties requested rehearing of the September 2016 order.  The requests are pending FERC action.In February 2015, a second complaint seeking to reduce the MISO ROE from 12.38 percent to 8.67 percent prior to any adder was filed with the FERC, resulting in a second period of potential refund from Feb. 12, 2015 to May 11, 2016.  In June 2016, the ALJ recommended a ROE of 9.7 percent, applying the methodology adopted by the FERC in Opinion 531.  A final FERC decision on the second ROE complaint was expected later in 2017, but in April 2017, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) by opinion, vacated and remanded Opinion 531.  It is unclear how the D.C. Circuit s opinion to vacate and remand Opinion 531 will affect the September 2016 FERC order or the timing and outcome of the second ROE complaint.  The MISO TOs are evaluating the impact of the D.C. Circuit ruling on the November 2013 and February 2015 ROE complaints.As of June 30, 2017, NSP-Minnesota has processed the refunds for the Nov. 12, 2013 to Feb. 11, 2015 complaint period based on the 10.32 percent ROE provided in the September 2016 FERC order.  NSP-Minnesota has also recognized a current refund liability consistent with the best estimate of the final ROE for the Feb. 12, 2015 to May 11, 2016 complaint period.14Table of Contents6.Commitments and Contingencies Except to the extent noted below and in Note 5 above, the circumstances set forth in Notes 12, 13 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Xcel Energy Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016, and in Notes 5 and 6 to theconsolidated financial statements included in Xcel Energy Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017 appropriately represent, in all material respects, the current status of commitments and contingent liabilities and are incorporated herein by reference.  The following include commitments, contingencies and unresolved contingencies that are material to Xcel Energy s financial position.PPAsUnder certain PPAs, NSP-Minnesota, PSCo and SPS purchase power from independent power producing entities for which the utility subsidiaries are required to reimburse natural gas or biomass fuel costs, or to participate in tolling arrangements under which the utility subsidiaries procure the natural gas required to produce the energy that they purchase.  These specific PPAs create a variable interest in the associated independent power producing entity.The Xcel Energy utility subsidiaries had approximately 3,537 megawatts (MW) of capacity under long-term PPAs as of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, with entities that have been determined to be variable interest entities.  Xcel Energy has concluded that these entities are not required to be consolidated in its consolidated financial statements because it does not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entities  economic performance.  These agreements have expiration dates through 2041.Guarantees and Bond IndemnificationsXcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries provide guarantees and bond indemnities under specified agreements or transactions.  The guarantees and bond indemnities issued by Xcel Energy Inc. guarantee payment or performance by its subsidiaries.  As a result, Xcel Energy Inc. s exposure under the guarantees and bond indemnities is based upon the net liability of the relevant subsidiary under the specified agreements or transactions.  Most of the guarantees and bond indemnities issued by Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries have a stated maximum guarantee or indemnity amount.  As of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries had no assets held as collateral related to their guarantees, bond indemnities and indemnification agreements.The following table presents guarantees and bond indemnities issued and outstanding for Xcel Energy:(Millions of Dollars) June 30, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016Guarantees issued and outstanding $18.3 $18.8Current exposure under these guarantees   0.1Bonds with indemnity protection 49.4 43.0Other Indemnification AgreementsXcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries provide indemnifications through contracts entered into in the normal course of business.  These are primarily indemnifications against adverse litigation outcomes in connection with underwriting agreements, as well as breaches of representations and warranties, including corporate existence, transaction authorization and income tax matters with respect to assets sold.  Xcel Energy Inc. s and its subsidiaries  obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of duration and amount.  The maximum future payments under these indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated as the dollar amounts are often not explicitly stated.Environmental ContingenciesAshland Manufactured Gas Plant (MGP) Site   NSP-Wisconsin was named a potentially responsible party (PRP) for contamination at a site in Ashland, Wis.  The Ashland/Northern States Power Lakefront Superfund Site (the Site) includes NSP-Wisconsin property, previously operated as a MGP facility (the Upper Bluff), and two other properties: an adjacent city lakeshore park area (Kreher Park); and an area of Lake Superior s Chequamegon Bay adjoining the park.15Table of ContentsIn 2012, NSP-Wisconsin agreed to remediate the Phase I Project Area (which includes the Upper Bluff and Kreher Park areas of the Site), under a settlement agreement with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).NSP-Wisconsin performed a wet dredge pilot study in 2016 and demonstrated that a wet dredge remedy can meet the performance standards for remediation of the Phase II Project Area (the Sediments).  As a result, the EPA authorized NSP-Wisconsin to extend the wet dredge pilot to additional areas of the Site.  In January 2017, NSP-Wisconsin agreed to remediate the Sediments, under a settlement agreement with the EPA.  The settlement was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin.  NSP-Wisconsin has initiated field activities to perform a full scale wet dredge remedy of the Sediments in 2017, with performance of restoration activities in 2018. The current cost estimate for the entire site is approximately $160.0 million, of which approximately $113.2 million has been spent.  At June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, NSP-Wisconsin had recorded a total liability of $46.8 million and $64.3 million, respectively, for the entire site.NSP-Wisconsin has deferred the unrecovered portion of the estimated Site remediation costs as a regulatory asset.  The PSCW has authorized NSP-Wisconsin rate recovery for all remediation costs incurred at the Site.  In 2012, the PSCW agreed to allow NSP-Wisconsin to pre-collect certain costs, to amortize costs over a ten-year period and to apply a three percent carrying cost to the unamortized regulatory asset.  In May 2017, NSP-Wisconsin filed a natural gas rate case which included recovery of additional expenses associated with remediating the Site.  If approved, the annual recovery of MGP clean-up costs would increase from $12.4 million in 2017 to $18.1 million in 2018.Fargo, N.D. MGP Site   In May 2015, underground pipes, tars and impacted soils were discovered in a right-of-way in Fargo, N.D. that appeared to be associated with a former MGP operated by NSP-Minnesota or prior companies.  NSP-Minnesota removed impacted soils and other materials from the right-of-way and commenced an investigation of the historic MGP and adjacent properties (the Fargo MGP Site).  NSP-Minnesota has recommended that targeted source removal of impacted soils and historic MGP infrastructure should be performed.  The North Dakota Department of Health approved NSP-Minnesota s proposed cleanup plan in January 2017. The timing and final scope of remediation is dependent on whether reasonable access is provided to NSP-Minnesota to perform and implement the approved cleanup plan.  NSP-Minnesota has also initiated insurance recovery litigation in North Dakota.  The U.S. District Court for the District of North Dakota agreed to the parties  request for a stay of the litigation until September 2017.As of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, NSP-Minnesota had recorded a liability of $16.4 million and $11.3 million, respectively, for the Fargo MGP Site.  The current cost estimate for the remediation of the site is approximately $23.0 million, of which approximately $6.6 million has been spent.  In December 2015, the North Dakota Public Service Commission (NDPSC) approved NSP-Minnesota s request to defer costs associated with the Fargo MGP Site, resulting in deferral of all investigation and response costs with the exception of approximately 12 percent allocable to the Minnesota jurisdiction.  Uncertainties related to the liability recognized include obtaining access to perform the approved remediation (including the prospective purchase of the historic MGP property), final designs that will be developed to implement the approved cleanup plan and the potential for contributions from entities that may be identified as PRPs. Other MGP and Landfill Sites   Xcel Energy is currently involved in investigating and/or remediating several other MGP and landfill sites.  Xcel Energy has identified ten sites across its service territories in addition to the sites in Ashland, Wis. and Fargo, N.D., where former MGP or landfill disposal activities have or may have resulted in site contamination and are under current investigation and/or remediation.  At some or all of these sites, there are other parties that may have responsibility for some portion of any remediation.  Xcel Energy anticipates that the majority of the investigation or remediation at these sites will continue through at least 2018.  Xcel Energy had accrued $2.9 million and $2.0 million for these sites at June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, respectively.  There may be insurance recovery and/or recovery from other PRPs to offset any costs incurred.  Xcel Energy anticipates that any significant amounts incurred will be recovered from customers.Environmental RequirementsWater and WasteFederal Clean Water Act (CWA) Waters of the United States Rule   In 2015, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) published a final rule that significantly expands the types of water bodies regulated under the CWA and broadens the scope of waters subject to federal jurisdiction.  The final rule will subject more utility projects to federal CWA jurisdiction, thereby potentially delaying the siting of new generation projects, pipelines, transmission lines and distribution lines, as well as increasing project costs and expanding permitting and reporting requirements.  In October 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay of the final rule and subsequently ruled that it, rather than the federal district courts, had jurisdiction over challenges to the rule.  In January 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to resolve the dispute as to which court should hear challenges to the rule.  A ruling is expected by the end of 2017. 16Table of ContentsIn February 2017, President Trump issued an executive order requiring the EPA and the Corps to review and revise the final rule.  On June 27, 2017, the agencies issued a proposed rule that rescinds the 2015 final rule and reinstates the prior 1986 definition of  Water of the U.S.  AirGreenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Standard for Existing Sources (Clean Power Plan or CPP)   In 2015, the EPA issued its final rule for existing power plants.  Among other things, the rule requires that state plans include enforceable measures to ensure emissions from existing power plants achieve the EPA s state-specific interim (2022-2029) and final (2030 and thereafter) emission performance targets.  The CPP was challenged by multiple parties in the D.C. Circuit Court.  In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court issued an order staying the final CPP rule.  In September 2016, the D.C. Circuit Court heard oral arguments in the consolidated challenges to the CPP.  The stay will remain in effect until the D.C. Circuit Court reaches its decision and the U.S. Supreme Court either declines to review the lower court s decision or reaches a decision of its own. In March 2017, President Trump signed an executive order requiring the EPA Administrator to review the CPP rule and if appropriate, publish proposed rules suspending, revising or rescinding it.  Accordingly, the EPA has requested that the D.C. Circuit Court hold the litigation in abeyance until the EPA completes its work under the executive order.  The D.C. Circuit granted the EPA s request to hold the litigation in abeyance until June 27, 2017, and is considering briefs by the parties on whether the court should remand the challenges to the EPA rather than holding them in abeyance, to determine whether and how the court continues or ends the stay that currently applies to the CPP.  On June 9, 2017, the EPA submitted a proposed rule to the Office of Management and Budget entitled  Review of the Clean Power Plan.    Regional Haze Rules   The regional haze program is designed to address widespread haze that results from emissions from a multitude of sources.  The Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) requirements of the EPA s regional haze rules require the installation and operation of emission controls for industrial facilities emitting air pollutants that reduce visibility in national parks and wilderness areas.  Under BART, regional haze plans identify facilities that will have to reduce Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) and particulate matter emissions and set emission limits for those facilities.  BART requirements can also be met through participation in interstate emission trading programs such as the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) and its successor, Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR).  The regional haze plans developed by Minnesota and Colorado have been fully approved and are being implemented in those states.  States are required to revise their plans every ten years.  The next plans for Minnesota and Colorado will be due in 2021.  Texas  first regional haze plan is still undergoing federal review as described below.  President Trump s Administration has not yet taken any public position regarding its views of the proposed and final regional haze regulations affecting SPS facilities in Texas.  Actions affecting Harrington Units: Texas developed a State Implementation Plan (SIP) that finds the CAIR equal to BART for electric generating units.  As a result, no additional controls beyond CAIR compliance would be required.  In 2014, the EPA proposed to approve the BART portion of the SIP, with substitution of CSAPR compliance for Texas  reliance on CAIR.  In January 2016, the EPA adopted a final rule that defers its approval of CSAPR compliance as BART until the EPA considers further adjustments to CSAPR emission budgets under the D.C. Circuit Court s remand of the Texas SO2 emission budgets.  In June 2016, the EPA issued a memorandum which allows Texas to voluntarily adopt the CSAPR emission budgets limiting annual SO2 and NOx emissions and rely on those emission budgets to satisfy Texas  BART obligations under the regional haze rules.  The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has not utilized this option.  The EPA then published a proposed rule in January 2017 that could have the effect of requiring installation of dry scrubbers to reduce SO2 emissions from Harrington Units 1 and 2.  Investment costs associated with dry scrubbers for Harrington Units 1 and 2 could be approximately $400 million.  The EPA s deadline to issue a final rule for Texas is September 2017. Actions affecting Tolk units: In January 2016, the EPA adopted a final rule establishing a federal implementation plan for the state of Texas, which imposed SO2 emission limitations that reflect the installation of dry scrubbers on Tolk Units 1 and 2, with compliance required by February 2021.  Investment costs associated with dry scrubbers could be approximately $600 million.  SPS appealed the EPA s decision and requested a stay of the final rule.  The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (Fifth Circuit) granted the stay and decided that they are the appropriate venue for this case.  In March 2017, the Fifth Circuit remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration, while leaving the stay in effect.  The Fifth Circuit is now holding the case in abeyance until the EPA completes its reconsideration of the rule.  It is likely that Texas and other affected entities including SPS would continue to challenge the determinations to date.  The risk of these controls being imposed along with the risk of investments to provide cooling water to Tolk have caused SPS to seek to decrease the remaining depreciable life of the Tolk units.17Table of ContentsRevisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for Ozone   In 2015, the EPA revised the NAAQS for ozone by lowering the eight-hour standard from 75 parts per billion (ppb) to 70 ppb.  In areas where Xcel Energy operates, current monitored air quality concentrations comply with the new standard in the Twin Cities Metropolitan Area in Minnesota and meet the 70 ppb level in the Texas panhandle.  In documents issued with the new standard, the EPA projects that both areas will meet the new standard.  The Denver Metropolitan Area is currently not meeting the prior ozone standard and will therefore not meet the new, more stringent standard, however PSCo s scheduled retirement of coal fired plants in Denver that began in 2011 and will be completed in August 2017, should help in any plan to mitigate non-attainment.  In June 2017, the EPA announced that it is delaying designations of nonattainment areas under the 2015 ozone NAAQS to October 2018 to allow it to complete its review of the 2015 ozone NAAQS.Legal ContingenciesXcel Energy is involved in various litigation matters that are being defended and handled in the ordinary course of business.  The assessment of whether a loss is probable or is a reasonable possibility, and whether the loss or a range of loss is estimable, often involves a series of complex judgments about future events.  Management maintains accruals for such losses that are probable of being incurred and subject to reasonable estimation.  Management is sometimes unable to estimate an amount or range of a reasonably possible loss in certain situations, including but not limited to when (1) the damages sought are indeterminate, (2) the proceedings are in the early stages, or (3) the matters involve novel or unsettled legal theories.  In such cases, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the timing or ultimate resolution of such matters, including a possible eventual loss.  For current proceedings not specifically reported herein, management does not anticipate that the ultimate liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings would have a material effect on Xcel Energy s financial statements.  Unless otherwise required by GAAP, legal fees are expensed as incurred.Employment, Tort and Commercial LitigationGas Trading Litigation   e prime, inc. (e prime) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy.  e prime was in the business of natural gas trading and marketing but has not engaged in natural gas trading or marketing activities since 2003.  Thirteen lawsuits were commenced against e prime and Xcel Energy (and NSP-Wisconsin, in two instances) between 2003 and 2009 alleging fraud and anticompetitive activities in conspiring to restrain the trade of natural gas and manipulate natural gas prices.  The cases were consolidated in U.S. District Court in Nevada.  Five of the cases have since been settled and seven remain active, which includes one multi-district litigation (MDL) matter consisting of a Colorado class (Breckenridge), a Wisconsin class (NSP-Wisconsin), a Kansas class, and two other cases identified as  Sinclair Oil  and  Farmland.   In November 2016, the MDL judge dismissed e prime and Xcel Energy from the Farmland lawsuit, and Farmland has appealed the dismissal.  Motions for summary judgment were filed by defendants, including e prime, in all of the remaining lawsuits.  In March 2017, the U.S. District Court issued an order dismissing the claims against e prime in the Sinclair Oil lawsuit and denied plaintiffs motions for class certification in the other lawsuits.  The U.S. District Court did not grant e prime s summary judgment motions in the Wisconsin or Colorado cases.  There are currently additional motions brought by e prime for reconsideration and summary judgment pending in the U.S. District Court.  Xcel Energy, NSP-Wisconsin and e prime have concluded that a loss is remote. Line Extension Disputes   In December 2015, Development Recovery Company (DRC) filed a lawsuit in Denver State Court, stating PSCo failed to award proper allowances and refunds for line extensions to new developments pursuant to the terms of electric and gas service agreements entered into by PSCo and various developers.  The dispute involves claims by over fifty developers.  In May 2016, the district court granted PSCo s motion to dismiss the lawsuit, concluding that jurisdiction over this dispute resides with the CPUC.  In June 2016, DRC appealed the district court s dismissal of the lawsuit, and the Colorado Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court decision in favor of PSCo.  In July 2017, DRC filed a petition to appeal the decision with the Colorado Supreme Court.  It is uncertain whether the Colorado Supreme Court will grant the petition.  DRC also brought a proceeding before the CPUC as assignee on behalf of two developers, Ryland Homes and Richmond Homes of Colorado.  In March 2016, the ALJ issued an order rejecting DRC s claims for additional allowances and refunds.  In June 2016, the ALJ s determination was approved by the CPUC.  DRC did not file a request for reconsideration before the CPUC contesting the decision, but filed an appeal in Denver District Court in August 2016.  DRC has requested a hearing for oral arguments, which has yet to be granted or set by the Denver District Court.PSCo has concluded that a loss is remote with respect to this matter as the service agreements were developed to implement CPUC approved tariffs and PSCo has complied with the tariff provisions.  Also, if a loss were sustained, PSCo believes it would be allowed to recover these costs through traditional regulatory mechanisms.  The amount or range in dispute is presently unknown and no accrual has been recorded for this matter. 18Table of Contents7.Borrowings and Other Financing InstrumentsShort-Term Borrowings Money Pool   Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries have established a money pool arrangement that allows for short-term investments in and borrowings between the utility subsidiaries.  NSP-Wisconsin does not participate in the money pool.  Xcel Energy Inc. may make investments in the utility subsidiaries at market-based interest rates; however, the money pool arrangement does not allow the utility subsidiaries to make investments in Xcel Energy Inc.  The money pool balances are eliminated in consolidation.Commercial Paper   Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries meet their short-term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings under their credit facilities.  Commercial paper outstanding for Xcel Energy was as follows:(Amounts in Millions, Except Interest Rates) Three Months Ended   June 30, 2017 Year Ended   Dec. 31, 2016Borrowing limit $2,750 $2,750Amount outstanding at period end 784 392Average amount outstanding 778 485Maximum amount outstanding 1,247 1,183Weighted average interest rate, computed on a daily basis 1.28% 0.74%Weighted average interest rate at period end 1.49 0.95Letters of Credit   Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries use letters of credit, generally with terms of one year, to provide financial guarantees for certain operating obligations.  At June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, there were $14 million and $19 million, respectively, of letters of credit outstanding under the credit facilities.  The contract amounts of these letters of credit approximate their fair value and are subject to fees.Credit Facilities   In order to use their commercial paper programs to fulfill short-term funding needs, Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries must have revolving credit facilities in place at least equal to the amount of their respective commercial paper borrowing limits and cannot issue commercial paper in an aggregate amount exceeding available capacity under these credit facilities.  The lines of credit provide short-term financing in the form of notes payable to banks, letters of credit and back-up support for commercial paper borrowings.At June 30, 2017, Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries had the following committed credit facilities available:(a) These credit facilities expire in June 2021.(b) Includes outstanding commercial paper and letters of credit.All credit facility bank borrowings, outstanding letters of credit and outstanding commercial paper reduce the available capacity under the respective credit facilities.  Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries had no direct advances on the credit facilities outstanding at June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016.Long-Term BorrowingsPSCo issued $400 million of 3.80 percent first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2047.19Table of Contents8.Fair Value of Financial Assets and LiabilitiesFair Value MeasurementsThe accounting guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures provides a single definition of fair value and requires certain disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value.  A hierarchical framework for disclosing the observability of the inputs utilized in measuring assets and liabilities at fair value is established by this guidance.  The three levels in the hierarchy are as follows:Level 1   Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.  The types of assets and liabilities included in Level 1 are highly liquid and actively traded instruments with quoted prices.Level 2   Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets, but are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date.  The types of assets and liabilities included in Level 2 are typically either comparable to actively traded securities or contracts, or priced with models using highly observable inputs.Level 3   Significant inputs to pricing have little or no observability as of the reporting date.  The types of assets and liabilities included in Level 3 are those valued with models requiring significant management judgment or estimation.Specific valuation methods include the following:Cash equivalents   The fair values of cash equivalents are generally based on cost plus accrued interest; money market funds are measured using quoted net asset value (NAV).Investments in equity securities and other funds   Equity securities are valued using quoted prices in active markets.  The fair values for commingled funds are measured using NAVs, which take into consideration the value of underlying fund investments, as well as the other accrued assets and liabilities of a fund, in order to determine a per-share market value.  The investments in commingled funds may be redeemed for NAV with proper notice.  Proper notice varies by fund and can range from daily with one or two days notice to annually with 90 days notice.  Private equity investments require approval of the fund for any unscheduled redemption, and such redemptions may be approved or denied by the fund at its sole discretion.  Unscheduled distributions from real estate investments may be redeemed with proper notice, which is typically quarterly with 45-90 days notice; however, withdrawals from real estate investments may be delayed or discounted as a result of fund illiquidity.  Investments in debt securities   Fair values for debt securities are determined by a third party pricing service using recent trades and observable spreads from benchmark interest rates for similar securities.Interest rate derivatives   The fair values of interest rate derivatives are based on broker quotes that utilize current market interest rate forecasts.Commodity derivatives   The methods used to measure the fair value of commodity derivative forwards and options utilize forward prices and volatilities, as well as pricing adjustments for specific delivery locations, and are generally assigned a Level 2 classification.  When contractual settlements extend to periods beyond those readily observable on active exchanges or quoted by brokers, the significance of the use of less observable forecasts of long-term forward prices and volatilities on a valuation is evaluated, and may result in Level 3 classification.Electric commodity derivatives held by NSP-Minnesota and SPS include transmission congestion instruments, generally referred to as financial transmission rights (FTRs).  FTRs purchased from a RTO are financial instruments that entitle or obligate the holder to monthly revenues or charges based on transmission congestion across a given transmission path.  The value of an FTR is derived from, and designed to offset, the cost of transmission congestion.  In addition to overall transmission load, congestion is also influenced by the operating schedules of power plants and the consumption of electricity pertinent to a given transmission path.  Unplanned plant outages, scheduled plant maintenance, changes in the relative costs of fuels used in generation, weather and overall changes in demand for electricity can each impact the operating schedules of the power plants on the transmission grid and the value of an FTR.  The valuation process for FTRs utilizes complex iterative modeling to predict the impacts of forecasted changes in these drivers of transmission system congestion on the historical pricing of FTR purchases.20Table of ContentsIf forecasted costs of electric transmission congestion increase or decrease for a given FTR path, the value of that particular FTR instrument will likewise increase or decrease.  Fair value measurements for FTRs have been assigned a Level 3 given the limited observability of management s forecasts for several of the inputs to this complex valuation model.  Non-trading monthly FTR settlements are included in fuel and purchased energy cost recovery mechanisms as applicable in each jurisdiction, and therefore changes in the fair value of the yet to be settled portions of most FTRs are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability.  Given this regulatory treatment and the limited magnitude of FTRs, the numerous unobservable quantitative inputs to the complex model used for valuation of FTRs are insignificant to the consolidated financial statements of Xcel Energy.Non-Derivative Instruments Fair Value MeasurementsNuclear Decommissioning FundThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires NSP-Minnesota to maintain a portfolio of investments to fund the costs of decommissioning its nuclear generating plants.  Together with all accumulated earnings or losses, the assets of the nuclear decommissioning fund are legally restricted for the decommissioning the Monticello and PI nuclear generating plants.  The fund contains cash equivalents, debt securities, equity securities and other investments   all classified as available-for-sale.  NSP-Minnesota plans to reinvest matured securities until decommissioning begins.  NSP-Minnesota uses the MPUC approved asset allocation for the escrow and investment targets by asset class for both the escrow and qualified trust.NSP-Minnesota recognizes the costs of funding the decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants over the lives of the plants, assuming rate recovery of all costs.  Given the purpose and legal restrictions on the use of nuclear decommissioning fund assets, realized and unrealized gains on fund investments over the life of the fund are deferred as an offset of NSP-Minnesota s regulatory asset for nuclear decommissioning costs.  Consequently, any realized and unrealized gains and losses on securities in the nuclear decommissioning fund, including any other-than-temporary impairments, are deferred as a component of the regulatory asset for nuclear decommissioning.Unrealized gains for the nuclear decommissioning fund were $462.3 million and $378.6 million at June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, respectively, and unrealized losses and amounts recorded as other-than-temporary impairments were $34.2 million and $46.9 million at June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, respectively.The following tables present the cost and fair value of Xcel Energy s non-derivative instruments with recurring fair value measurements in the nuclear decommissioning fund at June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016:(a) Reported in nuclear decommissioning fund and other investments on the consolidated balance sheet, which also includes $133.2 million of equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and $111.4 million of rabbi trust assets and miscellaneous investments.(b) Due to limited availability of published pricing and a lack of immediate redeemability, certain fund investments measured at NAV are not required to be categorized within the fair value hierarchy.21Table of Contents(a) Reported in nuclear decommissioning fund and other investments on the consolidated balance sheet, which also includes $132.8 million of equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and $98.3 million of rabbi trust assets and miscellaneous investments.(b) Due to limited availability of published pricing and a lack of immediate redeemability, certain fund investments measured at NAV are not required to be categorized within the fair value hierarchy.For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 there were no Level 3 nuclear decommissioning fund investments and no transfers of amounts between levels.The following table summarizes the final contractual maturity dates of the debt securities in the nuclear decommissioning fund, by asset class, at June 30, 2017:Rabbi TrustsIn June 2016, Xcel Energy established rabbi trusts to provide partial funding for future distributions of its supplemental executive retirement plan and deferred compensation plan. The following tables present the cost and fair value of the assets held in rabbi trusts at June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016:22Table of Contents(a) Reported in nuclear decommissioning fund and other investments on the consolidated balance sheet.Derivative Instruments Fair Value MeasurementsXcel Energy enters into derivative instruments, including forward contracts, futures, swaps and options, for trading purposes and to manage risk in connection with changes in interest rates, utility commodity prices and vehicle fuel prices.Interest Rate Derivatives   Xcel Energy enters into various instruments that effectively fix the interest payments on certain floating rate debt obligations or effectively fix the yield or price on a specified benchmark interest rate for an anticipated debt issuance for a specific period.  These derivative instruments are generally designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes.At June 30, 2017, accumulated other comprehensive losses related to interest rate derivatives included $3.0 million of net losses expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next 12 months as the related hedged interest rate transactions impact earnings, including forecasted amounts for unsettled hedges, as applicable.Wholesale and Commodity Trading Risk   Xcel Energy Inc. s utility subsidiaries conduct various wholesale and commodity trading activities, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, energy-related instruments and natural gas-related instruments, including derivatives.  Xcel Energy s risk management policy allows management to conduct these activities within guidelines and limitations as approved by its risk management committee, which is made up of management personnel not directly involved in the activities governed by this policy.Commodity Derivatives   Xcel Energy enters into derivative instruments to manage variability of future cash flows from changes in commodity prices in its electric and natural gas operations, as well as for trading purposes.  This could include the purchase or sale of energy or energy-related products, natural gas to generate electric energy, natural gas for resale, FTRs, vehicle fuel and weather derivatives.At June 30, 2017, Xcel Energy had various vehicle fuel contracts designated as cash flow hedges extending through December 2018.  Xcel Energy enters into derivative instruments that mitigate commodity price risk on behalf of electric and natural gas customers, but may not be designated as qualifying hedging transactions.  Changes in the fair value of non-trading commodity derivative instruments are recorded in other comprehensive income or deferred as a regulatory asset or liability.  The classification as a regulatory asset or liability is based on commission approved regulatory recovery mechanisms.  Xcel Energy recorded immaterial amounts to income related to the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016.At June 30, 2017, net gains related to commodity derivative cash flow hedges recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive losses included immaterial amounts expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next 12 months as the hedged transactions occur.  Additionally, Xcel Energy enters into commodity derivative instruments for trading purposes not directly related to commodity price risks associated with serving its electric and natural gas customers.  Changes in the fair value of these commodity derivatives are recorded in electric operating revenues, net of amounts credited to customers under margin-sharing mechanisms.23Table of ContentsThe following table details the gross notional amounts of commodity forwards, options and FTRs at June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016:(a) Amounts are not reflective of net positions in the underlying commodities.(b) Notional amounts for options are included on a gross basis, but are weighted for the probability of exercise.The following tables detail the impact of derivative activity during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, on accumulated other comprehensive loss, regulatory assets and liabilities, and income:  Three Months Ended June 30, 2017   Pre-Tax Fair Value Gains (Losses) Recognized During the Period in: Pre-Tax (Gains) Losses Reclassified into Income During the Period from: Pre-Tax Gains RecognizedDuring the Period in Income (Thousands of Dollars) Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory(Assets) and Liabilities Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory Assets and (Liabilities)  Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges           Interest rate $  $  $1,319(a) $  $  Vehicle fuel and other commodity 43   (5)(b)     Total $43 $  $1,314 $  $  Other derivative instruments           Commodity trading $  $  $  $  $5,785(c) Electric commodity   (1,299)   (2,315)(d)   Natural gas commodity   (1,685)     Total $  $(2,984) $  $(2,315) $5,785                           Six Months Ended June 30, 2017   Pre-Tax Fair Value Gains (Losses) Recognized During the Period in: Pre-Tax (Gains) Losses Reclassified into Income During the Period from: Pre-Tax Gains (Losses) RecognizedDuring the Period in Income (Thousands of Dollars) Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory(Assets) and Liabilities Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory Assets and (Liabilities)  Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges           Interest rate $  $  $2,678(a) $  $  Vehicle fuel and other commodity 43   (5)(b)     Total $43 $  $2,673 $  $  Other derivative instruments           Commodity trading $  $  $  $  $6,786(c) Electric commodity   (505)   (6,313)(d)   Natural gas commodity   (7,846)   1,075(e) (4,070)(e) Total $  $(8,351) $  $(5,238) $2,716 24Table of Contents              Three Months Ended June 30, 2016   Pre-Tax Fair Value Gains (Losses) Recognized During the Period in: Pre-Tax Losses Reclassified into Income During the Period from: Pre-Tax Gains RecognizedDuring the Period in Income (Thousands of Dollars) Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory(Assets) and Liabilities Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory Assets and (Liabilities)  Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges           Interest rate $  $  $1,483(a) $  $  Vehicle fuel and other commodity 19   47(b)     Total $19 $  $1,530 $  $  Other derivative instruments           Commodity trading $  $  $  $  $481(c) Electric commodity   (705)   16,642(d)   Natural gas commodity   6,063    25(e) Total $  $5,358 $  $16,642 $506   Six Months Ended June 30, 2016   Pre-Tax Fair Value Gains (Losses) Recognized During the Period in: Pre-Tax Losses Reclassified into Income During the Period from: Pre-Tax Gains (Losses) RecognizedDuring the Period in Income (Thousands of Dollars) Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory(Assets) and Liabilities Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss Regulatory Assets and (Liabilities)  Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges           Interest rate $  $  $2,968(a) $  $  Vehicle fuel and other commodity 13   104(b)     Total $13 $  $3,072 $  $  Other derivative instruments                       Commodity trading $  $  $  $  $1,490(c) Electric commodity   (970)   27,533(d)   Natural gas commodity   3,361   11,666(e) (4,999)(e) Total $  $2,391 $  $39,199 $(3,509) (a) Amounts are recorded to interest charges.(b) Amounts are recorded to operating and maintenance (O&M) expenses.(c) Amounts are recorded to electric operating revenues.  Portions of these gains and losses are subject to sharing with electric customers through margin-sharing mechanisms and deducted from gross revenue, as appropriate.(d) Amounts are recorded to electric fuel and purchased power.  These derivative settlement gain and loss amounts are shared with electric customers through fuel and purchased energy cost-recovery mechanisms, and reclassified out of income as regulatory assets or liabilities, as appropriate.(e) Certain derivatives are utilized to mitigate natural gas price risk for electric generation and are recorded to electric fuel and purchased power, subject to cost-recovery mechanisms and reclassified to a regulatory asset, as appropriate.  Amounts for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 included no settlement gains or losses and $0.9 million of settlement gains, respectively.  Amounts for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 included an immaterial amount of settlement losses.  The remaining derivative settlement gains and losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 relate to natural gas operations and are recorded to cost of natural gas sold and transported.  These gains and losses are subject to cost-recovery mechanisms and reclassified out of income to a regulatory asset or liability, as appropriate.Xcel Energy had no derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016.  Therefore, no gains or losses from fair value hedges or related hedged transactions were recognized for these periods.Consideration of Credit Risk and Concentrations   Xcel Energy continuously monitors the creditworthiness of the counterparties to its interest rate derivatives and commodity derivative contracts prior to settlement, and assesses each counterparty s ability to perform on the transactions set forth in the contracts.  Given this assessment, as well as an assessment of the impact of Xcel Energy s own credit risk when determining the fair value of derivative liabilities, the impact of credit risk was immaterial to the fair value of unsettled commodity derivatives presented in the consolidated balance sheets.Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries employ additional credit risk control mechanisms when appropriate, such as letters of credit, parental guarantees, standardized master netting agreements and termination provisions that allow for offsetting of positive and negative exposures.  Credit exposure is monitored and, when necessary, the activity with a specific counterparty is limited until credit enhancement is provided.25Table of ContentsXcel Energy s utility subsidiaries  most significant concentrations of credit risk with particular entities or industries are contracts with counterparties to their wholesale, trading and non-trading commodity activities.  At June 30, 2017, two of Xcel Energy s 10 most significant counterparties for these activities, comprising $28.1 million or 12 percent of this credit exposure, had investment grade credit ratings from Standard & Poor s, Moody s or Fitch Ratings.  Eight of the 10 most significant counterparties, comprising $75.7 million or 32 percent of this credit exposure, were not rated by these external agencies, but based on Xcel Energy s internal analysis, had credit quality consistent with investment grade.  All ten of these significant counterparties are municipal or cooperative electric entities or other utilities.Credit Related Contingent Features   Contract provisions for derivative instruments that the utility subsidiaries enter, including those accounted for as normal purchase-normal sale contracts and therefore not reflected on the balance sheet, may require the posting of collateral or settlement of the contracts for various reasons, including if the applicable utility subsidiary is unable to maintain its credit ratings.  At June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, there were no derivative instruments in a liability position with underlying contract provisions that required the posting of collateral or settlement of applicable outstanding contracts if the credit ratings of Xcel Energy Inc. s utility subsidiaries were downgraded below investment grade. Certain derivative instruments are also subject to contract provisions that contain adequate assurance clauses.  These provisions allow counterparties to seek performance assurance, including cash collateral, in the event that a given utility subsidiary s ability to fulfill its contractual obligations is reasonably expected to be impaired.  Xcel Energy had no collateral posted related to adequate assurance clauses in derivative contracts as of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016.Recurring Fair Value Measurements   The following table presents for each of the fair value hierarchy levels, Xcel Energy s derivative assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2017:26Table of Contents(a) During 2006, Xcel Energy qualified these contracts under the normal purchase exception.  Based on this qualification, the contracts are no longer adjusted to fair value and the previous carrying value of these contracts will be amortized over the remaining contract lives along with the offsetting regulatory assets and liabilities.(b) Xcel Energy nets derivative instruments and related collateral in its consolidated balance sheet when supported by a legally enforceable master netting agreement, and all derivative instruments and related collateral amounts were subject to master netting agreements at June 30, 2017.  At June 30, 2017, derivative assets and liabilities include no obligations to return cash collateral and the rights to reclaim cash collateral of $3.5 million.  The counterparty netting amounts presented exclude settlement receivables and payables and non-derivative amounts that may be subject to the same master netting agreements.The following table presents for each of the fair value hierarchy levels, Xcel Energy s derivative assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at Dec. 31, 2016:27Table of Contents(a) During 2006, Xcel Energy qualified these contracts under the normal purchase exception.  Based on this qualification, the contracts are no longer adjusted to fair value and the previous carrying value of these contracts will be amortized over the remaining contract lives along with the offsetting regulatory assets and liabilities.(b) Xcel Energy nets derivative instruments and related collateral in its consolidated balance sheet when supported by a legally enforceable master netting agreement, and all derivative instruments and related collateral amounts were subject to master netting agreements at Dec. 31, 2016.  At Dec. 31, 2016, derivative assets and liabilities include no obligations to return cash collateral and rights to reclaim cash collateral of $3.7 million.  The counterparty netting amounts presented exclude settlement receivables and payables and non-derivative amounts that may be subject to the same master netting agreements.The following table presents the changes in Level 3 commodity derivatives for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016:(a) These amounts relate to commodity derivatives held at the end of the period.Xcel Energy recognizes transfers between levels as of the beginning of each period.  There were no transfers of amounts between levels for derivative instruments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. 28Table of ContentsFair Value of Long-Term DebtAs of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, other financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not equal fair value were as follows:The fair value of Xcel Energy s long-term debt is estimated based on recent trades and observable spreads from benchmark interest rates for similar securities.  The fair value estimates are based on information available to management as of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, and given the observability of the inputs to these estimates, the fair values presented for long-term debt have been assigned a Level 2.9.Other Income, NetOther income, net consisted of the following:10.Segment InformationThe regulated electric utility operating results of NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS, as well as the regulated natural gas utility operating results of NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo are each separately and regularly reviewed by Xcel Energy s chief operating decision maker.  Xcel Energy evaluates performance by each utility subsidiary based on profit or loss generated from the product or service provided.  These segments are managed separately because the revenue streams are dependent upon regulated rate recovery, which is separately determined for each segment.Xcel Energy has the following reportable segments: regulated electric utility, regulated natural gas utility and all other. Xcel Energy s regulated electric utility segment generates, transmits and distributes electricity primarily in portions of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, North Dakota, South Dakota, Colorado, Texas and New Mexico.  In addition, this segment includes sales for resale and provides wholesale transmission service to various entities in the United States.  Regulated electric utility also includes commodity trading operations. Xcel Energy s regulated natural gas utility segment transports, stores and distributes natural gas primarily in portions of Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, Michigan and Colorado. Revenues from operating segments not included above are below the necessary quantitative thresholds and are therefore included in the all other category.  Those primarily include steam revenue, appliance repair services, nonutility real estate activities, revenues associated with processing solid waste into refuse-derived fuel and investments in rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits.Xcel Energy had equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries of $133.2 million and $132.8 million as of June 30, 2017 and Dec. 31, 2016, respectively, included in the regulated natural gas utility segment.Asset and capital expenditure information is not provided for Xcel Energy s reportable segments because as an integrated electric and natural gas utility, Xcel Energy operates significant assets that are not dedicated to a specific business segment, and reporting assets and capital expenditures by business segment would require arbitrary and potentially misleading allocations which may not necessarily reflect the assets that would be required for the operation of the business segments on a stand-alone basis.To report income from operations for regulated electric and regulated natural gas utility segments, the majority of costs are directly assigned to each segment.  However, some costs, such as common depreciation, common O&M expenses and interest expense are allocated based on cost causation allocators.  A general allocator is used for certain general and administrative expenses, including office supplies, rent, property insurance and general advertising.29Table of Contents11.Earnings Per ShareBasic earnings per share (EPS) was computed by dividing the earnings available to Xcel Energy Inc. s common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted EPS was computed by dividing the earnings available to Xcel Energy Inc. s common shareholders by the diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other agreements to issue common stock (i.e., common stock equivalents) were settled.  The weighted average number of potentially dilutive shares outstanding used to calculate Xcel Energy Inc. s diluted EPS is calculated using the treasury stock method.Common Stock Equivalents   Xcel Energy Inc. currently has common stock equivalents related to certain equity awards in share-based compensation arrangements.Common stock equivalents causing dilutive impact to EPS include commitments to issue common stock related to time based equity compensation awards. Stock equivalent units granted to Xcel Energy Inc. s Board of Directors are included in common shares outstanding upon grant date as there is no further service, performance or market condition associated with these awards.  Restricted stock, granted to settle amounts due to certain employees under the Xcel Energy Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Award Plan, is included in common shares outstanding when granted.30Table of ContentsShare-based compensation arrangements for which there is currently no dilutive impact to EPS include the following: Equity awards subject to a performance condition; included in common shares outstanding when all necessary conditions for settlement have been satisfied by the end of the reporting period. Liability awards subject to a performance condition; any portions settled in shares are included in common shares outstanding upon settlement.The dilutive impact of common stock equivalents affecting EPS was as follows:12.Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement BenefitsComponents of Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)31Table of ContentsIn January 2017, contributions of $150.0 million were made across four of Xcel Energy s pension plans.  Xcel Energy does not expect additional pension contributions during 2017.  13.Other Comprehensive IncomeChanges in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:  Three Months Ended June 30, 2017(Thousands of Dollars) Gains and Losseson Cash Flow Hedges Unrealized Gains and Losseson Marketable Securities Defined Benefit Pension andPostretirement Items TotalAccumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at April 1 $(50,326) $110 $(58,365) $(108,581)Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 26 1   27Losses reclassified from net accumulated other comprehensive loss 803   956 1,759Net current period other comprehensive income  829 1 956 1,786Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at June 30 $(49,497) $111 $(57,409) $(106,795)  Three Months Ended June 30, 2016(Thousands of Dollars) Gains and Losseson Cash Flow Hedges Unrealized Gains and Losseson Marketable Securities Defined Benefit Pension andPostretirement Items TotalAccumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at April 1 $(53,928) $110 $(54,790) $(108,608)Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 12     12Losses reclassified from net accumulated other comprehensive loss 936   865 1,801Net current period other comprehensive income  948   865 1,813Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at June 30 $(52,980) $110 $(53,925) $(106,795)  Six Months Ended June 30, 2017(Thousands of Dollars) Gains and Losseson Cash Flow Hedges Unrealized Gains on Marketable Securities Defined Benefit Pension andPostretirement Items TotalAccumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at Jan. 1 $(51,151) $110 $(59,313) $(110,354)Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 26 1   27Losses reclassified from net accumulated other comprehensive loss 1,628   1,904 3,532Net current period other comprehensive income 1,654 1 1,904 3,559Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at June 30 $(49,497) $111 $(57,409) $(106,795)32Table of Contents  Six Months Ended June 30, 2016(Thousands of Dollars) Gains and Losseson Cash Flow Hedges Unrealized Gains on Marketable Securities Defined Benefit Pension andPostretirement Items TotalAccumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at Jan. 1 $(54,862) $110 $(55,001) $(109,753)Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications 8   (653) (645)Losses reclassified from net accumulated other comprehensive loss 1,874   1,729 3,603Net current period other comprehensive income 1,882   1,076 2,958Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at June 30 $(52,980) $110 $(53,925) $(106,795)Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss for the  three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:(Thousands of Dollars) Amounts Reclassified from AccumulatedOther Comprehensive Loss   Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 Losses (gains) on cash flow hedges:     Interest rate derivatives $1,319(a) $1,483(a) Vehicle fuel derivatives (5)(b) 47(b) Total, pre-tax 1,314 1,530 Tax benefit (511) (594) Total, net of tax 803 936 Defined benefit pension and postretirement losses:     Amortization of net loss 1,621(c) 1,478(c) Prior service credit (57)(c) (64)(c) Total, pre-tax 1,564 1,414 Tax benefit (608) (549) Total, net of tax 956 865 Total amounts reclassified, net of tax $1,759 $1,801   Amounts Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (Thousands of Dollars) Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 Losses (gains) on cash flow hedges:     Interest rate derivatives $2,678(a) $2,968(a) Vehicle fuel derivatives (5)(b) 104(b) Total, pre-tax 2,673 3,072 Tax benefit (1,045) (1,198) Total, net of tax 1,628 1,874 Defined benefit pension and postretirement losses:     Amortization of net loss 3,244(c) 2,956(c) Prior service credit (117)(c) (128)(c) Total, pre-tax 3,127 2,828 Tax benefit (1,223) (1,099) Total, net of tax 1,904 1,729 Total amounts reclassified, net of tax $3,532 $3,603 (a) Included in interest charges.(b) Included in O&M expenses.(c) Included in the computation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs.  See Note 12 for details regarding these benefit plans.33Table of ContentsItem 2   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following discussion and analysis by management focuses on those factors that had a material effect on Xcel Energy s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods presented, or are expected to have a material impact in the future.  It should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements.  Due to the seasonality of Xcel Energy s operating results, quarterly financial results are not an appropriate base from which to project annual results.Forward-Looking StatementsExcept for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters discussed herein, are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Such forward-looking statements, including our 2017 earnings per share guidance and assumptions, are intended to be identified in this document by the words  anticipate,   believe,   estimate,   expect,   intend,   may,   objective,   outlook,   plan,   project,   possible,   potential,   should  and similar expressions.  Actual results may vary materially.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.  The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in other securities filings (including Xcel Energy s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2016, and subsequent securities filings, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: general economic conditions, including inflation rates, monetary fluctuations and their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Xcel Energy) to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; including the risk of a slow down in the U.S. economy or delay in growth, recovery, trade, fiscal, taxation and environmental policies in areas where Xcel Energy has a financial interest; customer business conditions; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; cyber security threats and data security breaches; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership or impose environmental compliance conditions; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and natural gas markets; costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; financial or regulatory accounting policies imposed by regulatory bodies; outcomes of regulatory proceedings; availability or cost of capital; and employee work force factors.Financial ReviewThe only common equity securities that are publicly traded are common shares of Xcel Energy Inc.  The diluted earnings and EPS of each subsidiary discussed below do not represent a direct legal interest in the assets and liabilities allocated to such subsidiary but rather represent a direct interest in our assets and liabilities as a whole.  Ongoing diluted EPS for Xcel Energy and by subsidiary is a financial measure not recognized under GAAP.  Ongoing diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the net income or loss attributable to the controlling interest of each subsidiary, adjusted for certain items, by the weighted average fully diluted Xcel Energy Inc. common shares outstanding for the period.  We use this non-GAAP financial measure to evaluate and provide details of Xcel Energy s core earnings and underlying performance.  We believe this measurement is useful to investors in facilitating period over period comparisons and evaluating or projecting financial results.  This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an alternative to measures calculated and reported in accordance with GAAP.34Table of ContentsResults of OperationsThe following table summarizes diluted EPS for Xcel Energy:(a) Amounts may not add due to rounding.Earnings Adjusted for Certain Items (Ongoing Earnings) Ongoing earnings reflect adjustments to GAAP earnings for certain items.  Xcel Energy s management believes that ongoing earnings provide a meaningful comparison of earnings results and is representative of Xcel Energy s fundamental core earnings power.  Xcel Energy s management uses ongoing earnings internally for financial planning and analysis, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors, in determining whether performance targets are met for performance-based compensation, and when communicating its earnings outlook to analysts and investors. Summary of Earnings Xcel Energy   Xcel Energy s earnings increased $0.06 per share for the second quarter of 2017 and year-to-date.  Earnings for the second quarter of 2017 increased due to higher electric and natural gas margins to recover infrastructure investments, along with a lower effective tax rate and lower operating and maintenance (O&M) expenses, partially offset by higher depreciation.PSCo   Earnings increased $0.03 per share for the second quarter of 2017 and $0.02 per share year-to-date.  The year-to-date increase in earnings was driven by higher electric and natural gas margins and lower O&M expenses, partially offset by increased depreciation.NSP-Minnesota   Earnings increased $0.02 per share for the second quarter of 2017 and year-to-date.  The year-to-date increase in earnings was due to higher electric margins driven by the rate case in Minnesota, as well as increased natural gas margins, non-fuel riders and lower O&M expenses, partially offset by increased depreciation.SPS   Earnings increased $0.01 per share for the second quarter of 2017 and year-to-date.  The year-to-date increase in earnings was due to the positive impact of rate increases in Texas and New Mexico, which was partially offset by increased depreciation and timing of O&M expenses.NSP-Wisconsin   Earnings increased $0.01 per share for the second quarter of 2017 and year-to-date.  The year-to-date increase in earnings was driven by higher electric margins primarily due to rate increases, which were partially offset by additional depreciation.35Table of ContentsChanges in Diluted EPS The following table summarizes significant components contributing to the changes in 2017 EPS compared with the same period in 2016:(a)  Lower ETR includes the impact of $4.8 million and $8.8 million of wind production tax credits (PTCs) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively, which are largely flowed back to customers through electric margin.Statement of Income AnalysisThe following discussion summarizes the items that affected the individual revenue and expense items reported in the consolidated statements of income.Estimated Impact of Temperature Changes on Regulated Earnings   Unusually hot summers or cold winters increase electric and natural gas sales, while mild weather reduces electric and natural gas sales.  The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the number of customers, temperature variances and the amount of natural gas or electricity the average customer historically uses per degree of temperature.  Accordingly, deviations in weather from normal levels can affect Xcel Energy s financial performance.Degree-day or Temperature-Humidity Index (THI) data is used to estimate amounts of energy required to maintain comfortable indoor temperature levels based on each day s average temperature and humidity.  Heating degree-days (HDD) is the measure of the variation in the weather based on the extent to which the average daily temperature falls below 65  Fahrenheit.  Cooling degree-days (CDD) is the measure of the variation in the weather based on the extent to which the average daily temperature rises above 65  Fahrenheit.  Each degree of temperature above 65  Fahrenheit is counted as one CDD, and each degree of temperature below 65  Fahrenheit is counted as one HDD.  In Xcel Energy s more humid service territories, a THI is used in place of CDD, which adds a humidity factor to CDD.  HDD, CDD and THI are most likely to impact the usage of Xcel Energy s residential and commercial customers.  Industrial customers are less sensitive to weather.Normal weather conditions are defined as either the 20-year or 30-year average of actual historical weather conditions.  The historical period of time used in the calculation of normal weather differs by jurisdiction, based on regulatory practice.  To calculate the impact of weather on demand, a demand factor is applied to the weather impact on sales as defined above to derive the amount of demand associated with the weather impact.The percentage increase (decrease) in normal and actual HDD, CDD and THI is provided in the following table:36Table of ContentsWeather   The following table summarizes the estimated impact of temperature variations on EPS compared with sales under normal weather conditions:Sales Growth (Decline)   The following tables summarize Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries  sales growth (decline) for actual and weather-normalized sales in 2017 compared to the same period in 2016:  Three Months Ended June 30  PSCo NSP-Minnesota SPS NSP-Wisconsin Xcel EnergyActual          Electric residential (a) (1.5)% (1.4)% 6.4% 0.7% (0.3)%Electric commercial and industrial 2.6 (0.9) 2.5 3.4 1.3Total retail electric sales 1.4 (1.1) 3.1 2.7 0.9Firm natural gas sales (8.5) 3.6 N/A 4.2 (4.7)  Three Months Ended June 30  PSCo NSP-Minnesota SPS NSP-Wisconsin Xcel EnergyWeather-normalized          Electric residential (a) (0.3)% 0.8 % 0.8% 2.3% 0.5 %Electric commercial and industrial 3.0 (0.4) 2.3 3.7 1.5Total retail electric sales 2.0 (0.1) 1.9 3.4 1.3Firm natural gas sales (3.9) 4.6 N/A 3.3 (1.2)  Six Months Ended June 30  PSCo NSP-Minnesota SPS NSP-Wisconsin Xcel EnergyActual          Electric residential (a) (1.6)% (1.2)% (2.3)% (0.5)% (1.5)%Electric commercial and industrial 0.5 (1.0) 1.6 1.5 0.3Total retail electric sales (0.1) (1.1) 0.8 0.8 (0.2)Firm natural gas sales (6.8) 4.0 N/A 3.7 (2.9)  Six Months Ended June 30  PSCo NSP-Minnesota SPS NSP-Wisconsin Xcel EnergyWeather-normalized          Electric residential (a) (0.6)% 0.1 % (1.5)% 0.9% (0.3)%Electric commercial and industrial 0.7 (0.5) 1.4 1.6 0.5Total retail electric sales 0.3 (0.4) 0.7 1.3 0.2Firm natural gas sales (1.0) 4.2 N/A 3.3 0.937Table of Contents             Six Months Ended June 30 (Excluding Leap Day) (b)  PSCo NSP-Minnesota SPS NSP-Wisconsin Xcel EnergyWeather-normalized - adjusted for     leap day          Electric residential (a)   % 0.7% (0.9)% 1.5% 0.3%Electric commercial and industrial 1.2   1.9 2.1 1.0Total retail electric sales 0.9 0.2 1.2 1.9 0.8Firm natural gas sales (0.2) 5.1 N/A 4.2 1.7(a) Extreme weather variations and additional factors such as windchill and cloud cover may not be reflected in weather-normalized and actual growth estimates.(b)  The estimated impact of the 2016 leap day is excluded to present a more comparable year-over-year presentation.  The estimated impact of the additional day of sales in 2016 was approximately 50-60 basis points for retail electric and 80-90 basis points for firm natural gas for the six months ended.Weather-normalized Electric Sales Growth (Decline)   Year-To-Date Excluding Leap Day PSCo s flat residential sales reflect an increased number of customers and lower use per customer. The commercial and industrial (C&I) growth was mainly due to an increase in C&I customers and higher use per customer for both small and large C&I customers. The growth was primarily led by large customers that support the mining, oil and gas industries.  NSP-Minnesota s residential sales growth reflects customer additions, partially offset by lower use per customer. Flat C&I sales resulted from lower sales to small customers, offset by customer growth. Increased sales to large customers in manufacturing and energy industries offset smaller declines in services and air transportation. SPS  residential fell largely due to lower use per customer. C&I sales growth reflects higher use per customer driven by the oil and natural gas industry in the Permian Basin. NSP-Wisconsin s residential sales increase was primarily attributable to higher use per customer and customer additions. The C&I growth was largely due to higher use per customer and an increase in small customers in the sand mining industry.Weather-normalized Natural Gas Sales Growth (Decline) - Year-To-Date Excluding Leap Day Across most natural gas service territories, higher natural gas sales reflect an increase in the number of customers, partially offset by a decline in customer use. Electric Revenues and MarginElectric revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses are largely impacted by the fluctuation in the price of natural gas, coal and uranium used in the generation of electricity, but as a result of the design of fuel recovery mechanisms to recover current expenses, these price fluctuations have minimal impact on electric margin.  The following table details the electric revenues and margin:38Table of ContentsThe following tables summarize the components of the changes in electric revenues and electric margin:Electric Revenues(Millions of Dollars) Three Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016 Six Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016Retail rate increases (Texas, Minnesota, New Mexico and Wisconsin) $34 $75Fuel and purchased power cost recovery 41 56Trading 14 42Non-fuel riders 9 20Higher conservation and DSM revenues (offset by higher expenses) 7 14Wholesale transmission revenue 1 12Retail sales growth, excluding weather impact  8 9Decoupling (weather portion - Minnesota) 5 7Estimated impact of weather (6) (13)Other, net 1 6Total increase in electric revenues $114 $228Electric Margin(Millions of Dollars) Three Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016 Six Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016Retail rate increases (Texas, Minnesota, New Mexico and Wisconsin) $34 $75Non-fuel riders 9 20Higher conservation and DSM revenues (offset by higher expenses) 7 14Retail sales growth, excluding weather impact 8 9Decoupling (weather portion - Minnesota) 5 7Wholesale transmission revenue, net of costs (6) (13)Estimated impact of weather (6) (13)Other, net    3Total increase in electric margin $51 $102Natural Gas Revenues and MarginTotal natural gas expense tends to vary with changing sales requirements and the cost of natural gas purchases.  However, due to the design of purchased natural gas cost recovery mechanisms for sales to retail customers, fluctuations in the cost of natural gas has minimal impact on natural gas margin.  The following table details natural gas revenues and margin:39Table of ContentsThe following tables summarize the components of the changes in natural gas revenues and natural gas margin:Natural Gas Revenues(Millions of Dollars) Three Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016 Six Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016Purchased natural gas adjustment clause recovery $23 $76Infrastructure and integrity riders 5 12Higher conservation and DSM revenues (offset by higher expenses) 1 4Estimated impact of weather (1) (5)Other, net 3 4Total increase in natural gas revenues $31 $91Natural Gas Margin(Millions of Dollars) Three Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016 Six Months Ended June 302017 vs. 2016Infrastructure and integrity riders $5 $12Higher conservation and DSM revenues (offset by higher expenses) 1 4Estimated impact of weather (1) (5)Other, net 2 3Total increase in natural gas margin $7 $14Non-Fuel Operating Expenses and Other ItemsO&M Expenses   O&M expenses decreased $18.8 million, or 3.2 percent, for the second quarter of 2017 and decreased $9.8 million, or 0.8 percent, year-to-date.   The year-to-date decrease is primarily due to the timing of planned maintenance and overhauls at a number of generation facilities, offset by increases in employee benefits expense and the impact of previously deferred 2016 expenses associated with the Texas 2016 electric rate case (approximately $8 million) recognized in 2017 in connection with the settlement, offset by revenue recovery.  Conservation and DSM Expenses   Conservation and demand side management (DSM) expenses increased $8.9 million, or 16.0 percent, for the second quarter of 2017 and increased $19.0 million, or 16.8 percent, year-to-date.  Increases were due to higher recovery rates and additional customer participation in electric conservation programs, mostly in Minnesota.  Conservation and DSM expenses are generally recovered in our major jurisdictions concurrently through riders and base rates.  Timing of recovery may not correspond to the period in which costs were incurred.Depreciation and Amortization   Depreciation and amortization increased $43.2 million, or 13.4 percent, for the second quarter of 2017 and increased $88.4 million, or 13.8 percent, year-to-date.  The increase was primarily due to capital investments and prior year amortization of the excess depreciation reserve in Minnesota.Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC), Equity and Debt   AFUDC increased $2.6 million for the second quarter of 2017 and increased $4.8 million year-to-date.   The increase was primarily due to higher average capital investments, particularly the Rush Creek wind project.Interest Charges   Interest charges increased $1.2 million, or 0.7 percent, for the second quarter of 2017 and increased $10.7 million, or 3.4 percent, year-to-date.   The increase was related to higher debt levels to fund capital investments, partially offset by refinancings at lower interest rates. Income Taxes   Income tax expense decreased $2.0 million for the second quarter of 2017 compared with the same period in 2016. The decrease was primarily due an increase in wind PTCs in 2017, an increase in permanent plant-related adjustments (e.g., AFUDC-equity) in 2017 and a tax expense for a state tax credit valuation allowance in 2016, partially offset by higher pretax earnings in the second quarter of 2017. The ETR was 31.1 percent for the second quarter of 2017 compared with 34.7 percent for the same period in 2016. The lower ETR in 2017 was primarily due to the adjustments referenced above.40Table of ContentsIncome tax expense decreased $14.0 million for the first six months of 2017 compared with the same period in 2016. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily due to an increase in wind PTCs in 2017, an increase in permanent plant-related adjustments (e.g., AFUDC-equity) in 2017 and a tax expense for a state tax credit valuation allowance in 2016, partially offset by higher pretax earnings in the six months ended June 30, 2017. The ETR was 32.0 percent for the first six months of 2017, compared to 34.7 percent for the first six months of 2016.  The lower ETR in 2017 was primarily due to the adjustments referenced above.Public Utility RegulationExcept to the extent noted below, the circumstances set forth in Public Utility Regulation included in Item 1 of Xcel Energy Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 and Public Utility Regulation included in Item 2 of Xcel Energy Inc. sQuarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017, appropriately represent, in all material respects, the current status of public utility regulation and are incorporated herein by reference. Xcel Energy Inc.Wind Development   During the first quarter of 2017, Xcel Energy announced plans to significantly expand its wind capacity by adding 1,550 MW of new wind generation at NSP-Minnesota and 1,230 MW at SPS.  Previously, Xcel Energy received regulatory approval to build a 600 MW wind farm at PSCo.  In July 2017, the MPUC approved NSP-Minnesota s proposal to add 1,550 MW of new wind generation, including ownership of 1,150 MW of wind generation by NSP-Minnesota.  The MPUC approved an aggregate capital cap for the 750 MW of self-build projects, allowing NSP-Minnesota to include in rate base any savings versus a capital cost estimate for the projects.  NSP-Minnesota would not recover capital costs in excess of the cap.The PUCT and NMPRC are expected to rule on SPS  wind projects by the end of the first quarter of 2018.  Key dates in the PUCT procedural schedule are as follows: Intervenor testimony   Oct. 2, 2017; Rebuttal testimony   Oct. 23, 2017; and Key dates in the NMPRC procedural schedule are as follows: Staff and intervenor testimony   Oct. 24, 2017; Rebuttal testimony   Nov. 9, 2017; andIn total, Xcel Energy has proposed adding 3,380 MW of wind capacity by the end of 2020.  Xcel Energy has filed to own and place in rate base 2,750 MW of these wind projects, while 630 MW would be through PPAs.  These wind projects would qualify for 100 percent of the production tax credit and are intended to provide billions of dollars of savings to our customers and substantial environmental benefits.  Projected savings/benefits assume fuel costs and generation mix consistent with those included in various commission approved resource plans and generation need filings.41Table of ContentsThe following table details these wind projects:Project Name Capacity (MW) State Estimated Year of Completion Ownership/PPA Regulatory StatusRush Creek 600 CO 2018 PSCo Approved by CPUCFreeborn  200 MN/IA 2020 NSP-Minnesota Approved by MPUCBlazing Star 1  200 MN 2019 NSP-Minnesota Approved by MPUCBlazing Star 2  200 MN 2020 NSP-Minnesota Approved by MPUCLake Benton 100 MN 2019 NSP-Minnesota Approved by MPUCFoxtail  150 ND 2019 NSP-Minnesota Approved by MPUCCrowned Ridge 300 SD 2019 NSP-Minnesota Approved by MPUCHale 478 TX 2019 SPS Pending PUCT & NMPRC ApprovalSagamore 522 NM 2020 SPS Pending PUCT & NMPRC ApprovalTotal Ownership 2,750                   Crowned Ridge 300 SD 2019 PPA Approved by MPUCClean Energy 1 100 ND 2019 PPA Approved by MPUCBonita 230 TX 2019 PPA Pending PUCT & NMPRC ApprovalTotal PPA 630        Xcel Energy s total capital investment for the proposed wind ownership projects is approximately $4.2 billion for 2017-2020. NSP-MinnesotaPPA Terminations and Amendments   In June and July 2017, NSP-Minnesota filed requests with the MPUC and/or the NDPSC for several initiatives including changes to four PPAs to reduce future costs for customers.  These actions include the following: The termination of a PPA with Benson Power LLC (Benson) for its 55 MW biomass facility in Benson, Minn.  The termination of the Benson PPA requires FERC approval and would result in payments of $95 million to terminate the PPA and acquire the facility, as well as additional expenditures of approximately $26 million to temporarily operate then close the facility. The termination of a PPA with Laurentian Energy Authority I, LLC (Laurentian) for its 35 MW of biomass facilities in Hibbing and Virginia, Minn.  The termination of the Laurentian PPA would result in $108.5 million of contract cancellation payments over six years.  The remaining two requested PPA changes involve a PPA extension for a 34 MW waste-to-energy facility at a price reflective of current market conditions and termination of another 12 MW waste-to-energy PPA.NSP-Minnesota has requested recovery of all costs associated with these changes through the Fuel Clause Adjustment, including a return on NSP-Minnesota s total investment in the Benson transaction over the remaining life of the current PPA through 2028.  If approved, these actions together are intended to provide approximately $653 million in net cost savings to customers over the next 10 years. Nuclear Power OperationsNSP-Minnesota owns two nuclear generating plants: the Monticello plant and the PI plant.  See Note 14 of Xcel Energy Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 for further discussion regarding the nuclear generating plants.  The circumstances set forth in Nuclear Power Operations and Waste Disposal included in Item 1 of Xcel Energy Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 and Nuclear Power Operations included in Item 2 of Xcel Energy Inc. s QuarterlyReport on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017, appropriately represent, in all material respects, the current status of nuclear power operations, and are incorporated herein by reference. 42Table of ContentsNSP-WisconsinNSP-Wisconsin / American Transmission Company, LLC (ATC) - La Crosse to Madison, Wis. Transmission Line   In 2013, NSP-Wisconsin and ATC jointly filed an application with the PSCW for a certificate of public convenience and necessity (CPCN) for a new 345 kilovolt transmission line that would extend from La Crosse, Wis. to Madison, Wis.  NSP-Wisconsin s half of the line will be shared with three co-owners, Dairyland Power Cooperative, WPPI Energy and Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency-Wisconsin.In 2015, the PSCW issued its order approving a CPCN and route for the project.  Two groups have appealed the CPCN order to the La Crosse County Circuit Court (Circuit Court).  In May 2017, the Circuit Court determined that the project was necessary, allowing construction to continue on a seven mile segment near La Crosse, Wis.  The parties have appealed various aspects of the case to the Wisconsin Court of Appeals, which is currently pending.  The CPCN remains in full effect unless one of the parties seeks and receives a stay from the court and posts a bond to cover damages the utilities may incur due to delay.  The 180-mile project is expected to cost approximately $541 million.  NSP-Wisconsin s portion of the investment, which includes AFUDC, is estimated to be approximately $200 million.  Construction on the line began in January 2016, with completion anticipated by late 2018.2016 Electric Fuel Cost Recovery   NSP-Wisconsin s electric fuel costs for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 were lower than authorized in rates and outside the two percent annual tolerance band established in the Wisconsin fuel cost recovery rules, primarily due to lower sales volume and lower purchased power costs coupled with moderate weather.  Under the fuel cost recovery rules, NSP-Wisconsin may retain the amount of over-recovery up to two percent of authorized annual fuel costs, or approximately $3.4 million.  However, NSP-Wisconsin must defer the amount of over-recovery in excess of the two percent annual tolerance band for future refund to customers.  In July 2017, the PSCW required NSP-Wisconsin to provide a refund of $9.5 million to customers, which is expected to start in September 2017. 2017 Electric Fuel Cost Recovery   NSP-Wisconsin s electric fuel costs for the six months ended June 30, 2017 were lower than authorized in rates and outside the two percent annual tolerance band established in the Wisconsin fuel cost recovery rules, primarily due to lower sales volume and lower purchased power costs coupled with moderate weather and generation sales into the MISO market.  Under the fuel cost recovery rules, NSP-Wisconsin may retain the amount of over-recovery up to two percent of authorized annual fuel costs, or approximately $3.7 million.  However, NSP-Wisconsin must defer the amount of over-recovery in excess of the two percent annual tolerance band for future refund to customers.  Accordingly, NSP-Wisconsin recorded a deferral of approximately $3.0 million through June 30, 2017.  The amount of the deferral could increase or decrease based on actual fuel costs incurred for the remainder of the year.  In the first quarter of 2018, NSP-Wisconsin will file a reconciliation of 2017 fuel costs with the PSCW.  The amount of any potential refund is subject to review and approval by the PSCW, which is not expected until mid-2018.PSCoRush Creek Wind Ownership Proposal   In 2016, the CPUC granted PSCo a CPCN to build, own and operate a 600 MW wind generation facility in Colorado at Rush Creek.  The CPCN includes a hard cost-cap of $1.096 billion (including transmission costs) and a capital cost sharing mechanism between customers and PSCo of 82.5 percent to customers and 17.5 percent to PSCo for every $10 million the project comes in below the cost-cap.All major contracts required to complete the project have been executed including the Vestas turbine supply and balance of plant agreements.  Vestas PTC components for safe harboring the facility have been fabricated and are currently being stored at Vestas facilities in Colorado. Construction of roads, collection systems, and foundations began in April 2017.In June 2017, PSCo filed its report required under Colorado rules that require PSCo to consider Best Value Employment Metrics (BVEM) as a factor in selecting contractors for generation projects.  On July 5, 2017, several building trades filed comments arguing that PSCo s Balance of Plant Contractor selection was inappropriate as it did not follow a more detailed and quantitative analysis.  The trade unions argued that the BVEM deficiencies could be remedied through execution of a Project Labor Agreement on the project.  PSCo filed its reply indicating that it satisfied the BVEM rule requirements on July 18, 2017, which was discussed by the CPUC on July 20, 2017.  The CPUC took no action other than to request reconsideration of whether bidder s BVEM information can be provided as public information.  PSCo is evaluating this request.43Table of Contents2016 Electric Resource Plan (ERP)   In May 2016,  PSCo filed its 2016 ERP which included its estimated need for additional generation resources and its proposal to acquire those resources through a competitive Request for Proposal (RFP) process.  The CPUC issued its decision on Phase I in late April 2017, approving the Phase I modeling assumptions to be used in Phase II and directed PSCo to file an updated capacity need prior to issuing any RFPs.  PSCo plans to update the range of resource need to be considered within the competitive RFP process and issue the RFP in August 2017.  The CPUC is expected to rule on the RFP results in the second quarter of 2018.Advanced Grid Intelligence and Security   In July 2017, the CPUC approved PSCo s CPCN for implementation of its advanced grid initiative.  The project incorporates installing advanced meters, implementing hardware and software applications to allow the distribution system to operate at a lower voltage  (integrated volt-var optimization) and installing communications infrastructure.  These major projects are expected to improve customer experience, enhance grid reliability and enable the implementation of new and innovative programs and rate structures. In June 2017, the CPUC approved a settlement, which delayed the advanced meter deployment from 2017-2021 to 2019-2024.  The total capital cost of the project is currently estimated to be approximately $537 million for 2017-2024.  As a result of the settlement, approximately $120 million of capital investment was deferred to 2022-2024.Decoupling Filing   In July 2016, PSCo filed a request with the CPUC to approve a partial decoupling mechanism, which would adjust annual revenues based on changes in weather normalized average use per customer for the residential and small commercial classes.  In July 2017, the CPUC issued a decision which approved the following key decisions regarding decoupling: Effective Jan. 1, 2018 through December 2023 (subject to establishing new rates in the next electric rate case); Applicable to the residential class and small commercial class; Based on total class revenues (subject to establishing the base period in the next electric rate case); Based on actual sales; and Subject to a soft cap of 3 percent on any annual adjustment.PSCo plans to seek reconsideration of the order.Boulder, Colo. Municipalization   In 2011, Boulder voters passed a ballot measure authorizing the formation of a municipal utility.  In 2014, the Boulder City Council passed an ordinance to establish an electric utility.  PSCo challenged the formation of this utility as premature because costs and system separation plans were not final.  The Boulder District Court dismissed the case for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.  PSCo appealed this decision. In September 2016, the Colorado Court of Appeals vacated the District Court s decision, and ultimately preserved PSCo s ability to challenge the utility formation.  Boulder subsequently filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari with the Colorado Supreme Court.  The Supreme Court has not yet ruled whether it will exercise its discretion and review the petition.In January 2015, the Boulder District Court affirmed a prior CPUC decision that Boulder cannot serve customers outside its city limits.  The District Court also ruled the CPUC has jurisdiction over the transfer of any facilities to Boulder and how the systems are separated to preserve reliability, safety and effectiveness.  In February 2015, the Boulder District Court also dismissed the condemnation action Boulder had filed.  The CPUC must approve the separation plan before Boulder files its condemnation proceeding.In July 2015, Boulder filed an application with the CPUC requesting approval of its proposed separation plan.  PSCo filed a motion to dismiss Boulder s application.  The CPUC dismissed a portion of Boulder s application, but allowed Boulder to supplement its application.  Boulder filed its second supplemental application in September 2016.   In March 2017, PSCo and other parties filed their testimony outlining their concerns about the Boulder separation plan and raised legal concerns about aspects of the plan.  In April 2017, despite extensive negotiations between PSCo and Boulder, the Boulder City Council voted to continue litigation for municipalization.   Also, the CPUC ordered Boulder to file a third supplemental separation plan clearly laying out Boulder s proposal.  Boulder proposed a plan that would cost approximately $75 million.  Boulder proposed sharing of certain distribution and substation facilities and requested that PSCo be required to construct Boulder s new facilities and finance the construction.  In June 2017, PSCo and other intervenors filed alternatives to Boulder s separation plan and opposed the sharing; contracting and financing aspects of the plan.  Evidentiary hearings began July 26, 2017.44Table of ContentsMountain West Transmission Group (MWTG)   PSCo initiated discussions with six other transmission owners from the Rocky Mountain region to evaluate the merits of creating and operating pursuant to a joint transmission tariff that may increase wholesale market efficiency and improve regional transmission planning.  In 2016, the MWTG established a non-binding memorandum of understanding to guide their process and issued a request for information to four established RTOs. In January 2017, the MWTG initiated preliminary discussions with the SPP to begin evaluation of the costs and benefits of MWTG participation in the SPP RTO.  The CPUC has held informational meetings on certain issues including financial implications and reliability.  If PSCo were to move forward with RTO participation, CPUC and FERC approval would be required.  If approved, operations within the RTO would not be expected to begin until 2019, at the earliest.  PSCo will evaluate its options later in 2017 and beyond.SPSTUCO Substation to Yoakum County Substation to Hobbs Plant Substation 345 KV Transmission Line   In March 2016, the PUCT approved SPS  Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) for the 33-mile Yoakum County to Texas/New Mexico State line portion of this 345 KV line project.  A CCN for the 111-mile TUCO to Yoakum County substation segment was filed in June 2016.  Assuming approval of this CCN, this segment is scheduled to be in service in 2020.  A 36-mile CCN for the Texas/New Mexico state line to Hobbs Plant segment was filed in June 2017.  The estimated project cost for all three segments is approximately $242 million.  Wholesale Customer Participation in Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT)   In March 2016, the PUCT Staff requested comments on Lubbock Power & Light s (LP&L s) proposal to transition a portion of its load (approximately 430 MW on a peak basis) to the ERCOT in June 2019.  LP&L s proposal would result in an approximate seven percent reduction of load in SPS, or a loss of approximately $18 million in wholesale transmission revenue.  The remaining portion of LP&L s load (approximately 170 MW) would continue to be served by SPS.  Should LP&L join ERCOT, costs to SPS  remaining customers would increase as SPS  transmission costs would be spread across a smaller base of customers. The PUCT has indicated there will be a two-step process regarding LP&L s possible transfer to ERCOT.  The first step will be a proceeding to determine whether the proposed transfer is in the public interest and to consider certain protections for non-LP&L customers who would be affected by LP&L s transfer.  If the PUCT determines the transfer is in the public interest, the second step will be for LP&L to file a CCN application for transmission facilities to connect with ERCOT.  The PUCT asked SPP and ERCOT to perform reliability and economic studies to better understand the implications of LP&L s proposal.  SPP and ERCOT filed the studies on June 30, 2017.  LP&L is expected to file an application with the PUCT for a public interest determination in August 2017.  SPS intends to participate in the PUCT s processes to protect its customers  interests.  No final decision regarding LP&L s departure or its potential timing is expected until completion of the PUCT proceedings.Summary of Recent Federal Regulatory DevelopmentsFERCThe FERC has jurisdiction over rates for electric transmission service in interstate commerce and electricity sold at wholesale, hydro facility licensing, natural gas transportation, asset transactions and mergers, accounting practices and certain other activities of Xcel Energy Inc. s utility subsidiaries and transmission-only subsidiaries, including enforcement of North American Electric Reliability Corporation mandatory electric reliability standards.  State and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of Xcel Energy Inc. s utility subsidiaries  activities, including regulation of retail rates and environmental matters.  See additional discussion in the summary of recent federal regulatory developments and public utility regulation sections of the Xcel Energy Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017.  In addition to the matters discussed below, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of other regulatory matters.Status of FERC Commissioners   The FERC is normally comprised of five commissioners appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate.  There is currently only one sitting commissioner.  Without three commissioners, the FERC does not have a quorum to act on contested matters.  The lack of a quorum could affect the timing of FERC decisions on proposed rules or pending, newly submitted and future filings involving, among other things, contested electric rate matters and CPCNs for construction of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities to serve the utility subsidiaries.  Xcel Energy does not expect any disruption in operations or material delay in decisions on contested matters pending before the FERC.  President Trump has submitted nominations to fill three of the vacant seats and has indicated his intent to submit one additional nomination.  The three submitted nominations are pending confirmation by the full Senate.  45Table of ContentsFERC ROE Policy   In June 2014, the FERC adopted a two-step ROE methodology for electric utilities in an order issued in a complaint proceeding involving New England Transmission Owners (NETOs).  The issue of how to apply the FERC ROE methodology has been contested in various complaint proceedings, including two ROE complaints involving the MISO TOs, which includes NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.  In April 2017, the D.C. Circuit vacated and remanded the June 2014 ROE order.  The D.C. Circuit found that the FERC had not properly determined that the ROE authorized for NETOs prior to June 2014 was unjust and unreasonable.  The D.C. Circuit also found that the FERC failed to justify the new ROE methodology.  The FERC has yet to act on the D.C. Circuit s decision and cannot act without a quorum.  See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the D.C. Circuit s decision and the impact on the MISO ROE Complaints. Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA) Enforcement Complaint against CPUC   In December 2016, Sustainable Power Group, LLC (sPower) petitioned the FERC to initiate an enforcement action in federal court against the CPUC under PURPA.  The petition asserts that a December 2016 CPUC ruling, which indicated that a qualifying facility must be a successful bidder in a PSCo resource acquisition bidding process, violated PURPA and FERC rules.  In January 2017, PSCo filed a motion to intervene and protest, arguing that the FERC should decline the petition.  The CPUC filed a similar pleading.  sPower has proposed to construct 800 MW of solar generation and 700 MW of wind generation in Colorado and seeks to require PSCo to contract for these resources under PURPA.  If sPower were to prevail, PSCo s ability to select generation resources through competitive bidding would be negatively affected.  However, due to a lack of quorum at the FERC, the FERC did not act on that petition within the sixty days contemplated by PURPA.  Subsequently sPower filed a complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado (District Court) requesting that the court find the bidding requirement in the CPUC qualifying facility rules to be unlawful.  PSCo has intervened in that proceeding and the CPUC has filed a motion to dismiss.  In June 2017, the United States Magistrate Judge (Magistrate) issued a recommendation to the District Court that sPower s complaint be dismissed because sPower failed to establish that it faced a substantial risk of harm.  The Magistrate s recommendation is pending before the District Court.Solar Gardens InvestmentIn July 2017, a newly formed subsidiary of Xcel Energy signed an agreement with a solar developer to construct and operate approximately 19 MW of new community solar gardens in Minnesota serving existing NSP-Minnesota customers. The projects are expected to achieve commercial operations in 2017 and 2018.Derivatives, Risk Management and Market RiskXcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries are exposed to a variety of market risks in the normal course of business.  Market risk is the potential loss that may occur as a result of adverse changes in the market or fair value of a particular instrument or commodity.  All financial and commodity-related instruments, including derivatives, are subject to market risk.  See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of market risks associated with derivatives.Xcel Energy is exposed to the impact of adverse changes in price for energy and energy-related products, which is partially mitigated by the use of commodity derivatives.  In addition to ongoing monitoring and maintaining credit policies intended to minimize overall credit risk, when necessary, management takes steps to mitigate changes in credit and concentration risks associated with its derivatives and other contracts, including parental guarantees and requests of collateral.  While Xcel Energy expects that the counterparties will perform under the contracts underlying its derivatives, the contracts expose Xcel Energy to some credit and non-performance risk.Though no material non-performance risk currently exists with the counterparties to Xcel Energy s commodity derivative contracts, distress in the financial markets may in the future impact that risk to the extent it impacts those counterparties.  Distress in the financial markets may also impact the fair value of the securities in the nuclear decommissioning fund and master pension trust, as well as Xcel Energy s ability to earn a return on short-term investments of excess cash.Commodity Price Risk   Xcel Energy Inc. s utility subsidiaries are exposed to commodity price risk in their electric and natural gas operations.  Commodity price risk is managed by entering into long- and short-term physical purchase and sales contracts for electric capacity, energy and energy-related products and for various fuels used in generation and distribution activities.  Commodity price risk is also managed through the use of financial derivative instruments.  Xcel Energy s risk management policy allows it to manage commodity price risk within each rate-regulated operation to the extent such exposure exists.46Table of ContentsWholesale and Commodity Trading Risk   Xcel Energy Inc. s utility subsidiaries conduct various wholesale and commodity trading activities, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, energy-related instruments and natural gas-related instruments, including derivatives.  Xcel Energy s risk management policy allows management to conduct these activities within guidelines and limitations as approved by its risk management committee, which is made up of management personnel not directly involved in the activities governed by this policy.At June 30, 2017, the fair values by source for net commodity trading contract assets were as follows:  Options(Thousands of Dollars) Source of Fair Value MaturityLess Than 1 Year Maturity 1 to 3 Years Maturity 4 to 5 Years MaturityGreater Than 5 Years Total Futures/Forwards Fair ValueNSP-Minnesota 2 $(512) $2,129 $3,042 $  $4,6591   Prices actively quoted or based on actively quoted prices.2   Prices based on models and other valuation methods.Changes in the fair value of commodity trading contracts before the impacts of margin-sharing mechanisms were as follows:  Six Months Ended June 30(Thousands of Dollars) 2017 2016Fair value of commodity trading net contract assets outstanding at Jan. 1 $9,771 $11,040Contracts realized or settled during the period (5,998) (1,406)Commodity trading contract additions and changes during the period 11,284 460Fair value of commodity trading net contract assets outstanding at June 30 $15,057 $10,094At June 30, 2017, a 10 percent increase in market prices for commodity trading contracts would increase pretax income from continuing operations by approximately $0.3 million, whereas a 10 percent decrease would decrease pretax income from continuing operations by approximately $0.8 million.  At June 30, 2016, a 10 percent increase in market prices for commodity trading contracts would increase pretax income from continuing operations by approximately $0.1 million, whereas a 10 percent decrease would decrease pretax income from continuing operations by approximately $0.1 million.Xcel Energy Inc. s utility subsidiaries  wholesale and commodity trading operations measure the outstanding risk exposure to price changes on transactions, contracts and obligations that have been entered into, but not closed, using an industry standard methodology known as Value at Risk (VaR).  VaR expresses the potential change in fair value on the outstanding transactions, contracts and obligations over a particular period of time under normal market conditions.The VaRs for the NSP-Minnesota and PSCo commodity trading operations, calculated on a consolidated basis using a Monte Carlo simulation with a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, were as follows:47Table of ContentsNuclear Fuel Supply   NSP-Minnesota is scheduled to take delivery of approximately 13 percent of its 2017 and approximately 54 percent of its 2018 enriched nuclear material requirements from sources that could be impacted by events in Ukraine and sanctions against Russia.  Alternate potential sources are expected to provide the flexibility to manage NSP-Minnesota s nuclear fuel supply to ensure that plant availability and reliability will not be negatively impacted in the near-term.  Long-term, through 2024, NSP-Minnesota is scheduled to take delivery of approximately 31 percent of its average enriched nuclear material requirements from sources that could be impacted by events in Ukraine and extended sanctions against Russia.  NSP-Minnesota is closely following the progression of these events and will periodically assess if further actions are required to assure a secure supply of enriched nuclear material. Separately, NSP-Minnesota has enriched nuclear fuel materials in process with Westinghouse Electric Corporation (Westinghouse).   Westinghouse filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in March 2017.  NSP-Minnesota owns materials in Westinghouse s inventory and has contracts in place under which Westinghouse will provide certain services during an upcoming outage at PI.  Westinghouse has indicated its intention to perform under the arrangements.  Based on Westinghouse s stated intent and the interim financing secured to fund its on-going operations, NSP-Minnesota does not expect the bankruptcy to materially impact NSP-Minnesota s operational or financial performance. Interest Rate Risk   Xcel Energy is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business.  Xcel Energy s risk management policy allows interest rate risk to be managed through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt and interest rate derivatives such as swaps, caps, collars and put or call options.At June 30, 2017 and 2016, a 100-basis-point change in the benchmark rate on Xcel Energy s variable rate debt would impact pretax interest expense annually by approximately $9.4 million and $5.9 million, respectively.  See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries  interest rate derivatives.NSP-Minnesota also maintains a nuclear decommissioning fund, as required by the NRC.  The nuclear decommissioning fund is subject to interest rate risk and equity price risk.  At June 30, 2017, the fund was invested in a diversified portfolio of cash equivalents, debt securities, equity securities, and other investments.  These investments may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning.  Given the purpose and legal restrictions on the use of nuclear decommissioning fund assets, realized and unrealized gains on fund investments over the life of the fund are deferred as an offset of NSP-Minnesota s regulatory asset for nuclear decommissioning costs.  Consequently, any realized and unrealized gains and losses on securities in the nuclear decommissioning fund, including any other-than-temporary impairments, are deferred as a component of the regulatory asset for nuclear decommissioning.  Since the accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through rates, fluctuations in equity prices or interest rates affecting the nuclear decommissioning fund do not have a direct impact on earnings.Credit Risk   Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk.  Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from counterparties  nonperformance on their contractual obligations.  Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries maintain credit policies intended to minimize overall credit risk and actively monitor these policies to reflect changes and scope of operations.At June 30, 2017, a 10 percent increase in commodity prices would have resulted in an increase in credit exposure of $18.1 million, while a decrease in prices of 10 percent would have resulted in an increase in credit exposure of $2.1 million.  At June 30, 2016, a 10 percent increase in commodity prices would have resulted in a decrease in credit exposure of $9.2 million, while a decrease in prices of 10 percent would have resulted in an increase in credit exposure of $16.4 million.Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries conduct standard credit reviews for all counterparties.  Xcel Energy employs additional credit risk control mechanisms when appropriate, such as letters of credit, parental guarantees, standardized master netting agreements and termination provisions that allow for offsetting of positive and negative exposures.  Credit exposure is monitored and, when necessary, the activity with a specific counterparty is limited until credit enhancement is provided.  Distress in the financial markets could increase Xcel Energy s credit risk.Fair Value MeasurementsXcel Energy follows accounting and disclosure guidance on fair value measurements that contains a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value and requires disclosure of the observability of the inputs used in these measurements.  See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the fair value hierarchy and the amounts of assets and liabilities measured at fair value that have been assigned to Level 3.48Table of ContentsCommodity Derivatives   Xcel Energy continuously monitors the creditworthiness of the counterparties to its commodity derivative contracts and assesses each counterparty s ability to perform on the transactions set forth in the contracts.  Given this assessment and the typically short duration of these contracts, the impact of discounting commodity derivative assets for counterparty credit risk was not material to the fair value of commodity derivative assets at June 30, 2017.  Adjustments to fair value for credit risk of commodity trading instruments are recorded in electric revenues.  Credit risk adjustments for other commodity derivative instruments are deferred as other comprehensive income (OCI) or regulatory assets and liabilities.  The classification as a regulatory asset or liability is based on commission approved regulatory recovery mechanisms.  Xcel Energy also assesses the impact of its own credit risk when determining the fair value of commodity derivative liabilities.  The impact of discounting commodity derivative liabilities for credit risk was immaterial to the fair value of commodity derivative liabilities at June 30, 2017.Commodity derivative assets and liabilities assigned to Level 3 typically consist of FTRs, as well as forwards and options that are long-term in nature.  Level 3 commodity derivative assets and liabilities represent 3.5 percent and 9.8 percent of total assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value at June 30, 2017.Determining the fair value of FTRs requires numerous management forecasts that vary in observability, including various forward commodity prices, retail and wholesale demand, generation and resulting transmission system congestion.  Given the limited observability of management s forecasts for several of these inputs, these instruments have been assigned a Level 3.  Level 3 commodity derivatives assets and liabilities included $68.1 million and $4.0 million of estimated fair values, respectively, for FTRs held at June 30, 2017.Determining the fair value of certain commodity forwards and options can require management to make use of subjective price and volatility forecasts which extend to periods beyond those readily observable on active exchanges or quoted by brokers.  When less observable forward price and volatility forecasts are significant to determining the value of commodity forwards and options, these instruments are assigned to Level 3.  There were $5.2 million in Level 3 commodity derivative assets and no liabilities for options held at June 30, 2017.  There were immaterial Level 3 forwards held at June 30, 2017.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash FlowsNet cash provided by operating activities decreased $133 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared with the six months ended June 30, 2016.  The decrease was primarily due to lower tax refunds received and the timing of vendor payments, customer receipts, refunds, and recovery of certain electric and natural gas riders, partially offset by higher net income, excluding amounts related to non-cash operating activities (e.g., depreciation and deferred tax expenses).Net cash used in investing activities increased $31 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared with the six months ended June 30, 2016.  The increase was primarily attributable to higher capital expenditures related to the Rush Creek wind generation facility, partially offset by lower rabbi trust investments in 2017.  Six Months Ended June 30(Millions of Dollars) 2017 2016Cash provided by financing activities $159 $10Net cash provided by financing activities increased $149 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared with the six months ended June 30, 2017.  The increase was primarily attributable to lower repayments of long-term debt, partially offset by lower debt proceeds (net) year over year and higher dividend payments. 49Table of ContentsCapital RequirementsXcel Energy expects to meet future financing requirements by periodically issuing short-term debt, long-term debt, common stock, hybrid and other securities to maintain desired capitalization ratios.Regulation of Derivatives   In July 2010, financial reform legislation was passed that provides for the regulation of derivative transactions amongst other provisions.  Provisions within the bill provide the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the SEC with expanded regulatory authority over derivative and swap transactions.  The CFTC ruled that swap dealing activity conducted by entities for the preceding 12 months under a notional limit, initially set at $8 billion, will fall under the general de minimis threshold and will not subject an entity to registering as a swap dealer.  The de minimis threshold is scheduled to be reduced to $3 billion in 2018.  Xcel Energy s current and projected swap activity is well below these de minimis thresholds.  The bill also contains provisions that exempt certain derivatives end users from much of the clearing and margin requirements and Xcel Energy s Board of Directors has renewed the end-user exemption on an annual basis.  Xcel Energy is currently meeting all reporting requirements and transaction restrictions.Southwest Power Pool Inc. (SPP) FTR Margining Requirements   In SPP, the process for TOs involves the receipt of Auction Revenue Rights (ARRs) and, if elected by the TO, conversion of those ARRs to firm FTRs.  SPP requires that the TO post collateral for the conversion of ARRs to FTRs.  At June 30, 2017, SPS had a $2.5 million letter of credit posted with SPP for the annual FTR auction, which was a reduction from the initial requirement of $15 million. Pension Fund   Xcel Energy s pension assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of domestic and international equity securities, short-term to long-duration fixed income securities, and alternative investments, including private equity, real estate, hedge fund of funds and commodity investments. In January 2017, contributions of $150.0 million were made across four of Xcel Energy s pension plans; In 2016, contributions of $125.2 million were made across four of Xcel Energy s pension plans; and For future years, contributions will be made as deemed appropriate based on evaluation of various factors including the funded status of the plans, minimum funding requirements, interest rates and expected investment returns.Capital SourcesShort-Term Funding Sources   Xcel Energy uses a number of sources to fulfill short-term funding needs, including operating cash flow, notes payable, commercial paper and bank lines of credit.  The amount and timing of short-term funding needs depend in large part on financing needs for construction expenditures, working capital and dividend payments.Short-Term Investments   Xcel Energy Inc., NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS maintain cash operating and short-term investment accounts.  At June 30, 2017, approximately $1.8 million of cash was held in these accounts.Credit Facilities   NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo, SPS and Xcel Energy Inc. each have five-year credit agreements with a syndicate of banks.  The total size of the credit facilities is $2.75 billion and each credit facility terminates in June 2021.NSP-Minnesota, PSCo, SPS and Xcel Energy Inc. each have the right to request an extension of the revolving credit facility termination date for two additional one-year periods. NSP-Wisconsin has the right to request an extension of the revolving credit facility termination date for an additional one-year period. All extension requests are subject to majority bank group approval.As of July 24, 2017, Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries had the following committed credit facilities available to meet liquidity needs:(a) These credit facilities expire in June 2021.(b) Includes outstanding commercial paper and letters of credit.50Table of ContentsCommercial Paper   Xcel Energy Inc., NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS each have individual commercial paper programs.  The authorized levels for these commercial paper programs are: $1 billion for Xcel Energy Inc.; $700 million for PSCo; $500 million for NSP-Minnesota; $400 million for SPS; and $150 million for NSP-Wisconsin.Commercial paper outstanding for Xcel Energy was as follows:(Amounts in Millions, Except Interest Rates) Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 Year Ended Dec. 31, 2016Borrowing limit $2,750 $2,750Amount outstanding at period end 784 392Average amount outstanding 778 485Maximum amount outstanding 1,247 1,183Weighted average interest rate, computed on a daily basis 1.28% 0.74%Weighted average interest rate at period end 1.49 0.95Money Pool   Xcel Energy received FERC approval to establish a utility money pool arrangement with the utility subsidiaries, subject to receipt of required state regulatory approvals.  The utility money pool allows for short-term investments in and borrowings between the utility subsidiaries.  Xcel Energy Inc. may make investments in the utility subsidiaries at market-based interest rates; however, the money pool arrangement does not allow the utility subsidiaries to make investments in Xcel Energy Inc.  The money pool balances are eliminated in consolidation.NSP-Minnesota, PSCo and SPS participate in the money pool pursuant to approval from their respective state regulatory commissions.  NSP-Wisconsin does not participate in the money pool.Financing   Xcel Energy issues debt and equity securities to refinance retiring maturities, reduce short-term debt, fund capital programs, infuse equity in subsidiaries, fund asset acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes.During 2017, Xcel Energy Inc. and its utility subsidiaries issued and anticipate issuing the following: PSCo issued $400 million of 3.80 percent first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2047; Xcel Energy Inc. plans to issue approximately $300 million of senior unsecured bonds in the fourth quarter; NSP-Minnesota plans to issue approximately $600 million of first mortgage bonds in the third quarter; NSP-Wisconsin plans to issue approximately $100 million of first mortgage bonds in the fourth quarter; and SPS plans to issue approximately $450 million of first mortgage bonds in the third quarter.Financing plans are subject to change, depending on capital expenditures, internal cash generation, market conditions and other factors.Off-Balance-Sheet ArrangementsXcel Energy does not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements, other than those currently disclosed, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.Earnings Guidance and Long-Term EPS and Dividend Growth Rate ObjectivesXcel Energy s 2017 GAAP and ongoing earnings guidance is $2.25 to $2.35 per share.(a)  Key assumptions related to 2017 earnings are detailed below: Constructive outcomes in all rate case and regulatory proceedings. Normal weather patterns are experienced for the remainder of the year. Weather-normalized retail electric utility sales are projected to increase 0 percent to 0.5 percent. Weather-normalized retail firm natural gas sales are projected to increase 0 percent to 0.5 percent.51Table of Contents Capital rider revenue is projected to increase by $50 million to $60 million over 2016 levels.  The change is largely due to the level of PTC, which flows back to customers. O&M expenses are projected to be flat. Depreciation expense is projected to increase approximately $180 million to $190 million over 2016 levels.  The change in depreciation expense is largely due to changes in the amortization of the renewable development fund, which is offset in revenue and will not have an impact on earnings.   Property taxes are projected to increase approximately $0 million to $10 million over 2016 levels. Interest expense (net of AFUDC   debt) is projected to increase $15 million to $25 million over 2016 levels. AFUDC   equity is projected to increase approximately $5 million to $15 million from 2016 levels. The ETR is projected to be approximately 31 percent to 33 percent.  The change is largely due to the level of PTC, which flows back to customers. Average common stock and equivalents are projected to be approximately 509 million shares.(a)  Ongoing earnings could differ from those prepared in accordance with GAAP for unplanned and/or unknown adjustments.  Xcel Energy is unable to forecast if any of these items will occur or provide a quantitative reconciliation of the guidance for ongoing diluted EPS to corresponding GAAP diluted EPS.Long-Term EPS and Dividend Growth Rate Objectives Xcel Energy expects to deliver an attractive total return to our shareholders through a combination of earnings growth and dividend yield, based on the following long-term objectives:  Deliver long-term annual EPS growth of 4 percent to 6 percent;  Deliver annual dividend increases of 5 percent to 7 percent;  Target a dividend payout ratio of 60 percent to 70 percent; and  Maintain senior unsecured debt credit ratings in the BBB+ to A range.Ongoing earnings is calculated using net income and adjusting for certain nonrecurring or infrequent items that are, in management s view, not reflective of ongoing operations.Item 3   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKSee Management s Discussion and Analysis   Derivatives, Risk Management and Market Risk under Item 2.Item 4   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESDisclosure Controls and ProceduresXcel Energy maintains a set of disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms.  In addition, the disclosure controls and procedures ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, including the chief executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO), allowing timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  As of June 30, 2017, based on an evaluation carried out under the supervision and with the participation of Xcel Energy s management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and the procedures, the CEO and CFO have concluded that Xcel Energy s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.Internal Control Over Financial ReportingIn 2016, Xcel Energy implemented the general ledger modules, as well as initiated deployment of work management systems modules, of a new enterprise resource planning system to improve certain financial and related transaction processes.  Xcel Energy is continuing to implement additional modules including the conversion of existing work management systems to this same system during 2017.  In connection with this ongoing implementation, Xcel Energy is updating its internal control over financial reporting, as necessary, to accommodate modifications to its business processes and accounting systems. Xcel Energy does not believe that this implementation will have an adverse effect on its internal control over financial reporting.No changes in Xcel Energy s internal control over financial reporting occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Xcel Energy s internal control over financial reporting.52Table of ContentsPart II   OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1   LEGAL PROCEEDINGSXcel Energy is involved in various litigation matters that are being defended and handled in the ordinary course of business.  The assessment of whether a loss is probable or is a reasonable possibility, and whether the loss or a range of loss is estimable, often involves a series of complex judgments about future events.  Management maintains accruals for such losses that are probable of being incurred and subject to reasonable estimation.  Management is sometimes unable to estimate an amount or range of a reasonably possible loss in certain situations, including but not limited to when (1) the damages sought are indeterminate, (2) the proceedings are in the early stages, or (3) the matters involve novel or unsettled legal theories.  In such cases, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the timing or ultimate resolution of such matters, including a possible eventual loss.Additional InformationSee Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of legal claims and environmental proceedings.  See Part I Item 2 and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of proceedings involving utility rates and other regulatory matters.Item 1A   RISK FACTORSXcel Energy Inc. s risk factors are documented in Item 1A of Part I of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016, which is incorporated herein by reference.  There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Form 10-K.Item 2   UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSPurchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated PurchasersThe following table provides information about our purchases of equity securities that are registered by Xcel Energy Inc. pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act for the quarter ended June 30, 2017:  Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPeriod Total Number ofShares Purchased Average PricePaid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or ProgramsApril 1, 2017   April 30, 2017   $     May 1, 2017   May 31, 2017        June 1, 2017   June 30, 2017        Total        53Table of ContentsItem 6   EXHIBITS* Indicates incorporation by reference+ Executive Compensation Arrangements and Benefit Plans Covering Executive Officers and Directors3.01*Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy Inc., as filed on May 18, 2012 (Exhibit 3.01 to Form 8-K dated May 16, 2012 (file no. 001-03034)).3.02*Bylaws of Xcel Energy Inc., as amended on Feb. 17, 2016 (Exhibit 3.01 to Form 8-K dated Feb. 18, 2016 (file no. 001-03034)).4.01*Supplemental Indenture No. 27 dated as of June 1, 2017 between PSCo and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, creating $400 million principal amount of 3.80 percent First Mortgage Bonds, Series No. 30 due 2047. (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K of PSCo dated June 19, 2017 (file no. 001-03280)).31.01Principal Executive Officer s certifications pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.31.02Principal Financial Officer s certifications pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.32.01Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.99.01Statement pursuant to Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.101The following materials from Xcel Energy Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 are formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language):  (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders  Equity, (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and (vii) document and entity information.54Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  XCEL ENERGY INC.   July 28, 2017By:/s/ JEFFREY S. SAVAGE  Jeffrey S. Savage  Senior Vice President, Controller  (Principal Accounting Officer)     /s/ ROBERT C. FRENZEL  Robert C. Frenzel  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  (Principal Financial Officer)55   