<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>eogform10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

===============================================================================


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                              -------------------
                                   Form 10-K
                              -------------------

         [x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

         [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission file number: 1-9743

                               EOG RESOURCES, INC.

              (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                   Delaware                        47-0684736
     (State or other jurisdiction      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     of incorporation or organization)

              333 Clay Street, Suite 4200, Houston, Texas 77002-7361
               (Address of principal executive offices)   (zip code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  713-651-7000

            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

          Title of each class         Name of each exchange on which registered
     -------------------------------  -----------------------------------------
      Common Stock, $.01 par value             New York Stock Exchange
     Preferred Share Purchase Rights           New York Stock Exchange

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None.

      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed  all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934 during the preceding 12 months  (or  for  such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and  (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past  90
days.  Yes [x]  No [ ].

      Indicate  by  check  mark  if disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
pursuant  to  Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and
will  not  be  contained,  to the best of registrant's  knowledge,  in
definitive  proxy or information statements incorporated by  reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K [x].

      Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of  the  registrant,  based on the closing sale  price  in  the  daily
composite  list  for transactions on the New York  Stock  Exchange  on
March  11,  2002  was  $39.49.  As  of  March  11,  2002,  there  were
115,799,126 shares of the registrant's Common Stock, $.01  par  value,
outstanding.

      Documents incorporated by reference.  Portions of the  following
documents  are incorporated by reference into the indicated  parts  of
this report:  2001 Annual Report to Stockholders - Part I, II and  IV;
and Proxy Statement for the May 7, 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to   be  filed  within  120  days  after  December  31,  2001  ("Proxy
Statement") - Part III.


===============================================================================

<PAGE> (i)

                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                          Page
                                PART I
Item 1.  Business.........................................................   1
          General.........................................................   1
          Business Segments...............................................   1
          Exploration and Production......................................   1
          Marketing.......................................................   4
           Wellhead Volumes and Prices, and Lease and Well Expenses.......   5
          Competition.....................................................   6
          Regulation......................................................   6
          Transactions with Enron Corp. ..................................   8
          Other Matters...................................................   9
          Current Executive Officers of the Registrant....................  11

Item 2.  Properties
          Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Properties and Reserves..  12

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings................................................  15

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..............  15

                                PART II
Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Shareholder Matters.............................................  15

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data..........................................  16

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations.......................................  16

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.......  17

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................  17

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
          and Financial Disclosure........................................  17

                               PART III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...............  17

Item 11. Executive Compensation...........................................  18

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...  18

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...................  18

                                PART IV
Item 14. Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule,
         Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K.................................  18




<PAGE>  1

                                PART I

ITEM 1.  Business

General

      EOG  Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation organized  in  1985
("EOG"),  together  with  its subsidiaries,  explores  for,  develops,
produces  and  markets natural gas and crude oil  primarily  in  major
producing  basins  in  the United States, as well  as  in  Canada  and
Trinidad and, to a lesser extent, selected other international  areas.
EOG's   principal   producing  areas  are  further   described   under
"Exploration  and  Production" below.  At  December  31,  2001,  EOG's
estimated  net  proved natural gas reserves were 3,796  billion  cubic
feet  ("Bcf")  and  estimated net proved  crude  oil,  condensate  and
natural  gas  liquids reserves were 72 million barrels ("MMBbl")  (see
"Supplemental  Information to Consolidated  Financial  Statements"  on
page  36 of EOG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2002, which included financial
statements  of  EOG for the fiscal year ended December 31,  2001  (the
"Form  8-K  filed on February 28, 2002")). At such date, approximately
55%  of EOG's reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis) was located
in  the  United  States,  16% in Canada and 29%  in  Trinidad.  As  of
December  31, 2001, EOG employed approximately 960 persons,  including
foreign national employees.

      EOG's  business strategy is to maximize the rate  of  return  on
investment of capital by controlling all operating and capital  costs.
This  strategy is intended to enhance the generation of cash flow  and
earnings from each unit of production on a cost-effective basis.   EOG
focuses  its  drilling activity toward natural gas  deliverability  in
addition  to  natural gas reserve replacement and to a  lesser  extent
crude oil exploitation.  EOG focuses on the cost-effective utilization
of  advances  in technology associated with the gathering,  processing
and  interpretation of three-dimensional seismic data, the development
of  reservoir simulation models, the use of new and/or improved  drill
bits,  mud  motors and mud additives, and formation logging techniques
and  reservoir  fracturing  methods. These advanced  technologies  are
used,  as  appropriate, throughout EOG to reduce the risks  associated
with all aspects of oil and gas reserve exploration, exploitation  and
development.  EOG implements its strategy by emphasizing the  drilling
of  internally  generated prospects in order to find and  develop  low
cost  reserves.   EOG also makes selected tactical  acquisitions  that
result  in  additional  economies of  scale  or  land  positions  with
significant  additional  prospects.   Achieving  and  maintaining  the
lowest  possible  operating cost structure  that  is  consistent  with
prudent  and  safe  operations  are  also  important  goals   in   the
implementation of EOG's strategy.

     With respect to information on EOG's working interest in wells or
acreage,  "net"  oil  and  gas  wells or  acreage  are  determined  by
multiplying  "gross"  oil and gas wells or acreage  by  EOG's  working
interest  in  the  wells  or acreage.  Unless otherwise  defined,  all
references to wells are gross.

Business Segments

      EOG's  operations are all natural gas and crude oil  exploration
and production related.

Exploration and Production

  North America Operations

      EOG's North American operations are organized into eight largely
autonomous business units or divisions, each focusing on one  or  more
basins,   utilizing  personnel  who  have  developed  experience   and
expertise  unique  to  the geology of the region,  thereby  leveraging
EOG's  knowledge and cost structure into enhanced returns on  invested
capital.

      At December 31, 2001, 86% of EOG's proved United States reserves
(on  a natural gas equivalent basis) was natural gas and 14% was crude
oil,  condensate  and natural gas liquids.  A substantial  portion  of
EOG's United States natural gas reserves is in long-lived fields  with
well-established production histories. EOG believes that opportunities
exist to increase production in many of these fields through continued
development and application of new technology.  EOG will also continue
an  active exploration program, designed to extend existing fields and
add  new  trends to our broad portfolio of North American plays.   The
following  is  a summary of significant developments during  2001  and
certain  drilling  plans for 2002 for EOG's North  American  operating
divisions.



<PAGE>  2

     Midland,  Texas Division.  The division operations are  primarily
focused  in the Delaware, Val Verde, and Midland Basin areas  of  West
Texas,  and  Southeast New Mexico.  During 2001, the Midland  Division
increased  net  average daily production by 7% from 145 million  cubic
feet  equivalent ("MMcfe") per day in 2000 to 155 MMcfe per day during
2001.   The division drilled 89 wells in 2001.  During the year a  new
play was initiated in the Devonian horizontal trend with completion of
nine  horizontal  gas  wells.   With these  encouraging  results,  EOG
increased  acreage positions in the Devonian trend  to  153,000  gross
acres.   The  division also continued to have success in  the  Montoya
horizontal  trend, Permo-Penn Carbonate trend, and  in  Southeast  New
Mexico.

     Denver,  Colorado Division.  Key producing areas for  the  Denver
Division  remain in the traditional core areas of Big Piney -  LaBarge
Platform;  Vernal - Chapita / Natural Buttes; and Southwest Wyoming  -
Washakie  Basin.   Throughout 2001, the division continued  developing
these core areas while also exploring in new areas and drilling deeper
on  our  existing core properties.  For 2001, the division drilled  or
participated in 195 development wells and 21 wildcats.  Net production
for  the division in 2001 averaged 123 million cubic feet ("MMcf") per
day  of natural gas and 6.0 thousand barrels ("MBbl") per day of crude
oil and condensate.  Natural gas volumes were 7% lower than in 2000 as
a  result of voluntary curtailment in response to low gas prices,  and
crude  oil  and condensate volumes were up 18% from 2000  due  to  the
successful drilling in the California, North Shafter area.

      Oklahoma  City/Mid-Continent Division.   The  Mid-Continent
Division  increased net average daily production by 17% from 75  MMcfe
per  day in 2000 to 88 MMcfe per day in 2001.  Based in Oklahoma City,
the  division's  activities  are focused in  the  Oklahoma  and  Texas
panhandles and in the deeper Anadarko Basin where in 2001 the division
drilled 152 wells replacing reserves by 142%.  Most notable for  2001,
the division expanded its successful Council Grove horizontal play  in
Texas  County,  Oklahoma, drilling more than 35  wells  to  date  that
average  1  billion cubic feet equivalent ("Bcfe") each.  In addition,
the  division  had numerous stratigraphic discoveries in  other  plays
such  as  the Morrow, Tonkawa, and Cherokee formations throughout  the
basin.

     Tyler,  Texas Division.  Key areas of production for the division
are  the Sabine Uplift Region, Upper Texas Coast, and Mississippi Salt
Basin.   During  2001,  the division drilled or  participated  in  128
wells.   Net  production for the division averaged  approximately  123
MMcf  per  day  of  natural gas and 4.7 MBbl per  day  of  crude  oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids in 2001.  The division acquired  an
additional  65,000  net  acres during 2001, mainly  in  the  Louisiana
Bossier play and in the horizontal Georgetown play.

     Corpus Christi, Texas Division.  The Corpus Christi Division  had
an  active  year  in  2001,  drilling  67  wells.   During  2001,  net
production for the division averaged approximately 150 MMcf per day of
natural  gas and 2.0 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and natural
gas liquids. The principal areas of activity are in the Frio trend  in
Matagorda  County,  the  Wilcox  trend  in  Duval  County,   and   the
Lobo/Roleta  trends  in Webb and Zapata Counties.   EOG  expects  that
drilling will continue to be strong through 2002 in Matagorda,  Duval,
Webb and Zapata counties.

     Pittsburgh,   Pennsylvania  Division.   In  2001,  the   division
completed  the acquisition of Energy Search, Inc., a small independent
exploration and production company with producing properties  in  Ohio
and  West  Virginia.  The acquisition added proved  reserves  and  300
additional drilling locations.  The division drilled 137 wells  during
2001  and expanded the land position for exploratory plays by  100,000
acres.   The  division  added  over 10,000  miles  of  two-dimensional
seismic.  Net average daily production grew from 10 MMcfe per  day  in
January of 2001 to over 19 MMcfe per day in December of 2001.   During
2002,  the division plans to fully implement the exploitation  of  its
development acreage and drill several exploratory wells.

     Houston,Texas/Offshore Division.  The Offshore  Division  focuses
on  the  Gulf  of  Mexico in Texas and Louisiana.  Two fields,  Eugene
Island  135  and Matagorda Island 623, account for over  half  of  the
division's  production.  During 2001, total daily production  averaged
approximately 100 MMcfe per day, a 10% increase over the 91 MMcfe  per
day  in  2000.   During 2001, the division drilled or participated  in
four  wildcats with a 75% success rate and two successful  development
wells.    The   division  entered  the  deep  water  play   in   2001,
participating in two wells and the Eastern Gulf lease sale.   EOG  was
apparent  high  bidder  on three tracts in that  sale,  two  of  which
received five bids each.

     Calgary, Canada Division. The Calgary Division is engaged in  the
exploration  for  and  the development, production  and  marketing  of
natural  gas,  crude  oil and natural gas liquids in  Western  Canada,
principally  in the Provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan  and  Manitoba.
EOG  is  also  carrying out exploration activities in several  onshore
frontier  Canadian basins in the Maritime Provinces and the  Northwest
Territories.





<PAGE>  3

     The   division   conducts  operations  through   EOG's   Canadian
subsidiary,  EOG  Resources  Canada Inc.,  from  offices  in  Calgary,
Alberta.   During  2001, the division was again  successful  with  its
strategy  of drilling a large number of shallow gas wells  in  Western
Canada,   increasing  its  reserve  base  and  production   potential.
Strategic property and small corporate acquisitions were also utilized
to  expand the shallow gas platform area in Southwest Saskatchewan and
Southeast Alberta. Division production during 2001 averaged 139  MMcfe
per  day  versus  146 MMcfe per day during 2000.  A record  1,037wells
were  drilled during 2001, most of which were shallow gas.  New  wells
coming  on  stream late in the year have increased December  2001  net
average  deliverability to 158 MMcfe per day.  Further new wells  will
be  coming  on stream during the first quarter of 2002.  Key producing
areas  were Sandhills, Blackfoot and Grande Prairie - Wapiti, as  well
as  new  shallow  gas  development projects in  Southeast  Alberta  at
Bindloss, Connorsville and Rattlesnake.

  Outside North America Operations

      EOG has producing operations offshore Trinidad and is evaluating
exploration,  exploitation and development opportunities  in  selected
other international areas.

      Trinidad.   In  November 1992, EOG was  awarded  a  95%  working
interest concession in the South East Coast Consortium ("SECC")  Block
offshore  Trinidad, encompassing three undeveloped  fields  previously
held  by  three government-owned energy companies.  The  Kiskadee  and
Ibis  fields  have  since  been  developed.   The  Oilbird  field  was
successfully  appraised by the drilling of two  wells  in  the  fourth
quarter  of  2001 and will be developed over the next few  years  with
production  scheduled for late 2003.  The Oilbird 2  well  encountered
380 feet of net pay and the Oilbird 3 well encountered 290 feet of net
pay.   Existing surplus processing and transportation capacity at  the
Pelican  field  facilities owned and operated by Trinidad  and  Tobago
government-owned companies is being used to process and transport  the
production.  Natural gas is being sold into the local market  under  a
take-or-pay  agreement with the National Gas Company of  Trinidad  and
Tobago.  In 2001, deliveries net to EOG averaged 115 MMcf per  day  of
natural gas and 2.1 MBbl per day of crude oil and condensate.

      In  1996,  EOG  signed a production sharing  contract  with  the
Government  of Trinidad and Tobago for the Modified U(a)  Block  where
EOG  holds  a 100% working interest. EOG drilled its first  commitment
well,  OA-1,  on this block in 1998.  This well encountered  over  500
feet  of  net pay. In the first quarter of 2001, EOG drilled the  OA-2
well  which encountered 305 feet of net pay and increased gross proved
reserves to a field total of 870 Bcfe.  In September 2001, EOG  set  a
platform and jacket in preparation for first production anticipated in
the  third  quarter of 2002. This field will supply  approximately  60
MMcf  per day under a 15-year natural gas supply contract to  a  1,850
metric  ton per day anhydrous ammonia plant which is being constructed
by  Caribbean Nitrogen Company Limited, a Trinidadian company in which
EOG  has  a 16% interest. The construction of the plant is anticipated
to be completed by the third quarter of 2002.

      In March 2002, EOG and certain subsidiaries participated in the
execution  of certain closing documents relating to the investment  of
one of the subsidiaries in a Trinidadian company named Nitrogen (2000)
Unlimited  which  plans  to  construct a  1,850  metric  ton  per  day
anhydrous  ammonia  plant similar to the plant mentioned  above.   EOG
owns   an  approximate  31%  interest  in  the  company.   The   other
shareholders  in  this  company  are subsidiaries  of  Ferrostall  AG,
Halliburton  and  CL Financial Ltd.  The total cost of  the  plant  is
estimated to be approximately $320 million of which approximately  72%
will be non-recourse debt and 28% equity.  EOG's equity investment  in
the  company is anticipated to be approximately $28 million.   EOG  is
expected  to  supply  approximately 60 MMcf per day  under  a  15-year
natural  gas  contract to the plant.  Assuming timely  regulatory  and
related approvals and other conditions for loan disbursement, the
construction of the plant is anticipated to  be completed by the fourth
quarter of 2004.

      In September 2001, EOG was the sole bidder for the Lower Reverse
"L"  Block  in  the  Trinidad  and Tobago  licensing  round.   EOG  is
currently in negotiation with the Ministry of Energy for the award  of
the block which is located adjacent to the SECC Block.

       At  December  31,  2001,  EOG  held  approximately  52,600  net
undeveloped acres in Trinidad.

      Other  International.  EOG continues to evaluate other  selected
conventional  natural  gas and crude oil opportunities  outside  North
America  primarily by pursuing exploitation opportunities in countries
where  indigenous  natural  gas  and  crude  oil  reserves  have  been
identified.



<PAGE>  4

Marketing

      Wellhead  Marketing.  EOG's North America wellhead  natural  gas
production is currently being sold on the spot market and under  long-
term  natural  gas  contracts at market-responsive  prices.   In  many
instances,  the  long-term  contract prices  closely  approximate  the
prices  received  for  natural gas being  sold  on  the  spot  market.
Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad are sold at prices that are
based on a fixed price schedule with annual escalations. Prior to  the
Share  Exchange  (as described in "Transactions with Enron  Corp."  on
page  8)  and under terms of the production sharing contracts, natural
gas volumes in India were sold to a nominee of the Government of India
at a price linked to a basket of world market fuel oil quotations with
floor and ceiling limits.

    Substantially  all of EOG's wellhead crude oil and  condensate  is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market-responsive prices.

      During 2001, sales to a major utility company accounted for  14%
of  EOG's  oil  and  gas  revenues.   No  other  individual  purchaser
accounted for 10% or more of EOG's oil and gas revenues for  the  same
period.   EOG  does not believe that the loss of any single  purchaser
will  have  a  material adverse effect on the financial  condition  or
results of operations of EOG.

      Other  Marketing.   EOG Resources Marketing,  Inc.  ("EOGM"),  a
wholly  owned  subsidiary of EOG, is a marketing company  engaging  in
various  marketing activities.  EOGM contracts to provide natural  gas
to  various  purchasers and then aggregates the necessary supplies for
the  sales  with purchases from various sources, including third-party
producers, marketing companies, pipelines or from EOG's own production
and  arranges for  any  necessary  transportation  to  the  points  of
delivery.  In  addition,  EOGM has purchased and  constructed  several
small gas gathering systems in order to facilitate its entry into  the
gas gathering business on a limited basis.




<PAGE>  5

Wellhead Volumes and Prices, and Lease and Well Expenses

      The  following  table  sets forth certain information  regarding
EOG's  wellhead  volumes of and average prices  for  natural  gas  per
thousand cubic feet ("Mcf"), crude oil and condensate, and natural gas
liquids  per  barrel ("Bbl"), and average lease and well expenses  per
thousand  cubic  feet equivalent ("Mcfe"-natural gas  equivalents  are
determined  using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of natural gas to  1.0  Bbl  of
crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids) delivered during each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001.

<TABLE>
                                                    Year Ended December 31,
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     2001     2000    1999
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<s>                                                <c>     <c>       <c>
 Natural Gas Volumes (MMcf per day)
  United States                                       680     654      654
  Canada                                              126     129      115
  Trinidad                                            115     125      123
  India(1)                                             -       -        46
    Total                                             921     908      938
 Crude Oil and Condensate Volumes (MBbl per day)
  United States                                      22.0    22.8     14.4
  Canada                                              1.7     2.1      2.6
  Trinidad                                            2.1     2.6      2.4
  India(1)                                             -       -       4.1
    Total                                            25.8    27.5     23.5
 Natural Gas Liquids Volumes (MBbl per day)
  United States                                       3.5     4.0      2.6
  Canada                                              0.5     0.7      0.8
    Total                                             4.0     4.7      3.4
 Average Natural Gas Prices ($/Mcf)
  United States                                    $ 4.26  $ 3.96   $ 2.20
  Canada                                             3.78    3.33     1.88
  Trinidad                                           1.22    1.17     1.08
  India(1)                                            -       -       2.09
    Composite                                        3.81    3.49     2.01
 Average Crude Oil and Condensate Prices ($/Bbl)
  United States                                   $ 25.06  $29.68   $18.55
  Canada                                            22.70   27.76    16.77
  Trinidad                                          24.14   30.14    16.21
  India(1)                                            -       -      12.80
    Composite                                       24.83   29.57    17.12
 Average Natural Gas Liquids Prices ($/Bbl)
  United States                                   $ 17.17  $20.45   $13.41
  Canada                                            15.05   16.75     8.23
    Composite                                       16.89   19.87    12.24
 Lease and Well Expenses ($/Mcfe)
  United States                                   $   .45  $  .35   $  .33
  Canada                                              .62     .52      .46
  Trinidad                                            .15     .16      .13
  India(1)                                            -       -        .35
    Composite                                         .44     .35      .33
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) See "Transactions with Enron Corp." regarding the Share Exchange Agreement
    on Page 8.
</TABLE>



<PAGE>  6

Competition

        EOG   actively   competes   for   reserve   acquisitions   and
exploration/exploitation leases, licenses and concessions,  frequently
against  companies  with  substantially  larger  financial  and  other
resources.  To the extent EOG's exploration budget is lower than  that
of certain of its competitors, EOG may be disadvantaged in effectively
competing  for  certain  reserves, leases, licenses  and  concessions.
Competitive  factors  include price, contract terms,  and  quality  of
service,   including  pipeline  connection  times   and   distribution
efficiencies.  In addition, EOG faces competition from other producers
and  suppliers,  including competition from other  world  wide  energy
supplies, such as natural gas from Canada.

Regulation

     United States Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production.
Natural gas and crude oil production operations are subject to various
types  of  regulation, including regulation in the  United  States  by
state and federal agencies.

      United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry  is
under  constant  review  for amendment or expansion.   Also,  numerous
departments  and agencies, both federal and state, are  authorized  by
statute  to  issue and have issued rules and regulations which,  among
other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate  the
spacing  of  wells,  prevent  the waste  of  natural  gas  and  liquid
hydrocarbon  resources through proration and restrictions on  flaring,
require  drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters.
The  regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its  cost
of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

      A  substantial portion of EOG's oil and gas leases  in  the  Big
Piney  area and in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas,
are  granted by the federal government and administered by the  Bureau
of  Land  Management  (the "BLM") and the Minerals Management  Service
(the  "MMS"), both federal agencies.  Operations conducted by  EOG  on
federal  oil  and gas leases must comply with numerous  statutory  and
regulatory  restrictions  concerning  the  above  and  other  matters.
Certain  operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate  permits
issued by the BLM and the MMS.

       BLM  and  MMS  leases  contain  relatively  standardized  terms
requiring  compliance with detailed regulations and, in  the  case  of
offshore leases, orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf  Lands
Act (which are subject to change by the MMS). Such offshore operations
are  subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including  the  need
for  prior  MMS approval for exploration, development, and  production
plans,   stringent   engineering   and   construction   specifications
applicable  to offshore production facilities, regulations restricting
the  flaring  or venting of production, and regulations governing  the
plugging  and  abandonment of offshore wells and the  removal  of  all
production  facilities.   Under certain  circumstances,  the  MMS  may
require  operations on federal leases to be suspended  or  terminated.
Any  such  suspension  or  termination could  adversely  affect  EOG's
interests.

      The  MMS  amended the regulations governing the  calculation  of
royalties and the valuation of crude oil produced from federal leases,
effective  June  1,  2000.   The  new  rules  modified  the  valuation
procedures  for  both  arm's-length  and  non-arm's-length  crude  oil
transactions  to decrease reliance on oil posted prices and  assign  a
value  to  crude oil that, in the opinion of MMS, better reflects  its
market  value.   Two industry trade associations have sought  judicial
review of the new rules in federal district court.  EOG cannot predict
what  effect the outcome of the litigation will be or what effect,  if
any, it will have on EOG's operations.

      In  March 2000, a federal district court vacated MMS regulations
which  sought  to  clarify  the types of  costs  that  are  deductible
transportation costs for purposes of royalty valuation  of  production
sold  off the lease.  In particular, MMS disallowed deduction of costs
associated  with marketer fees, cash out and other pipeline  imbalance
penalties, or long-term storage fees.  The United States has  appealed
the district court ruling.  EOG cannot predict what the outcome of the
appeal  will  be  or  what  effect, if any,  it  will  have  on  EOG's
operations.

     Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by EOG are
made at unregulated market prices.

      The  transportation  and  sale for  resale  of  natural  gas  in
interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas  Act  of
1938  (the "NGA") and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA").
These  statutes  are  administered by the  Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission  (the "FERC").  Effective January 1, 1993, the Natural  Gas
Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for  all
"first  sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of  its
own  production.  All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those
of  natural  gas  purchased from third parties, remain  jurisdictional
sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which  has
flexible  terms and conditions.  Consequently, all of EOG's  sales  of
natural  gas  currently  may  be made at  market  prices,  subject  to
applicable contract provisions.  EOG's jurisdictional sales,  however,
are





<PAGE>  7

subject  to the future possibility of greater federal  oversight,
including  the  possibility the FERC might prospectively  impose  more
restrictive conditions on such sales.

      Since  1985,  the FERC has endeavored to enhance competition  in
natural  gas  markets  by  making  natural  gas  transportation   more
accessible  to  natural  gas  buyers  and  sellers  on  an  open   and
nondiscriminatory basis.  These efforts culminated in  Order  No.  636
and  various  rehearing  orders ("Order No.  636"),  which  mandate  a
fundamental restructuring of interstate natural gas pipeline sales and
transportation  services,  including the  "unbundling"  by  interstate
natural gas pipelines of the sales, transportation, storage, and other
components  of  their service, and to separately state the  rates  for
each  unbundled  service.  Order No. 636 does  not  directly  regulate
EOG's  activities,  but has an indirect effect because  of  its  broad
scope.  Order No. 636 has ended interstate pipelines' traditional role
as wholesalers of natural gas, and substantially increased competition
in  natural gas markets.  In spite of this uncertainty, Order No.  636
may  enhance  EOG's ability to market and transport  its  natural  gas
production,  although  it  may also subject EOG  to  more  restrictive
pipeline  imbalance tolerances and greater penalties for violation  of
such tolerances.

      EOG  owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines
that  it  believes  meet the traditional tests the FERC  has  used  to
establish  a  pipeline's  status as a gatherer  not  subject  to  FERC
jurisdiction under the NGA.  State regulation of gathering  facilities
generally  includes  various  safety,  environmental,  and   in   some
circumstances,  nondiscriminatory  take  requirements,  but  does  not
generally  entail rate regulation.  Natural gas gathering may  receive
greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels as  a
result  of  pipeline restructuring under Order No. 636.  For  example,
the  Texas Railroad Commission has approved changes to its regulations
governing   transportation  and  gathering   services   performed   by
intrastate pipelines and gatherers, which prohibit such entities  from
unduly  discriminating in favor of their affiliates.  EOG's  gathering
operations could be adversely affected should they be subject  in  the
future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates  and
services.

      EOG's  natural gas gathering operations also may  be  or  become
subject  to safety and operational regulations relating to the design,
installation,  testing,  construction,  operation,  replacement,   and
management of facilities.  Additional rules and legislation pertaining
to  these  matters are considered or adopted from time to  time.   EOG
cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its
operations,  but  the industry could be required to  incur  additional
capital   expenditures  and  increased  costs  depending   on   future
legislative and regulatory changes.

      The  FERC  recently  began a broad review of its  transportation
regulations,  including  how they operate in  conjunction  with  state
proposals for retail gas marketing restructuring, whether to eliminate
cost-of-service  rates  for  short-term  transportation,  whether   to
allocate all short-term capacity on the basis of competitive auctions,
and  whether changes to its long-term transportation policies may also
be appropriate to alleviate a market bias toward short-term contracts.
This  review culminated in part with the FERC's issuance of Order  No.
637 on February 9, 2000.

     Order No. 637 revises the FERC's current regulatory framework for
purposes  of  improving  the efficiency of the  market  and  providing
captive  pipeline customers with the opportunity to reduce their  cost
of  holding  long-term pipeline capacity while continuing  to  protect
against  the  exercise of market power.  Order No.  637  revises  FERC
pricing  policy  by  waiving price ceilings  for  short-term  released
capacity  for a two-year period and permitting pipelines to  file  for
peak/off-peak and term differentiated rate structures.  Order No.  637
does  not, however, require the allocation of all short-term  capacity
on  the  basis  of competitive auctions--as had been proposed  by  the
FERC.  Order  No.  637  adopts  changes  in  regulations  relating  to
scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation and pipeline penalties to
improve  the competitiveness and efficiency of the interstate pipeline
grid.   It also narrows pipeline customers' right of first refusal  to
remove  economic  biases in the current rule, while  still  protecting
captive  customers'  ability  to resubscribe  to  long-term  capacity.
Finally, it improves the FERC's reporting requirements to provide more
transparent  pricing information and permit more effective  monitoring
of  the  market.  Appeals of Order No. 637 are pending  court  review.
EOG  cannot  predict what the outcome of that review will be  or  what
effect it will have on EOG's operations.

      While  Order No. 637, and any subsequent FERC action will affect
EOG  only indirectly, the Order and related inquiries are intended  to
further  enhance competition in natural gas markets, while maintaining
adequate consumer protections.

      EOG  cannot  predict the effect that any of  the  aforementioned
orders or the challenges to such orders will ultimately have on  EOG's
operations.   Additional proposals and proceedings that  might  affect
the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress,
the  FERC and the courts. EOG cannot predict when or whether any  such
proposals  or  proceedings may become effective.  It  should  also  be
noted that the natural gas industry historically has been very heavily
regulated;  therefore, there is no assurance that the  less  regulated
approach   currently   being  pursued  by  the  FERC   will   continue
indefinitely.



<PAGE>  8

      Environmental Regulation.  Various federal, state and local laws
and   regulations  covering  the  discharge  of  materials  into   the
environment,   or  otherwise  relating  to  the  protection   of   the
environment,  affect EOG's operations and costs as a result  of  their
effect  on  natural  gas  and crude oil exploration,  development  and
production  operations  and could cause EOG to  incur  remediation  or
other  corrective  action  costs  in  connection  with  a  release  of
regulated  substances, including crude oil, into the environment.   In
addition,  EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from  third
parties  whose actions with respect to the management and disposal  or
release  of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.
Under  environmental laws and regulations, EOG could  be  required  to
remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners  or
operators.  Compliance with such laws and regulations increases  EOG's
overall cost of business, but has not had a material adverse effect on
EOG's  operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based
on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near
future  to  expend amounts that are material in relation to its  total
exploration  and  development expenditure program in order  to  comply
with  each environmental law and regulation, but inasmuch as such laws
and  regulations are frequently changed, EOG is unable to predict  the
ultimate  cost of compliance.  EOG also could incur costs  related  to
the  clean  up  of  sites  to which it sent regulated  substances  for
disposal and for damages to natural resources or other claims  related
to  releases  of regulated substances at such sites.  In this  regard,
EOG  has  been  named as a potentially responsible  party  in  certain
proceedings  initiated  pursuant  to the  Comprehensive  Environmental
Response,  Compensation, and Liability Act  and  may  be  named  as  a
potentially  responsible  party in other similar  proceedings  in  the
future.   It  is  not anticipated that the costs incurred  by  EOG  in
connection  with the presently pending proceedings will,  individually
or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the financial
condition or results of operations of EOG.

      Canadian  Regulation.   In  Canada, the  petroleum  industry  is
subject  to  extensive controls and operates under various  provincial
and   federal  legislation  and  regulations  governing  land  tenure,
royalties,    taxes,   production   rates,   operational    standards,
environmental  protection,  health  and  safety,  exports  and   other
matters.   EOG operates within this regulatory framework and continues
to  monitor  and  evaluate the impact of the  regulatory  regime  when
determining  parameters  for engaging in oil and  gas  activities  and
investments  in  Canada.  The price of natural gas and  crude  oil  in
Canada has been deregulated and is determined by market conditions and
negotiations  between  buyers and sellers in a North  American  market
place.   The North American Free Trade Agreement supports the on-going
cross-border commercial transactions of the natural gas and crude  oil
business.

      Various  matters relating to the transportation  and  export  of
natural  gas  continue  to  be  subject to  regulation  by  provincial
agencies  and  federally, by the National Energy Board;  however,  the
North  American  Free  Trade Agreement may have reduced  the  risk  of
altering  existing  cross-border commercial transactions  through  the
assurance  of  fair  implementation  of  regulatory  changes,  minimal
disruption   of  contractual  arrangements  and  the  prohibition   of
discriminatory order restrictions and export taxes.

      Canadian governmental regulations may have a material effect  on
the  economic  parameters for engaging in oil and  gas  activities  in
Canada  and  may  have  a  material  effect  on  the  advisability  of
investments  in  Canadian  oil  and gas drilling  activities.  EOG  is
monitoring political, regulatory and economic developments in Canada.

     Other International Regulation.  EOG's exploration and production
operations  outside  North America are subject  to  various  types  of
regulations imposed by the respective governments of the countries  in
which  EOG's operations are conducted, and may affect EOG's operations
and  costs within that country.  EOG currently has operations offshore
Trinidad.

Transactions with Enron Corp.

     Enron  Corp.  Bankruptcy.   In December  2001,  Enron  Corp.  and
certain of its affiliates, including Enron North America Corp.,  filed
voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the  United
States  Bankruptcy  Code.   EOG  recorded  $19.2  million  in  charges
associated with the Enron bankruptcies in the fourth quarter  of  2001
related to certain contracts with Enron affiliates, including 2001 and
2002  natural gas and crude oil derivative contracts.  EOG  has  other
contractual  relationships  with  Enron  Corp.  and  certain  of   its
affiliates.   Based  on  EOG's  review of  these  other  matters,  EOG
believes  that Enron Corp.'s Chapter 11 proceedings will  not  have  a
material adverse effect on EOG's financial position.

     Share  Exchange.  On August 16, 1999, EOG and Enron Corp.  closed
the  Share Exchange Agreement in which EOG acquired 62,270,000  shares
of  EOG's common stock out of 82,270,000 shares owned by Enron  Corp.,
and  in  return  Enron Corp. received all of the stock of  EOGI-India,
Inc., a subsidiary of EOG ("Share Exchange").  EOGI-India, Inc. owned,
through subsidiaries, all of EOG's assets and operations in India  and
China, and had received from EOG an indirect $600 million cash capital
contribution,  plus  certain intercompany receivables,  prior  to  the
Share  Exchange. EOG recognized a $575 million tax-free  gain  on  the
Share Exchange based on the fair value of the shares received, net  of
transaction  fees  of  $14  million.  On  the  closing  of  the  Share
Exchange, all of Enron Corp.'s officers and directors then serving  as
EOG directors resigned from EOG's board.




<PAGE>  9

      Immediately  prior to the closing of the Share  Exchange,  Enron
Corp.  owned  82,270,000  shares of EOG's common  stock,  representing
approximately 53.5 percent of all of the shares of EOG's common  stock
that  were issued and outstanding. As a result of the closing  of  the
Share  Exchange, the sale by Enron Corp. of 8,500,000 shares of  EOG's
common  stock as a selling stockholder in a public offering  in  which
EOG  also  sold  27,000,000  shares  of  its  common  stock,  and  the
completion  on August 17, 1999 and August 20, 1999 of the offering  of
Enron  Corp. notes mandatorily exchangeable at maturity into a minimum
of  9,746,250  up  to a maximum of 11,500,000 shares of  EOG's  common
stock,  Enron  Corp's  maximum remaining interest  in  EOG  after  the
automatic conversion of its notes on July 31, 2002, will be under  two
percent (assuming the notes are exchanged for less than the 11,500,000
shares  of  EOG's  common  stock).   As  a  result  of  Enron  Corp.'s
bankruptcy  filing and because the Enron Corp. notes  were  unsecured,
EOG believes it is unlikely that they will be exchanged for the shares
of  EOG's common stock.  The entire 11,500,000 shares of EOG's  common
stock  are  included  in EOG's outstanding common  share  count.   Two
entities  not affiliated with Enron Corp. have recently filed Schedule
13Gs with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to these
shares.

Other Matters

      Energy Prices.  Since EOG is primarily a natural gas company, it
is  more significantly impacted by changes in natural gas prices  than
in  the  prices  for  crude oil, condensate or  natural  gas  liquids.
Average North America wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated,  at
times  rather  dramatically,  during  the  last  three  years.   These
fluctuations  resulted  in  a 11% increase  in  the  average  wellhead
natural gas price for North America received by EOG from 1998 to 1999,
an  increase of 80% from 1999 to 2000, and an increase of 9% from 2000
to  2001.   Wellhead  natural gas volumes from Trinidad  are  sold  at
prices  that  are  based on a fixed schedule with annual  escalations.
Substantially all of EOG's wellhead crude oil and condensate  is  sold
under  various  terms  and arrangements at market  responsive  prices.
Crude  oil and condensate prices also have fluctuated during the  last
three  years.  Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world
political  environment, the availabilities of other world wide  energy
supplies  and  the relative competitive relationships of  the  various
energy sources in the view of consumers, EOG is unable to predict what
changes  may occur in natural gas, crude oil and condensate prices  in
the future.

     Risk Management.  EOG engages in price risk management activities
from  time  to  time.  These activities are intended to  manage  EOG's
exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices for natural gas and crude
oil.   EOG utilizes derivative financial instruments, primarily  price
swaps  and costless collars, and fixed price physical contracts  as  a
means to manage this price risk.

      The  following  is  a summary of EOG's price swap  and  physical
contract positions at March 18, 2002:

     (a)  2002 Price Swap Positions

          o  Natural Gas Price Swaps - Tabulated below is a summary of
             EOG's 2002 natural gas price swap positions with prices
             expressed in dollars per million British thermal units
             ($/MMBtu) and notional volumes in million British thermal
             units per day (MMBtud).  EOG accounts for these swap
             contracts under mark-to-market accounting.

                                            Average Price     Volume
                       2002                  ($/MMBtu)       (MMBtud)
              ---------------------         -------------    --------
              January (closed)                 $ 3.21        140,000
              February (closed)                $ 3.13        190,000
              March (closed)                   $ 3.13        140,000
              April and May                    $ 2.74        390,000
              June                             $ 2.84        300,000
              July through December            $ 3.26        100,000

          o  Crude Oil Price Swaps - Notional volumes of two thousand
             barrels of oil per day for the period March 2002 to December
             2002 at an average price of $21.50 per barrel.  EOG accounts
             for these swap contracts under mark-to-market accounting.




<PAGE>  10

     (b)  2002 Natural Gas Physical Contracts

          EOG  had  2002  natural  gas physical contracts  for  95,000
          MMBtud  at  an average price of $3.03 per MMBtu for  January
          and  February  2002  in the U.S.  In Canada,  EOG  has  2002
          natural  gas  physical  contracts for  approximately  24,000
          MMBtud  at  an  average price of US$3.35 per MMBtu  for  the
          period  of January through March 2002, approximately  34,000
          MMBtud  at  an  average price of US$3.19 per MMBtu  for  the
          period  of April through June 2002, and approximately 24,000
          MMBtud  at  an  average price of US$3.35 per MMBtu  for  the
          period of July through December 2002.

     At December 31, 2001, based on EOG's tax position and the portion
of  EOG's  anticipated natural gas volumes for 2001 for  which  prices
have  not, in effect, been hedged using NYMEX-related commodity market
transactions   and   long-term  marketing   contracts,   EOG's   price
sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf change in average wellhead  natural
gas  prices is $15 million (or $0.13 per share) for net income and $23
million  for  current operating cash flow.  EOG  is  not  impacted  as
significantly  by  changing crude oil prices  for  those  volumes  not
otherwise  hedged.  EOG's price sensitivity for each $1.00 per  barrel
change  in  average wellhead crude oil prices is $5 million (or  $0.04
per  share)  for net income and $8 million for current operating  cash
flow.

      Tight  Gas  Sand  Tax  Credits (Section 29)  and  Severance  Tax
Exemption.   United States federal tax law provides a tax  credit  for
production  of  certain  fuels produced from  nonconventional  sources
(including natural gas produced from tight formations), subject  to  a
number  of  limitations.   Fuels qualifying for  the  credit  must  be
produced  from  a well drilled or a facility placed in  service  after
November  5, 1990 and before January 1, 1993, and must be sold  before
January 1, 2003.

      The  credit, which is currently approximately $.52  per  million
British thermal unit of natural gas, is computed by reference  to  the
price  of  crude  oil, and is phased out as the  price  of  crude  oil
exceeds  $23.50 in 1980 dollars (adjusted for inflation) with complete
phaseout  if  such  price  exceeds $29.50 in 1980  dollars  (similarly
adjusted).  Under this formula, the commencement of phaseout would  be
triggered  if the average price for crude oil rose above approximately
$48  per barrel in current dollars.  Significant benefits from the tax
credit have accrued and continue to accrue to EOG since a portion (and
in  some  cases a substantial portion) of EOG's natural gas production
from  new wells drilled after November 5, 1990, and before January  1,
1993,  on EOG's leases in several of EOG's significant producing areas
qualify  for  this  tax credit.  In 1999 and 2000,  EOG  entered  into
arrangements  with  a third party whereby certain Section  29  credits
were  sold  by  EOG to the third party, and payments for such  credits
will be received on an as-generated basis.

      Natural gas production from wells spudded or completed after May
24,  1989  and before September 1, 1996 in tight formations  in  Texas
qualifies  for a ten-year exemption from severance taxes,  subject  to
certain limitations, during the period beginning September 1, 1991 and
ending  August  31,  2001.  In addition, natural gas  production  from
qualifying wells spudded or completed after August 31, 1996 and before
September 1, 2010 is entitled to use of a reduced severance tax  rate.
However,  the cumulative value of the tax reduction cannot  exceed  50
percent  of the drilling and completion costs incurred on  a  well  by
well basis.

      Other.   All  of EOG's natural gas and crude oil activities  are
subject  to  the  risks normally incident to the exploration  for  and
development  and  production of natural gas and crude  oil,  including
blowouts, cratering and fires, each of which could result in damage to
life  and  property.  Offshore operations are subject to usual  marine
perils,  including  hurricanes and other adverse  weather  conditions.
EOG's activities are also subject to governmental regulations as  well
as  interruption or termination by governmental authorities  based  on
environmental and other considerations.  In accordance with  customary
industry  practices, insurance is maintained by EOG against some,  but
not  all,  of  the  risks.  Losses and liabilities arising  from  such
events  could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG to the  extent
not covered by insurance.

      EOG's operations outside of North America are subject to certain
risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in  taxes
and  government  royalties, renegotiation of  contracts  with  foreign
governments,   political  instability,  payment  delays,   limits   on
allowable  levels of production and currency exchange and repatriation
losses, as well as changes in laws, regulations and policies governing
operations of foreign companies generally.





<PAGE>  11

Current Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The  current executive officers of EOG and their names and  ages
are as follows:

       Name                Age                Position
---------------------     -----  -------------------------------------

Mark  G.  Papa             55    Chairman of the  Board  and  Chief
                                  Executive Officer; Director

Edmund P. Segner, III      48    President and Chief of Staff; Director

Loren  M. Leiker           48    Executive Vice President, Exploration
                                  and Development

Gary  L.  Thomas           52    Executive  Vice  President,  North
                                  America Operations

Barry  Hunsaker,  Jr.      51    Senior Vice President  and  General
                                  Counsel

Timothy  K. Driggers       40    Vice President, Accounting and Land
                                  Administration

David R. Looney            45    Vice President, Finance

      Mark  G.  Papa  was  elected Chairman of  the  Board  and  Chief
Executive  Officer  in  August  1999, President  and  Chief  Executive
Officer  and  Director of EOG in September 1998, President  and  Chief
Operating  Officer in September 1997, President in December  1996  and
was President-North America Operations from February 1994 to September
1998.   Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor  of
EOG, in 1981.

      Edmund  P. Segner, III became President and Chief of  Staff  and
Director  of EOG in August 1999. He became Vice Chairman and Chief  of
Staff of EOG in September 1997. Mr. Segner was a director of EOG  from
January  1997 to October 1997. Prior to joining EOG, Mr.  Segner  held
various  managerial positions with EOG's former majority  shareholder,
Enron Corp.

      Loren  M.  Leiker  joined  EOG in  April  1989  as  Senior  Vice
President,  Exploration.  He  was elected  Executive  Vice  President,
Exploration in May 1998 and Executive Vice President, Exploration  and
Development in February 2000.

      Gary  L.  Thomas  was  elected Executive Vice  President,  North
America  Operations  in  May  1998.  He  was  previously  Senior  Vice
President  and General Manager of EOG's Midland Division.  Mr.  Thomas
joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.

      Barry  Hunsaker, Jr. has been Senior Vice President and  General
Counsel since he joined EOG in May 1996.

      Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Controller of
EOG  in  October  1999  and  was subsequently  named  Vice  President,
Accounting  and Land Administration. He held a management position  in
Enron   Corp.'s  accounting  department  from  October  1998   through
September  1999.  Mr.  Driggers  held  management  positions  in   the
Financial  Planning and Reporting Department of EOG from  August  1995
through September 1998.

      David  R. Looney was elected Vice President, Finance of  EOG  in
August  1999.  He joined EOG as Assistant Treasurer in February  1998.
Prior to joining EOG, Mr. Looney spent over 17 years in the commercial
banking  industry,  specializing in capital  formation  for  companies
involved in the energy industry.

      There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and
there  are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any  of
them  were  elected  as officers.  Officers are appointed  or  elected
annually by the Board of Directors at its first meeting prior  to  the
Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders,  each  to  hold  office  until  the
corresponding  meeting  of  the Board in the  next  year  or  until  a
successor shall have been elected, appointed or shall have qualified.




<PAGE>  12

ITEM 2.  Properties

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Properties and Reserves

      Reserve  Information.  For estimates of  EOG's  net  proved  and
proved developed reserves of natural gas and liquids, including  crude
oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, see "Supplemental Information
to  Consolidated  Financial Statements"  in  the  Form  8-K  filed  on
February 28, 2002.

       There   are   numerous  uncertainties  inherent  in  estimating
quantities  of  proved  reserves and in  projecting  future  rates  of
production  and  timing  of development expenditures,  including  many
factors  beyond  the control of the producer.  The  reserve  data  set
forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements
represent only estimates.  Reserve engineering is a subjective process
of  estimating underground accumulations of natural gas  and  liquids,
including  crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, that  cannot
be  measured in an exact manner.  The accuracy of any reserve estimate
is  a  function  of the amount and quality of available  data  and  of
engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.  As a  result,
estimates  of different engineers normally vary. In addition,  results
of  drilling,  testing and production subsequent to  the  date  of  an
estimate may justify revision of such estimate.  Accordingly,  reserve
estimates   are   often  different  from  the  quantities   ultimately
recovered.   The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly  dependent
upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.

      In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties
owned  by EOG declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the  extent
EOG  acquires  additional  properties containing  proved  reserves  or
conducts   successful   exploration,  exploitation   and   development
activities,  the proved reserves of EOG will decline as  reserves  are
produced.   Volumes  generated  from  future  activities  of  EOG  are
therefore  highly dependent upon the level of success  in  finding  or
acquiring  additional  reserves and the costs incurred  in  so  doing.
EOG's  estimates of reserves filed with other federal  agencies  agree
with  the  information  set  forth  in  Supplemental  Information   to
Consolidated Financial Statements.




<PAGE>  13


      Acreage.   The  following table summarizes EOG's  developed
and undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2001.  Excluded is acreage in
which EOG's  interest  is limited to owned royalty, overriding  royalty
and other similar interests.

<TABLE>
                                           Developed                Undeveloped                  Total
                                     ----------------------   -------------------------   -----------------------
                                         Gross       Net         Gross          Net         Gross         Net
                                     ----------  ----------   -----------   -----------   ----------   ----------
<s>                                 <c>         <c>          <c>           <c>           <c>          <c>
United States
 Texas...........................      463,980     280,860       751,115      636,792     1,215,095      917,652
 Wyoming.........................      293,332     181,511       603,359      341,542       896,691      523,053
 Oklahoma........................      172,131     107,882       179,425      136,797       351,556      244,679
 Montana.........................      119,566         630       284,920      229,661       404,486      230,291
 New Mexico......................      144,064      80,605       246,688      143,060       390,752      223,665
 Offshore Gulf of Mexico.........      287,474      78,901       215,412      124,451       502,886      203,352
 Utah............................      217,447      76,572       201,634      119,326       419,081      195,898
 Pennsylvania....................       67,637      67,637        82,500       82,500       150,137      150,137
 California......................        2,736       1,626       110,287       99,902       113,023      101,528
 New York........................          -           -          87,981       77,547        87,981       77,547
 South Dakota....................          -           -          52,238       52,238        52,238       52,238
 Mississippi.....................        9,711       9,390        35,783       33,700        45,494       43,090
 Colorado........................       24,884       1,425       113,058       39,641       137,942       41,066
 Louisiana.......................       11,645       9,415        36,263       27,670        47,908       37,085
 Kansas..........................       13,533      11,991        28,292       24,836        41,825       36,827
 Ohio............................        9,761       7,330        22,190       22,169        31,951       29,499
 North Dakota....................        3,854       1,659        18,447       18,274        22,301       19,933
 Michigan........................          -           -          22,697       11,349        22,697       11,349
 West Virginia...................          240         -           7,411        7,329         7,651        7,329
 Arkansas........................        1,434         427         1,483          638         2,917        1,065
 Alabama.........................          -           -             212          193           212          193
                                     ---------  ----------     ---------    ---------     ---------    ---------
    Total United States..........    1,843,429     917,861     3,101,395    2,229,615     4,944,824    3,147,476
Canada
 Saskatchewan....................      352,425     327,488       137,018      133,858       489,443      461,346
 Alberta.........................      619,699     423,944       405,128      338,234     1,024,827      762,178
 Manitoba........................       11,874      10,492        56,924       56,604        68,798       67,096
 British Columbia................          656         164        14,334        7,221        14,990        7,385
 Northwest Territories...........          -           -         806,328      224,312       806,328      224,312
                                     ---------   ---------     ---------    ---------     ---------    ---------
   Total  Canada.................      984,654     762,088     1,419,732      760,229     2,404,386    1,522,317
Other International
 Trinidad........................       41,926      40,740        55,335       52,568        97,261       93,308
 France..........................          -           -         168,032      168,032       168,032      168,032
                                     ---------   ---------     ---------    ---------     ---------    ---------
   Total Other International.....       41,926      40,740       223,367      220,600       265,293      261,340
                                     ---------   ---------     ---------    ---------     ---------    ---------
   Total.........................    2,870,009   1,720,689     4,744,494    3,210,444     7,614,503    4,931,133
                                     =========   =========     =========    =========     =========    =========
</TABLE>





      Producing  Well  Summary.  The following  table  reflects  EOG's
ownership  in gas and oil wells located in Texas, the Gulf of  Mexico,
Oklahoma,  New Mexico, Utah, Pennsylvania, Wyoming, and various  other
states,  Canada and Trinidad at December 31, 2001. Gross gas  and  oil
wells include 546 with multiple completions.
<TABLE>
                                                     Productive Wells
                                                    ------------------
                                                     Gross      Net
                                                    --------  --------
    <s>                                             <c>        <c>

     Gas.......................................      10,525     7,771
     Oil.......................................       1,470     1,215
                                                    -------    ------
         Total.................................      11,995     8,986
                                                    =======    ======
</TABLE>







<PAGE>  14


<TABLE>

      Drilling  and  Acquisition Activities.  During the  years  ended December  31,  2001,  2000,  and 1999
EOG spent  approximately  $1,163 million,  $710 million and $461 million, respectively, for exploratory and
development drilling and acquisition  of  leases  and  producing properties.  EOG drilled, participated in
the drilling of or  acquired wells as set out in the table below for the periods indicated:


                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                 ------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        2001                 2000                1999
                                                 ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
                                                  Gross       Net      Gross       Net      Gross      Net
                                                 -------   --------   -------   --------   -------   --------
<s>                                              <c>      <c>         <c>      <c>         <c>      <c>
Development Wells Completed
 North America
  Gas.....................................        1,550    1,311.86       743     611.93      613     515.64
  Oil.....................................          124      107.06        93      83.46       53      52.02
  Dry.....................................           95       81.68        51      44.03       68      58.43
                                                 ------    --------    ------   --------    -----    -------
     Total................................        1,769    1,500.60       887     739.42      734     626.09
 Outside North America
  Gas.....................................            3        2.90       -          -          6       2.00
  Oil.....................................          -          -          -          -          6       1.90
  Dry.....................................          -           -         -          -         -        -
                                                 ------    --------    ------   --------    ------   -------
    Total.................................            3        2.90       -          -          12      3.90
                                                 ------    --------    ------   --------    ------   -------
 Total  Development.......................        1,772    1,503.50       887     739.42       746    629.99
                                                 ------    --------    ------   --------    ------   -------
Exploratory Wells Completed
 North America
  Gas.....................................           24       18.38        19      11.85        21     14.57
  Oil.....................................           10        7.10         4       4.00         2      2.00
  Dry.....................................           29       23.05        26      20.00        19     14.55
                                                 ------    --------    ------   --------    ------   -------
    Total.................................           63       48.53        49      35.85        42     31.12

 Outside North America
  Gas.....................................          -           -         -           -          1      0.30
  Oil.....................................          -           -         -           -        -         -
  Dry.....................................            1        0.25         1        1.00        1      1.00
                                                 ------    --------    ------    --------   ------   -------
    Total.................................            1        0.25         1        1.00        2      1.30
                                                 ------    --------    ------    --------   ------   -------
  Total Exploratory.......................           64       48.78        50       36.85       44     32.42
                                                 ------    --------    ------    --------   ------   -------
     Total................................        1,836    1,552.28       937      776.27      790    662.41
Wells in Progress at end of period........           71       59.04        46       40.19       25     21.34
                                                 ------    --------    ------    --------   ------   -------
     Total................................        1,907    1,611.32       983      816.46      815    683.75
                                                 ======    ========    ======    ========   ======   =======
Wells Acquired*
  Gas.....................................        1,089      981.53     1,315      985.37      576    380.01
  Oil.....................................           53       51.04       168      120.70      422    402.34
                                                 ------    --------    ------    --------   ------   -------
      Total...............................        1,142    1,032.57     1,483    1,106.07      998    782.35
                                                 ======    ========    ======    ========   ======   =======
-----------------------------

*Includes the acquisition of additional interests in certain wells in which EOG previously
 owned an interest.


      All  of  EOG's drilling activities are conducted on  a  contract basis  with  independent
drilling contractors.  EOG  owns  no  drilling equipment.

</TABLE>






<PAGE>  15

ITEM 3.  Legal Proceedings

      The  information  required  by  this  item  is  incorporated  by
reference  from  the  Contingencies section in  Note  7  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in the Form 8-K  filed  on
February 28, 2002.


ITEM 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      There  were  no matters submitted to a vote of security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 2001.


                               PART II

ITEM 5.  Market  for  the  Registrant's Common  Equity  and  Related
Shareholder Matters

      The  following table sets forth, for the periods indicated,  the
high  and low sales prices per share for the common stock of  EOG,  as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, and the amount
of cash dividends declared per share.

                             Price Range
                        ---------------------          Cash
                         High           Low          Dividend
                        ------        -------        --------
2000
----
     First Quarter      $24.06         $13.69         $0.030
     Second Quarter      34.88          21.75          0.035
     Third Quarter       40.88          26.69          0.035
     Fourth Quarter      56.69          35.31          0.035

2001
----
     First Quarter      $55.50         $39.30         $0.035
     Second Quarter      49.86          34.91          0.040
     Third Quarter       36.99          25.80          0.040
     Fourth Quarter      39.66          27.65          0.040


     As of March 11, 2002, there were approximately 370 record holders
of  EOG's  common stock, including individual participants in security
position listings. There are an estimated 57,700 beneficial owners  of
EOG's common stock, including shares held in street name.

     EOG currently intends to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends
on  its outstanding shares of common stock. However, the determination
of  the  amount of future cash dividends, if any, to be  declared  and
paid  will  depend upon, among other things, the financial  condition,
funds   from  operations,  level  of  exploration,  exploitation   and
development expenditure opportunities and future business prospects of
EOG.

      On December 5, 2001, EOG's indirect, wholly owned subsidiary EOG
Company of Canada issued $120,000,000 principal amount of 7.00% Senior
Notes due 2011 which were fully and unconditionally guaranteed by  EOG
(the  "Senior Notes") to Salomon Smith Barney Inc., Banc  One  Capital
Markets, Inc., Deutsche Bank Alex. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and  TD
Securities (USA) Inc., as initial purchasers, for resale to "qualified
institutional buyers" as defined in Rule 144A of the Securities Act of
1933, and outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S of
the  Securities  Act  of 1933.  The aggregate offering  price  of  the
Senior  Notes  was  $118,875,600  and  the  aggregate  commission  was
$780,000.




<PAGE>  16


ITEM 6.  Selected Financial Data
<TABLE>

                                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                         -------------------------------------------------------------
(In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)                     2001        2000        1999        1998        1997
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<c>                                                     <c>          <c>          <c>         <c>         <c>
Statement of Income Data:
Net  operating  revenues..............................   $1,654,887   $1,489,895   $ 842,099   $ 808,252   $ 820,451
Operating expenses
  Lease and well......................................      175,446      140,915     132,233     137,932     133,014
  Exploration costs...................................       67,467       67,196      52,773      65,940      57,696
  Dry hole costs......................................       71,360       17,337      11,893      22,751      17,303
  Impairments.........................................       79,156       46,478     161,817(1)   32,904      34,542
  Depreciation, depletion and amortization............      392,399      359,265     329,668     314,278     270,850
  General and administrative..........................       79,963       66,932      82,857      69,010      54,415
  Taxes other than income.............................       95,333       94,909      52,670      51,776      59,856
  Charges associated with Enron bankruptcy............       19,211          -           -           -           -
                                                         -------------------------------------------------------------
  Total...............................................      980,335      793,032     823,911     694,591     627,676
                                                         -------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Income......................................      674,552      696,863      18,188     113,661     192,775
Other income (expense), net...........................        2,003       (2,300)    611,343(2)   (4,800)     (1,588)
Interest expense (net of interest capitalized)........       45,110       61,006      61,819      48,579      27,717
                                                         -------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes............................      631,445      633,557     567,712      60,282     163,470
Income tax provision (benefit)(3).....................      232,829      236,626      (1,382)      4,111(4)   41,500(5)
                                                         -------------------------------------------------------------
Net income............................................      398,616      396,931     569,094      56,171     121,970
Preferred stock dividends.............................       10,994       11,028         535         -           -
                                                         -------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available to common........................   $  387,622   $  385,903   $ 568,559   $  56,171   $ 121,970
                                                         =============================================================
Net income per share available to common
  Basic...............................................   $     3.35   $     3.30   $    4.04   $    0.36   $    0.78
                                                         =============================================================
  Diluted.............................................   $     3.30   $     3.24   $    4.01   $    0.36   $    0.77
                                                         =============================================================
Average number of common shares
  Basic...............................................      115,765      116,934     140,648     154,002     157,092
                                                         =============================================================
  Diluted.............................................      117,488      119,102     141,627     154,573     157,663
                                                         =============================================================

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
                                                                                   At  December 31,
                                                        ---------------------------------------------------------------
(In Thousands)                                              2001        2000         1999         1998         1997
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<s>                                                    <c>          <c>          <c>          <c>          <c>
Balance Sheet Data:
Oil and gas properties - net..........................  $3,055,910   $2,525,007   $2,334,928   $2,676,363   $2,387,207
Total assets..........................................   3,414,044    3,001,253    2,610,793    3,018,095    2,723,355
Long-term debt
  Third Party.........................................     855,969      859,000      990,306      942,779      548,775
  Affiliate...........................................         -            -            -        200,000      192,500
Deferred revenue......................................         -            -            -          4,198       39,918
Shareholders' equity..................................   1,642,686    1,380,925    1,129,611    1,280,304    1,281,049

(1) Includes  $133  million non-cash charges  in  connection  with impairments and/or EOG's decision
    to dispose of projects  no  longer deemed central to its business.
(2) Includes a $575 million tax-free gain on the share exchange transactions (See "Transactions with
    Enron Corp." on Page 8).
(3) Includes benefits of approximately $8 million, $12 million and $12 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
    respectively, relating to tight gas sands federal income tax credits.
(4) Includes  a benefit of $2 million related to the final audit assessments of India taxes for certain
    prior years, a benefit of $3.8  million related to reduced deferred franchise taxes, and $3.5 million
    related to cumulative Venezuela deferred tax benefits.
(5) Includes  a  benefit of $15 million primarily associated with the refiling of certain Canadian tax
    returns and the sale of certain international assets and subsidiaries.

</TABLE>


ITEM  7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

      Information  required by this item is incorporated by  reference
from pages 4 through 12 of the Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2002.


<PAGE>  17

Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

     This   Annual   Report  on  Form  10-K  includes  forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act  of
1933  and  Section  21E of the Securities Exchange Act  of  1934.  All
statements other than statements of historical facts, including, among
others, statements regarding EOG's future financial position, business
strategy,   budgets,   reserve  information,   projected   levels   of
production, projected costs and plans and objectives of management for
future operations, are forward-looking statements.  EOG typically uses
words   such   as  "expect,"  "anticipate,"  "estimate,"   "strategy,"
"intend,"  "plan,"  "target" and "believe" or the  negative  of  those
terms  or  other  variations of them or by comparable  terminology  to
identify  its  forward-looking statements. In particular,  statements,
express  or implied, concerning future operating results, the  ability
to  increase reserves, or the ability to generate income or cash flows
are  forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements  are  not
guarantees  of  performance.  Although EOG believes  its  expectations
reflected  in  forward-looking  statements  are  based  on  reasonable
assumptions, no assurance can be given that these expectations will be
achieved.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially  from  the  expectations reflected in  the  forward-looking
statements include, among others:  the timing and extent of changes in
commodity  prices for crude oil, natural gas and related products  and
interest  rates;  the  extent and effect  of  any  hedging  activities
engaged  in  by  EOG;  the  extent of EOG's  success  in  discovering,
developing, marketing and producing reserves and in acquiring oil  and
gas  properties;  the accuracy of reserve estimates,  which  by  their
nature involve the exercise of professional judgment and may therefore
be  imprecise;  political  developments around  the  world,  including
terrorist  activities and responses to such activities; and  financial
market  conditions.   In  light  of  these  risks,  uncertainties  and
assumptions,   the   events  anticipated  by   EOG's   forward-looking
statements might not occur.  EOG undertakes no obligations  to  update
or  revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of  new
information, future events or otherwise.


ITEM  7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

      EOG's exposure to interest rate risk and commodity price risk is
discussed  respectively in the Financing and Outlook sections  of  the
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and
Results  of Operations -- Capital Resources and Liquidity,"  which  is
incorporated  by  reference from pages 6 through 10 of  the  Form  8-K
filed  on  February  28,  2002.  EOG's exposure  to  foreign  currency
exchange rate risks and other market risks is insignificant.

ITEM 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from
portions of the Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2002 as indicated:

  Cross Reference to Applicable Sections
  of Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2002                             Page
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Report of Independent Public Accountants........................    14
  Consolidated Financial Statements...............................    15
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements......................    19
  Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements...    36
  Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information.......................    44

ITEM  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

      The required information has been previously reported in Item  4
of  EOG's  Current  Report on Form 8-K filed with the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission on March 1, 2002.


                               PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The  information  required by this Item regarding  directors  is
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement to be filed  within
120 days after December 31, 2001, under the caption entitled "Election
of Directors."

      See  list  of "Current Executive Officers of the Registrant"  in
Part I located elsewhere herein.




<PAGE>  18

ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation

      The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated  by
reference  from the Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days  after
December  31,  2001, under the caption "Compensation of Directors  and
Executive Officers."

ITEM  12.   Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners   and
Management

      The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated  by
reference  from the Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days  after
December  31,  2001, under the captions "Election  of  Directors"  and
"Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers."

ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated  by
reference  from the Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days  after
December 31, 2001, under the caption "Certain Transactions."


                               PART IV

ITEM  14.   Financial  Statements  and Financial  Statement  Schedule,
Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) Financial Statements and Supplemental Data

   Cross Reference to Applicable Sections
   of Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2002                           Page
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
   Consolidated Financial Statements...............................  15
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements......................  19
   Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements...  36
   Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information.......................  44




               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



     To EOG Resources, Inc.:

          We  have  audited  in  accordance  with  auditing  standards
     generally  accepted in the United States the financial statements
     included  in  EOG Resources, Inc.'s Current Report  on  Form  8-K
     dated  February 27, 2002, incorporated by reference in this  Form
     10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 21, 2002.
     Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those
     statements taken as a whole.  The schedule included in this  item
     is   the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management  and  is
     presented  for  purposes  of complying with  the  Securities  and
     Exchange  Commission's  rules  and  is  not  part  of  the  basic
     financial  statements.  This schedule has been subjected  to  the
     auditing  procedures applied in the audit of the basic  financial
     statements  and,  in our opinion, fairly states in  all  material
     respects  the financial data required to be set forth therein  in
     relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.



                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


     Houston, Texas
     February 21, 2002




<PAGE>  19

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedule

       Schedule II

<TABLE>
                          EOG RESOURCES, INC.

            VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
         For the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
                            (In Thousands)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Column A                                        Column B      Column C       Column D      Column E
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             Additions    Deductions for
                                               Balance at    Charged to     Purpose for   Balance at
                                              Beginning of   Costs and    Which Reserves    End of
Description                                       Year        Expenses     Were Created      Year
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<s>                                           <c>            <c>           <c>           <c>
2001
 Reserves deducted from assets
  to which they apply--
   Revaluation of Accounts Receivable.......    $ 1,558       $19,211        $   655       $20,114
                                                =======       =======        =======       =======
2000
 Reserves deducted from assets
  to which they apply--
   Revaluation of Accounts Receivable.......    $ 1,060       $   500        $     2       $ 1,558
                                                =======       =======        =======       =======
1999
 Reserves deducted from assets
  to which they apply--
   Revaluation of Accounts Receivable.......    $11,375       $ 1,972        $12,287       $ 1,060
                                                =======       =======        =======       =======

   Other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable
or the information required therein is included elsewhere in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto.

</TABLE>

  (a)(3) Exhibits

     See pages 20 through 24 for a listing of the exhibits.

  (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

   Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2001 to report a new
10  million share repurchase authorization of its common stock in Item
5  -  Other  Events; and to provide estimate for the third and  fourth
quarters and full year 2001 in Item 9 - Regulation FD Disclosure.

    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 14, 2001 to report an
amendment  to  EOG's Rights Agreement dated as of  February  14,  2000
between  EOG and First Chicago Trust Company of New York in Item  5  -
Other Events; to present as an exhibit the said amendment in Item 7  -
Financial  Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information  and  Exhibits;
and  to provide estimate for the fourth quarter and full year 2001  in
Item 9 - Regulation FD Disclosure.


<PAGE>  20

                               EXHIBITS

      Exhibits not incorporated herein by reference to a prior  filing
are designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits
not  so  designated  are  incorporated herein by  reference  to  EOG's
Form  S-1 Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-30678, filed  on
August 24, 1989 ("Form S-1"), or as otherwise indicated.

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

3.1(a)     --    Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Exhibit 3.1 to
           Form S-1).

3.1(b)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation  (Exhibit  4.1(b) to  Form  S-8  Registration
           Statement No. 33-52201, filed February 8, 1994).

3.1(c)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation  (Exhibit  4.1(c) to  Form  S-8  Registration
           Statement No. 33-58103, filed March 15, 1995).

3.1(d)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation,  dated  June  11,  1996  (Exhibit  3(d)   to
           Form   S-3  Registration  Statement  No.  333-09919,  filed
           August 9, 1996).

3.1(e)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation, dated May 7, 1997 (Exhibit 3(e) to Form  S-3
           Registration  Statement No. 333-44785,  filed  January  23,
           1998).

3.1(f)     --    Certificate of Ownership and Merger, dated August 26,
           1999  (Exhibit 3.1(f) to EOG's Annual Report on  Form  10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1999).

3.1(g)     --     Certificate  of  Designations  of  Series  E  Junior
           Participating  Preferred  Stock, dated  February  14,  2000
           (Exhibit  2  to  Form  8-A  Registration  Statement,  filed
           February 18, 2000).

3.1(h)     --    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
           Fixed  Rate  Cumulative Perpetual Senior  Preferred  Stock,
           Series  B,  dated  July 19, 2000 (Exhibit 3.1(h)  to  EOG's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3 Registration  Statement
           No. 333-46858, filed September 28, 2000).

3.1(i)     --    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
           the  Flexible  Money  Market  Cumulative  Preferred  Stock,
           Series  D,  dated  July 25, 2000 (Exhibit 3.1(i)  to  EOG's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3 Registration  Statement
           No. 333-46858, filed September 28, 2000).

3.1(j)     --     Certificate  of  Elimination  of  the   Fixed   Rate
           Cumulative  Perpetual  Senior Preferred  Stock,  Series  A,
           dated   September  15,  2000  (Exhibit  3.1(j)   to   EOG's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3 Registration  Statement
           No. 333-46858, filed September 28, 2000).

3.1(k)     --    Certificate  of  Elimination of  the  Flexible  Money
           Market   Cumulative  Preferred  Stock,  Series   C,   dated
           September  15,  2000 (Exhibit 3.1(k) to EOG's  Registration
           Statement on Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-46858,
           filed September 28, 2000).

3.2        --    By-laws,  dated  August  23,  1989,  as  amended  and
           restated effective as of May 8, 2001. (Exhibit 3.1 to EOG's
           Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the three  months  ended
           March 31, 2001).

4.1(a)     --    Specimen  of Certificate evidencing the Common  Stock
           (Exhibit  3.3 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
           year ended December 31, 1999).

4.1(b)     --     Specimen  of  Certificate  Evidencing   Fixed   Rate
           Cumulative  Perpetual  Senior  Preferred  Stock,  Series  B
           (Exhibit 4.3(g) to EOG's Registration Statement on Form S-4
           Registration Statement No. 333-36056, filed June 7, 2000).


<PAGE>  21

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

4.1(c)     --    Specimen  of  Certificate Evidencing  Flexible  Money
           Market Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D (Exhibit 4.3(g)
           to  EOG's  Registration Statement on Form S-4  Registration
           Statement No. 333-36416, filed June 12, 2000).

4.2        --    Rights  Agreement,  dated as of  February  14,  2000,
           between  EOG and First Chicago Trust Company of  New  York,
           which includes the form of Rights Certificate as Exhibit  B
           and  the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares  as
           Exhibit  C  (Exhibit 1 to EOG's Registration  Statement  on
           Form 8-A, filed February 18, 2000).

4.3        --    Form  of  Rights  Certificate  (Exhibit  3  to  EOG's
           Registration  Statement  on Form 8-A,  filed  February  18,
           2000).

4.4        --    Indenture dated as of September 1, 1991, between  EOG
           and  Chase  Bank  of Texas National Association  (formerly,
           Texas Commerce Bank National Association) (Exhibit 4(a)  to
           EOG's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-3  Registration
           Statement No. 33-42640, filed September 6, 1991).

4.5        --   Indenture dated as of _________, 2000, between EOG and
           The  Bank  of  New York (Exhibit 4.6 to EOG's  Registration
           Statement on Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-46858,
           filed September 28, 2000).

4.6        --    Amendment,  dated as of December  13,  2001,  to  the
           Rights  Agreement, dated as of February 14,  2000,  between
           EOG  and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as rights
           agent  (Exhibit 2 to Amendment No. 1 to EOG's  Registration
           Statement on Form 8-A/A filed December 14, 2001).

4.7        --    Letter  dated December 13, 2001, from  First  Chicago
           Trust  Company of New York to EOG resigning as rights agent
           effective January 12, 2002 (Exhibit 3 to Amendment No. 2 to
           EOG's  Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A filed  February
           7, 2002).

4.8        --    Amendment,  dated as of December  20,  2001,  to  the
           Rights  Agreement, dated as of February 14,  2000,  between
           EOG  and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as rights
           agent  (Exhibit 4 to Amendment No. 2 to EOG's  Registration
           Statement on Form 8-A/A filed February 7, 2002).

4.9        --    Letter  dated December 20, 2001, from EOG  Resources,
           Inc.  to EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. appointing EquiServe
           Trust Company, N.A. as successor rights agent (Exhibit 5 to
           Amendment No. 2 to EOG's Registration Statement on Form  8-
           A/A filed February 7, 2002).

10.1(a)    --    Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Plan (Exhibit 4.3  to
           Form   S-8  Registration  Statement  No.  33-58103,   filed
           March 15, 1995).

10.1(b)    --    Amendment  to Amended and Restated 1994  Stock  Plan,
           dated effective as of December 12, 1995 (Exhibit 4.3(a)  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1995).

10.1(c)    --    Amendment  to Amended and Restated 1994  Stock  Plan,
           dated effective as of December 10, 1996 (Exhibit 4.3(a)  to
           Form   S-8  Registration  Statement  No.  333-20841,  filed
           January 31, 1997).

10.1(d)    --    Third  Amendment to Amended and Restated  1994  Stock
           Plan,  dated  effective  as of December  9,  1997  (Exhibit
           4.3(d)  to  EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year
           ended December 31, 1997).

10.1(e)    --    Fourth  Amendment to Amended and Restated 1994  Stock
           Plan, dated effective as of May 5, 1998 (Exhibit 4.3(e)  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1998).

10.1(f)    --    Fifth  Amendment to Amended and Restated  1994  Stock
           Plan,  dated  effective  as of December  8,  1998  (Exhibit
           4.3(f)  to  EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year
           ended December 31, 1998).

*10.1(g)   --    Sixth  Amendment to Amended and Restated  1994  Stock
           Plan, dated effective as of May 8, 2001.


<PAGE>  22

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

10.2(a)    --    Stock Restriction and Registration Agreement dated as
           of August 23, 1989 (Exhibit 10.2 to Form S-1).

10.2(b)    --     Amendment  to  Stock  Restriction  and  Registration
           Agreement,  dated December 9, 1997, between EOG  and  Enron
           Corp. (Exhibit 10.2(b) to EOG's Annual Report on Form  10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1997).

10.3       --   Tax Allocation Agreement, entered into effective as of
           the Deconsolidation Date, between Enron Corp., EOG, and the
           subsidiaries  of  EOG listed therein as additional  parties
           (Exhibit 10.3 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
           year ended December 31, 1998).

10.4(a)    --    Share Exchange Agreement, dated as of July 19,  1999,
           between  Enron  Corp.  and  EOG  (Exhibit  2  to  Form  S-3
           Registration Statement No. 333-83533, filed July 23, 1999).

10.4(b)    --    Letter  Amendment,  dated July  30,  1999,  to  Share
           Exchange   Agreement,   between   Enron   Corp.   and   EOG
           (Exhibit  2.2  to EOG's Current Report on Form  8-K,  filed
           August 31, 1999).

10.4(c)    --    Letter  Amendment, dated August 10,  1999,  to  Share
           Exchange   Agreement,   between   Enron   Corp.   and   EOG
           (Exhibit  2.3  to EOG's Current Report on Form  8-K,  filed
           August 31, 1999).

10.4(d)    --    Consent  Agreement between EOG,  Enron  Corp.,  Enron
           Finance  Partners, LLC, Enron Intermediate  Holdings,  LLC,
           Enron  Asset Holdings, LLC and Aeneas, LLC, dated  November
           28, 2000.

10.5(a)    --     1993   Nonemployee  Directors  Stock   Option   Plan
           (Exhibit 10.14 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
           year ended December 31, 1992).

10.5(b)    --    First  Amendment to 1993 Nonemployee Directors  Stock
           Option  Plan  (Exhibit 10.14(b) to EOG's Annual  Report  on
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

*10.5(c)   --    Second Amendment to 1993 Nonemployee Directors  Stock
           Option Plan, dated effective as of May 8, 2001.

10.6       --    ISDA Master Agreement, dated as of November 1,  1993,
           between  EOG and Enron Risk Management Services Corp.,  and
           Confirmation  Nos. 1268.0, 1286.0, 1291.0, 1292.0,  1304.0,
           1305.0,  1321.0,  1335.0, 1338.0, 1370.0,  1471.0,  1485.0,
           1486.0,  1494.0,  1495.0, 1509.0, 1514.0, 1533.01,  1569.0,
           1986.0,  2217.0,  2227.0, 2278.0,  2299.0,  2372.0,  2647.0
           (Exhibit 10.18 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
           year ended December 31, 1993).

10.7(a)    --    1992  Stock  Plan (As Amended and Restated  Effective
           June  28, 1999) (Exhibit A to EOG's Proxy Statement,  dated
           June  4,  1999,  with respect to EOG's  Annual  Meeting  of
           Shareholders).

*10.7(b)   --    First  Amendment to 1992 Stock Plan (As  Amended  and
           Restated Effective June 28, 1999), dated  effective  as  of
           May 8, 2001.

10.8       --     Equity   Participation  and   Business   Opportunity
           Agreement,  dated December 9, 1997, between EOG  and  Enron
           Corp.  (Exhibit  10  to  Form  S-3  Registration  Statement
           No. 333-44785, filed January 23, 1998).

10.9(a)    --    1996 Deferral Plan (Exhibit 10.63(a) to EOG's  Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997).

10.9(b)    --   First Amendment to 1996 Deferral Plan, dated effective
           as  of  December 9, 1997 (Exhibit 10.63(b) to EOG's  Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997).

10.9(c)    --     Second  Amendment  to  1996  Deferral  Plan,   dated
           effective as of December 8, 1998 (Exhibit 10.63(c) to EOG's
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,
           1998).




<PAGE>  23

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

10.9(d)    --   1996  Deferral Plan, as amended and restated effective
           May 8, 2001 (Exhibit 4.4 to Form S-8 Registration Statement
           No. 333-84014, filed March 8, 2002).

10.10(a)   --   Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Mark G.
           Papa,  effective as of November 1, 1997 (Exhibit  10.64  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1997).

10.10(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Mark G. Papa, effective as of February  1,
           1999  (Exhibit 10.64(b) to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1998).

10.10(c)   --    Second  Amendment to Executive Agreement between  EOG
           and  Mark  G. Papa, effective as of June 28, 1999  (Exhibit
           10.64(c)  to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year
           ended December 31, 1999).

*10.10(d)  --Third Amendment to Executive Employment Agreement between
           EOG  and  Mark G. Papa, entered into on June 20, 2001,  and
           made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.10(e)  --Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Mark G. Papa,
           effective as of June 20, 2001.

10.11(a)   --     Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  EOG   and
           Edmund  P. Segner, III, effective as of September  1,  1998
           (Exhibit  10.65(a) to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
           the year ended December 31, 1998).

10.11(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Edmund P. Segner, III, effective  as  of
           February  1, 1999 (Exhibit 10.65(b) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

10.11(c)   --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Edmund P. Segner, III, effective  as  of
           June  28, 1999 (Exhibit 10.65(c) to EOG's Annual Report  on
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.11(d)  --    Third  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between EOG and Edmund P. Segner, III, entered into on June
           22, 2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.11(e)  --    Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Edmund P.
           Segner, III, effective as of June 22, 2001.

10.12(a)   --    Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and  Barry
           Hunsaker,  Jr., effective as of September 1, 1998  (Exhibit
           10.66(a)  to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year
           ended December 31, 1999).

10.12(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Barry Hunsaker,  Jr.,  effective  as  of
           December 21, 1998 (Exhibit 10.66(b) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

10.12(c)   --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Barry Hunsaker,  Jr.,  effective  as  of
           February  1, 1999 (Exhibit 10.66(c) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.12(d)  --    Third  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Barry Hunsaker, Jr., entered into on  June
           29, 2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.12(e)  --    Change  of  Control Agreement between EOG  and  Barry
           Hunsaker, Jr., effective as of June 29, 2001.

10.13(a)   --   Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Loren M
           Leiker, effective as of March 1, 1998 (Exhibit 10.67(a)  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1999).


<PAGE>  24

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

10.13(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between   EOG  and  Loren  M.  Leiker,  effective   as   of
           February  1, 1999 (Exhibit 10.67(b) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.13(c)  --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Loren M. Leiker, entered into on  July  1,
           2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.13(d)  --    Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Loren  M.
           Leiker, effective as of July 1, 2001.

10.14(a)   --   Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and Gary L.
           Thomas, effective as of September 1, 1998 (Exhibit 10.68(a)
           to  EOG's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1999).

10.14(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between EOG and Gary L. Thomas, effective as of February 1,
           1999  (Exhibit 10.68(b) to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.14(c)  --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Gary L. Thomas, entered into  on  July  1,
           2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.14(d)  --    Change of Control Agreement between EOG and  Gary  L.
           Thomas, effective as of July 1, 2001.

*10.15     --    Change  of  Control Severance Plan, (as  Amended  and
           Restated Effective May 8, 2001).

10.16      --    Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Exhibit 4.4 to Form S-8
           Registration Statement No. 333-62256, filed June 4, 2001).

10.17      --    Savings  Plan  (Exhibit 4.4 to Form S-8  Registration
           Statement No. 333-63184, filed June 15, 2001.

10.18      --    Executive  Officer Annual Bonus Plan  (Exhibit  C  to
           EOG's  Proxy Statement, dated March 30, 2001, with  respect
           to EOG's Annual Meeting of Shareholders).

*12        --    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
           Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends.

16.1       --    Letter  regarding  change  in  certifying  accountant
           (Exhibit  16.1 to EOG's Current Report on Form  8-K,  filed
           March 1, 2002).

*21        --   List of subsidiaries.

*23.1      --   Consent of DeGolyer and MacNaughton.

23.2       --    Opinion of DeGolyer and MacNaughton dated January 25,
           2002  (Exhibit 23.2 to EOG's Current Report  on  Form  8-K,
           filed on February 28, 2002).

*23.3      --   Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

*24        --   Powers of Attorney.

*99        --    Current  Report on Form 8-K, filed  on  February  28,
           2002.



<PAGE>  25

                              SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized, on the 20th day of March, 2002.

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.
                              (Registrant)

                              By   /s/TIMOTHY K. DRIGGERS
                                ---------------------------
                                  (Timothy K. Driggers)
                                Vice President Accounting
                                 and Land Administration
                               (Principal Accounting Officer)

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this report has been signed by the following persons on  behalf
of registrant and in the capacities with EOG Resources, Inc. indicated
and on the 20th day of March, 2002.

           Signature                          Title
          -----------                       ---------

        /s/ MARK G. PAPA      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and
   --------------------------   Director (Principal Executive Officer)
         (Mark G. Papa)


     /s/ TIMOTHY K. DRIGGERS         Vice President Accounting
   --------------------------         and Land Administration
     (Timothy  K.  Driggers)       (Principal Accounting Officer)


      /s/ DAVID R. LOONEY              Vice President Finance
   --------------------------      (Principal Financial Officer)
       (David R. Looney


      *EDMUND P. SEGNER, III    President and Chief of Staff and Director
   ---------------------------
     (Edmund P. Segner, III)


       *GEORGE A. ALCORN                  Director
   ---------------------------
       (George A. Alcorn)


      *EDWARD RANDALL, III                Director
   ---------------------------
     (Edward Randall, III)


       *DONALD F. TEXTOR                  Director
   ---------------------------
       (Donald F. Textor)


        *FRANK G. WISNER                  Director
   ---------------------------
       (Frank G. Wisner)


*By  /s/ PATRICIA L. EDWARDS
   ----------------------------
     (Patricia L. Edwards)
(Attorney-in-fact for persons indicated)



<PAGE>  26

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

3.1(a)     --    Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Exhibit 3.1 to
           Form S-1).

3.1(b)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation  (Exhibit  4.1(b) to  Form  S-8  Registration
           Statement No. 33-52201, filed February 8, 1994).

3.1(c)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation  (Exhibit  4.1(c) to  Form  S-8  Registration
           Statement No. 33-58103, filed March 15, 1995).

3.1(d)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation,  dated  June  11,  1996  (Exhibit  3(d)   to
           Form   S-3  Registration  Statement  No.  333-09919,  filed
           August 9, 1996).

3.1(e)     --    Certificate  of Amendment of Restated Certificate  of
           Incorporation, dated May 7, 1997 (Exhibit 3(e) to Form  S-3
           Registration  Statement No. 333-44785,  filed  January  23,
           1998).

3.1(f)     --    Certificate of Ownership and Merger, dated August 26,
           1999  (Exhibit 3.1(f) to EOG's Annual Report on  Form  10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1999).

3.1(g)     --     Certificate  of  Designations  of  Series  E  Junior
           Participating  Preferred  Stock, dated  February  14,  2000
           (Exhibit  2  to  Form  8-A  Registration  Statement,  filed
           February 18, 2000).

3.1(h)     --    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
           Fixed  Rate  Cumulative Perpetual Senior  Preferred  Stock,
           Series  B,  dated  July 19, 2000 (Exhibit 3.1(h)  to  EOG's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3 Registration  Statement
           No. 333-46858, filed September 28, 2000).

3.1(i)     --    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
           the  Flexible  Money  Market  Cumulative  Preferred  Stock,
           Series  D,  dated  July 25, 2000 (Exhibit 3.1(i)  to  EOG's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3 Registration  Statement
           No. 333-46858, filed September 28, 2000).

3.1(j)     --     Certificate  of  Elimination  of  the   Fixed   Rate
           Cumulative  Perpetual  Senior Preferred  Stock,  Series  A,
           dated   September  15,  2000  (Exhibit  3.1(j)   to   EOG's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3 Registration  Statement
           No. 333-46858, filed September 28, 2000).

3.1(k)     --    Certificate  of  Elimination of  the  Flexible  Money
           Market   Cumulative  Preferred  Stock,  Series   C,   dated
           September  15,  2000 (Exhibit 3.1(k) to EOG's  Registration
           Statement  on  Form  S-3 Registration  Statement  No.  333-
           46858, filed September 28, 2000).

3.2        --    By-laws,  dated  August  23,  1989,  as  amended  and
           restated  effective  as  of May 8, 2001.  (Exhibit  3.1  to
           EOG's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the  three  months
           ended March 31, 2001).

4.1(a)     --    Specimen  of Certificate evidencing the Common  Stock
           (Exhibit  3.3 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
           year ended December 31, 1999).

4.1(b)     --     Specimen  of  Certificate  Evidencing   Fixed   Rate
           Cumulative  Perpetual  Senior  Preferred  Stock,  Series  B
           (Exhibit 4.3(g) to EOG's Registration Statement on Form  S-
           4  Registration  Statement  No. 333-36056,  filed  June  7,
           2000).

4.1(c)     --    Specimen  of  Certificate Evidencing  Flexible  Money
           Market   Cumulative  Preferred  Stock,  Series  D  (Exhibit
           4.3(g)   to  EOG's  Registration  Statement  on  Form   S-4
           Registration  Statement  No.  333-36416,  filed  June   12,
           2000).




<PAGE>  27

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

4.2        --    Rights  Agreement,  dated as of  February  14,  2000,
           between  EOG and First Chicago Trust Company of  New  York,
           which includes the form of Rights Certificate as Exhibit  B
           and  the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares  as
           Exhibit  C  (Exhibit 1 to EOG's Registration  Statement  on
           Form 8-A, filed February 18, 2000).

4.3        --    Form  of  Rights  Certificate  (Exhibit  3  to  EOG's
           Registration  Statement  on Form 8-A,  filed  February  18,
           2000).

4.4        --    Indenture dated as of September 1, 1991, between  EOG
           and  Chase  Bank  of Texas National Association  (formerly,
           Texas Commerce Bank National Association) (Exhibit 4(a)  to
           EOG's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-3  Registration
           Statement No. 33-42640, filed September 6, 1991).

4.5        --    Indenture  dated as of _________, 2000,  between  EOG
           and   The   Bank  of  New  York  (Exhibit  4.6   to   EOG's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3 Registration  Statement
           No. 333-46858, filed September 28, 2000).

4.6        --    Amendment,  dated as of December  13,  2001,  to  the
           Rights  Agreement, dated as of February 14,  2000,  between
           EOG  and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as rights
           agent  (Exhibit 2 to Amendment No. 1 to EOG's  Registration
           Statement on Form 8-A/A filed December 14, 2001).

4.7        --    Letter  dated December 13, 2001, from  First  Chicago
           Trust  Company of New York to EOG resigning as rights agent
           effective  January 12, 2002 (Exhibit 3 to Amendment  No.  2
           to   EOG's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  8-A/A  filed
           February 7, 2002).

4.8        --    Amendment,  dated as of December  20,  2001,  to  the
           Rights  Agreement, dated as of February 14,  2000,  between
           EOG  and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as rights
           agent  (Exhibit 4 to Amendment No. 2 to EOG's  Registration
           Statement on Form 8-A/A filed February 7, 2002).

4.9        --    Letter  dated December 20, 2001, from EOG  Resources,
           Inc.  to EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. appointing EquiServe
           Trust  Company, N.A. as successor rights agent  (Exhibit  5
           to  Amendment No. 2 to EOG's Registration Statement on Form
           8-A/A filed February 7, 2002).

10.1(a)    --    Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Plan (Exhibit 4.3  to
           Form   S-8  Registration  Statement  No.  33-58103,   filed
           March 15, 1995).

10.1(b)    --    Amendment  to Amended and Restated 1994  Stock  Plan,
           dated effective as of December 12, 1995 (Exhibit 4.3(a)  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1995).

10.1(c)    --    Amendment  to Amended and Restated 1994  Stock  Plan,
           dated effective as of December 10, 1996 (Exhibit 4.3(a)  to
           Form   S-8  Registration  Statement  No.  333-20841,  filed
           January 31, 1997).

10.1(d)    --    Third  Amendment to Amended and Restated  1994  Stock
           Plan,  dated  effective  as of December  9,  1997  (Exhibit
           4.3(d)  to  EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year
           ended December 31, 1997).

10.1(e)    --    Fourth  Amendment to Amended and Restated 1994  Stock
           Plan, dated effective as of May 5, 1998 (Exhibit 4.3(e)  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1998).

10.1(f)    --    Fifth  Amendment to Amended and Restated  1994  Stock
           Plan,  dated  effective  as of December  8,  1998  (Exhibit
           4.3(f)  to  EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year
           ended December 31, 1998).

*10.1(g)   --    Sixth  Amendment to Amended and Restated  1994  Stock
           Plan, dated effective as of May 8, 2001.



<PAGE>  28

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

10.2(a)    --    Stock Restriction and Registration Agreement dated as
           of August 23, 1989 (Exhibit 10.2 to Form S-1).

10.2(b)    --     Amendment  to  Stock  Restriction  and  Registration
           Agreement,  dated December 9, 1997, between EOG  and  Enron
           Corp. (Exhibit 10.2(b) to EOG's Annual Report on Form  10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1997).

10.3       --    Tax  Allocation Agreement, entered into effective  as
           of  the Deconsolidation Date, between Enron Corp., EOG, and
           the  subsidiaries  of  EOG  listed  therein  as  additional
           parties  (Exhibit 10.3 to EOG's Annual Report on Form  10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1998).

10.4(a)    --    Share Exchange Agreement, dated as of July 19,  1999,
           between  Enron  Corp.  and  EOG  (Exhibit  2  to  Form  S-3
           Registration  Statement  No.  333-83533,  filed  July   23,
           1999).

10.4(b)    --    Letter  Amendment,  dated July  30,  1999,  to  Share
           Exchange   Agreement,   between   Enron   Corp.   and   EOG
           (Exhibit  2.2  to EOG's Current Report on Form  8-K,  filed
           August 31, 1999).

10.4(c)    --    Letter  Amendment, dated August 10,  1999,  to  Share
           Exchange   Agreement,   between   Enron   Corp.   and   EOG
           (Exhibit  2.3  to EOG's Current Report on Form  8-K,  filed
           August 31, 1999).

10.4(d)    --    Consent  Agreement between EOG,  Enron  Corp.,  Enron
           Finance  Partners, LLC, Enron Intermediate  Holdings,  LLC,
           Enron  Asset Holdings, LLC and Aeneas, LLC, dated  November
           28, 2000.

10.5(a)    --     1993   Nonemployee  Directors  Stock   Option   Plan
           (Exhibit 10.14 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
           year ended December 31, 1992).

10.5(b)    --    First  Amendment to 1993 Nonemployee Directors  Stock
           Option  Plan  (Exhibit 10.14(b) to EOG's Annual  Report  on
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

*10.5(c)   --    Second Amendment to 1993 Nonemployee Directors  Stock
           Option Plan, dated effective as of May 8, 2001.

10.6       --    ISDA Master Agreement, dated as of November 1,  1993,
           between  EOG and Enron Risk Management Services Corp.,  and
           Confirmation  Nos. 1268.0, 1286.0, 1291.0, 1292.0,  1304.0,
           1305.0,  1321.0,  1335.0, 1338.0, 1370.0,  1471.0,  1485.0,
           1486.0,  1494.0,  1495.0, 1509.0, 1514.0, 1533.01,  1569.0,
           1986.0,  2217.0,  2227.0, 2278.0,  2299.0,  2372.0,  2647.0
           (Exhibit 10.18 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
           year ended December 31, 1993).

10.7(a)    --    1992  Stock  Plan (As Amended and Restated  Effective
           June  28, 1999) (Exhibit A to EOG's Proxy Statement,  dated
           June  4,  1999,  with respect to EOG's  Annual  Meeting  of
           Shareholders).

*10.7(b)   --    First  Amendment to 1992 Stock Plan (As  Amended  and
           Restated  Effective June 28, 1999) dated  effective  as  of
           May 8, 2001.

10.8       --     Equity   Participation  and   Business   Opportunity
           Agreement,  dated December 9, 1997, between EOG  and  Enron
           Corp.  (Exhibit  10  to  Form  S-3  Registration  Statement
           No. 333-44785, filed January 23, 1998).

10.9(a)    --    1996 Deferral Plan (Exhibit 10.63(a) to EOG's  Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997).

10.9(b)    --     First   Amendment  to  1996  Deferral  Plan,   dated
           effective  as  of  December 9, 1997  (Exhibit  10.63(b)  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1997).

10.9(c)    --     Second  Amendment  to  1996  Deferral  Plan,   dated
           effective  as  of  December 8, 1998  (Exhibit  10.63(c)  to
           EOG's  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1998).



<PAGE>  29

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

10.9(d)    --    1996 Deferral Plan, as amended and restated effective
           May   8,   2001  (Exhibit  4.4  to  Form  S-8  Registration
           Statement No. 333-84014, filed March 8, 2002).

10.10(a)   --     Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  EOG   and
           Mark   G.   Papa,   effective  as  of  November   1,   1997
           (Exhibit 10.64 to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
           year ended December 31, 1997).

10.10(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Mark G. Papa, effective as of February  1,
           1999  (Exhibit 10.64(b) to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K
           for the year ended December 31, 1998).

10.10(c)   --    Second  Amendment to Executive Agreement between  EOG
           and  Mark  G. Papa, effective as of June 28, 1999  (Exhibit
           10.64(c)  to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year
           ended December 31, 1999).

*10.10(d)  --Third   Amendment   to  Executive  Employment   Agreement
           between  EOG  and Mark G. Papa, entered into  on  June  20,
           2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.10(e)  --Change  of  Control Agreement between  EOG  and  Mark  G.
           Papa, effective as of June 20, 2001.

10.11(a)   --     Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  EOG   and
           Edmund  P. Segner, III, effective as of September  1,  1998
           (Exhibit  10.65(a) to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
           the year ended December 31, 1998).

10.11(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Edmund P. Segner, III, effective  as  of
           February  1, 1999 (Exhibit 10.65(b) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

10.11(c)   --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Edmund P. Segner, III, effective  as  of
           June  28, 1999 (Exhibit 10.65(c) to EOG's Annual Report  on
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.11(d)  --    Third  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Edmund P. Segner, III, entered  into  on
           June 22, 2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.11(e)  --    Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Edmund P.
           Segner, III, effective as of June 22, 2001.

10.12(a)   --    Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and  Barry
           Hunsaker,  Jr., effective as of September 1, 1998  (Exhibit
           10.66(a)  to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year
           ended December 31, 1999).

10.12(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Barry Hunsaker,  Jr.,  effective  as  of
           December 21, 1998 (Exhibit 10.66(b) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

10.12(c)   --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG  and  Barry Hunsaker,  Jr.,  effective  as  of
           February  1, 1999 (Exhibit 10.66(c) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.12(d)  --    Third  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Barry Hunsaker, Jr., entered into on  June
           29, 2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.12(e)  --    Change  of  Control Agreement between EOG  and  Barry
           Hunsaker, Jr., effective as of June 29, 2001.

10.13(a)   --    Executive Employment Agreement between EOG and  Loren
           M.  Leiker, effective as of March 1, 1998 (Exhibit  10.67(a)
           to  EOG's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
           December 31, 1999).



<PAGE>  30

Exhibit
Number                          Description
-------                        -------------

10.13(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between   EOG  and  Loren  M.  Leiker,  effective   as   of
           February  1, 1999 (Exhibit 10.67(b) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.13(c)  --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Loren M. Leiker, entered into on  July  1,
           2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.13(d)  --    Change of Control Agreement between EOG and Loren  M.
           Leiker, effective as of July 1, 2001.

10.14(a)   --     Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  EOG   and
           Gary  L. Thomas, effective as of September 1, 1998 (Exhibit
           10.68(a)  to EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year
           ended December 31, 1999).

10.14(b)   --    First  Amendment  to Executive  Employment  Agreement
           between   EOG   and  Gary  L.  Thomas,  effective   as   of
           February  1, 1999 (Exhibit 10.68(b) to EOG's Annual  Report
           on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

*10.14(c)  --    Second  Amendment  to Executive Employment  Agreement
           between  EOG and Gary L. Thomas, entered into  on  July  1,
           2001, and made effective as of June 1, 2001.

*10.14(d)  --    Change of Control Agreement between EOG and  Gary  L.
           Thomas, effective as of July 1, 2001.

*10.15     --    Change  of  Control Severance Plan, (as  Amended  and
           Restated Effective May 8, 2001).

10.16      --    Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Exhibit 4.4 to Form S-8
           Registration Statement No. 333-62256, filed June 4, 2001).

10.17      --    Savings  Plan  (Exhibit 4.4 to Form S-8  Registration
           Statement No. 333-63184, filed June 15, 2001.

10.18      --    Executive  Officer Annual Bonus Plan  (Exhibit  C  to
           EOG's  Proxy Statement, dated March 30, 2001, with  respect
           to EOG's Annual Meeting of Shareholders).

*12        --    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
           Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends.

16.1       --    Letter  regarding  change  in  certifying  accountant
           (Exhibit  16.1 to EOG's Current Report on Form  8-K,  filed
           March 1, 2002).

*21        --    List of subsidiaries.

*23.1      --    Consent of DeGolyer and MacNaughton.

 23.2      --    Opinion of DeGolyer and MacNaughton dated January 25,
           2002  (Exhibit 23.2 to EOG's Current Report  on  Form  8-K,
           filed on February 28, 2002).

*23.3      --    Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

*24        --    Powers of Attorney.

*99        --    Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 28, 2002.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
