<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>comcast200210k.txt
<TEXT>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                         ______________________________

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
       (Mark One)
           [ X ]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED

                                DECEMBER 31, 2002

                                       OR
           [   ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM  ___________ TO ____________

                        Commission file number 000-50093

                               COMCAST CORPORATION
                       (formerly AT&T Comcast Corporation)
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


              PENNSYLVANIA                                 27-0000798
  (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

         1500 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA             19102-2148
       (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (215) 665-1700
                        ________________________________

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
                        _________________________________

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                  Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value
                  Class A Special Common Stock, $0.01 par value
                          ____________________________

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports)  and  (2)  has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                    Yes     X                    No      _____

                           __________________________

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated  by  reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any  amendments  to
this Form 10-K.
                                                                            [  ]

                           __________________________

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  Registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

                    Yes     X                    No      _____

As of June 30, 2002, the aggregate  market value of the Class A Common Stock and
Class A Special Common Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the Registrant was $505
million and $21.533 billion, respectively.

                                            __________________________
As of  December  31,  2002,  there were  1,355,373,648  shares of Class A Common
Stock,  883,343,590  shares of Class A Special Common Stock and 9,444,375 shares
of Class B Common Stock outstanding.

                           __________________________

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III - The Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Shareholders presently scheduled to be held in May 2003.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>

                            ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS

Comcast  Corporation was incorporated in December 2001 to effect the acquisition
of AT&T Corp.'s broadband business, which was consummated on November 18, 2002.

The Company is involved in three  principal lines of business:  cable,  commerce
and  content.  The  Company's  cable  business  is  principally  involved in the
development,  management and operation of broadband  communications  networks in
the United  States.  The Company  conducts  its  commerce  business  through its
consolidated subsidiary,  QVC, Inc. QVC, an electronic retailer,  markets a wide
variety of  products  directly to  consumers  primarily  on  merchandise-focused
television  programs.  The Company's  content  business is provided  through the
Company's consolidated programming investments,  including Comcast Spectacor, E!
Entertainment  Television,  The Golf  Channel,  Outdoor Life Network and G4, and
through other programming investments.

To simplify the Company's capital  structure,  effective with the acquisition of
Broadband,  the Company and four of its cable holding company subsidiaries fully
and   unconditionally   guaranteed   each  other's  debt  securities  and  other
indebtedness for borrowed money.  Comcast Holdings is not a guarantor,  and none
of its debt is guaranteed.

The following  chart  illustrates  the Company's  organizational  structure on a
simplified  basis  and  does  not  reflect  all of the  Company's  subsidiaries.
Substantially  all of the  Company's  operations  are  conducted  at  lower-tier
subsidiaries.

                               [GRAPHIC OMITTED]

(1)  Part of guarantor group.
(2)  Comcast MO of Delaware,  Inc.  (formerly,  MediaOne of  Delaware,  Inc. and
     Continental  Cablevision,  Inc.) is an  indirect  subsidiary  of Comcast MO
     Group,  Inc. and was not originally  part of the guarantor  group. On March
     12, 2003, we announced the  successful  completion of a bondholder  consent
     solicitation related to $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of its debt
     securities to permit it to become part of the cross-guarantee structure.

In the diagram  above and  throughout  this Annual  Report,  we refer to Comcast
Corporation  (formerly AT&T Comcast  Corporation) as "Comcast";  Comcast and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  as the  "Company",  "we",  "us" and  "our";  Comcast
Holdings  Corporation  (formerly  Comcast  Corporation  and our  predecessor) as
"Comcast Holdings";  Comcast Cable Communications  Holdings, Inc. (formerly AT&T
Broadband  Corp.) as "Comcast  Cable  Communications  Holdings" or  "Broadband";
Comcast Cable  Communications,  Inc. as "Comcast Cable";  Comcast MO Group, Inc.
(formerly MediaOne Group,  Inc.) as "Comcast MO Group";  Comcast Cable Holdings,
LLC (formerly AT&T  Broadband,  LLC and  Tele-Communications,  Inc.) as "Comcast
Cable  Holdings";  and  Comcast MO of  Delaware,  Inc.  (formerly,  MediaOne  of
Delaware, Inc. and Continental Cablevision, Inc.) as "Comcast MO of Delaware."




<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 COMCAST CORPORATION
                                            2002 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                       PART I
<S>  <C>                                                                                                          <C>
Item 1   Business................................................................................................ 1
Item 2   Properties..............................................................................................15
Item 3   Legal Proceedings.......................................................................................16
Item 4   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.....................................................18
Item 4A  Executive Officers of the Registrant....................................................................19

                                                       PART II
Item 5   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters...............................20
Item 6   Selected Financial Data.................................................................................21
Item 7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations...................22
Item 8   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.............................................................37
Item 9   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure....................88

                                                      PART III
Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant......................................................88
Item 11  Executive Compensation..................................................................................88
Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters..........88
Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..........................................................88

                                                       PART IV
Item 14  Controls and Procedures.................................................................................88
Item 15  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K........................................88
SIGNATURES.......................................................................................................93
CERTIFICATIONS...................................................................................................96

</TABLE>

                          -----------------------------

     This Annual  Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended  December  31, 2002.
This Annual Report modifies and supersedes  documents filed prior to this Annual
Report. The SEC allows us to "incorporate by reference" information that we file
with them,  which means that we can  disclose  important  information  to you by
referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference
is considered to be part of this Annual Report. In addition, information that we
file  with  the  SEC in the  future  will  automatically  update  and  supersede
information contained in this Annual Report.

     You  should  carefully  review the  information  contained  in this  Annual
Report, and should  particularly  consider any risk factors that we set forth in
this Annual Report and in other  reports or documents  that we file from time to
time with the SEC. In this Annual Report,  we state our beliefs of future events
and of our future financial  performance.  In some cases, you can identify those
so-called "forward-looking statements" by words such as "may," "will," "should,"
"expects,"  "plans,"   "anticipates,"   "believes,"   "estimates,"   "predicts,"
"potential,"  or "continue" or the negative of those words and other  comparable
words.  You  should be aware  that those  statements  are only our  predictions.
Actual events or results may differ materially.  In evaluating those statements,
you should specifically  consider various factors,  including the risks outlined
below.  Those factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any
of our forward-looking statements.



<PAGE>


Factors Affecting Future Operations

     We  were  incorporated  in  December  2001  under  the  name  AT&T  Comcast
Corporation to effect the acquisition of AT&T Corp.'s broadband business,  which
we refer to as "Broadband." The acquisition, which we refer to as the "Broadband
acquisition,"  was  consummated  on November 18, 2002.  On November 18, 2002, we
changed  our name from AT&T  Comcast  Corporation  to Comcast  Corporation.  For
purposes of this Annual Report, we treat Comcast Holdings Corporation  (formerly
Comcast Corporation and now a wholly owned subsidiary) as our predecessor and as
the accounting  acquiror of Broadband.  In this Annual Report, we refer to cable
operations owned prior to the Broadband  acquisition as "historical",  and those
we acquired in the Broadband acquisition as "newly acquired."

     As a result of the  Broadband  acquisition,  we have newly  acquired  cable
operations in communities in which we do not have established relationships with
the  subscribers,  franchising  authority  and  community  leaders.  Further,  a
substantial number of new employees are being and must continue to be integrated
into our business  practices and  operations.  Our results of operations  may be
significantly  affected by our ability to  efficiently  and  effectively  manage
these changes.

     Factors that may cause our actual results to differ  materially from any of
our forward-looking  statements presented in this Annual Report include, but are
not limited to:

o    we may not successfully  integrate Broadband or the integration may be more
     difficult, time-consuming or costly than we expect,
o    we may not realize the  combination  benefits we expect from the  Broadband
     acquisition or these benefits may take longer to achieve, and
o    we  may  incur  greater-than-expected  operating  costs,  financing  costs,
     subscriber loss and business  disruption,  including,  without  limitation,
     difficulties  in maintaining  relationships  with  employees,  subscribers,
     suppliers or franchising authorities, following the Broadband acquisition.

     In addition, our businesses may be affected by, among other things:

o    changes in laws and regulations,
o    changes in the competitive environment,
o    changes in technology,
o    industry consolidation and mergers,
o    franchise related matters,
o    market  conditions that may adversely  affect the  availability of debt and
     equity  financing  for  working  capital,  capital  expenditures  or  other
     purposes,
o    demand for the  programming  content we  distribute or the  willingness  of
     other video program distributors to carry our content, and
o    general economic conditions.

     As more fully  described  elsewhere in this Annual  Report,  the  Broadband
acquisition  substantially increased the size of our cable operations and caused
significant changes in our capital structure. As a result, direct comparisons of
our results of operations and financial  condition for periods prior to November
18, 2002 to subsequent periods are not meaningful.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1 BUSINESS

     We are a Pennsylvania  corporation  and were  incorporated in December 2001
under the name AT&T Comcast  Corporation  to effect the  Broadband  acquisition,
which was consummated on November 18, 2002.

     We are involved in three principal lines of business:

     o    Cable-through  the development,  management and operation of broadband
          communications  networks,  including  video,  high-speed  Internet and
          phone service,
     o    Commerce-through QVC, our electronic retail- ing subsidiary, and
     o    Content-through our consolidated  programming  investments,  including
          Comcast Spectacor,  Comcast SportsNet, Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic,
          Cable Sports Southeast, E! Entertainment  Television,  Style, The Golf
          Channel,  Outdoor Life Network,  G4, and through our other programming
          investments.

     As a result of the Broadband acquisition, we are the largest cable operator
in the United States.  We have deployed  digital cable and  high-speed  Internet
service to the  substantial  majority of our cable  systems.  As of December 31,
2002, our consolidated  cable operations  served 21.3 million  subscribers in 41
states,  passed 39.1 million homes,  and provided digital cable to more than 6.6
million  subscribers,  high-speed  Internet to more than 3.6 million subscribers
and  phone  service  to  more  than  1.4  million  subscribers.   The  Broadband
acquisition  contributed  approximately 60% of these  subscribers,  64% of these
homes  passed,  66% of the  digital  cable  subscribers,  58% of the  high-speed
Internet  subscribers  and  97% of the  phone  subscribers.  We  expect  to make
substantial capital expenditures over the next two years to complete the upgrade
and rebuild of the newly acquired cable systems.

     Through  QVC, we market a wide  variety of products  directly to  consumers
primarily on  merchandise-focused

<PAGE>

television programs.  As of December 31, 2002, QVC was available,  on a full and
part-time basis, to 85.9 million homes in the United States,  11.4 million homes
in the United  Kingdom,  25.8 million  homes in Germany and 8.4 million homes in
Japan.

     We  have  our   principal   executive   offices  at  1500  Market   Street,
Philadelphia,  PA 19102-2148.  Our telephone  number is (215) 665-1700.  We also
have a world  wide web site at  http://www.comcast.com.  Copies  of the  annual,
quarterly and current  reports we file with the SEC, and any amendments to those
reports,  are available on our web site. The information  posted on our web site
is not incorporated into this Annual Report.

                  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS

     Refer to Note 14 to our consolidated  financial statements included in Item
8 for information about our operations by business segment.

                      GENERAL DEVELOPMENTS OF OUR BUSINESS

Broadband Acquisition

     On November  18,  2002,  we  consummated  the  Broadband  acquisition.  The
consideration  to  complete  the  Broadband  acquisition  was  $50.780  billion,
consisting  of 1.348  billion  shares of our common stock and options  valued at
$25.495 billion,  assumed  Broadband debt of $24.860 billion and $425 million of
transaction costs directly related to the Broadband acquisition. Refer to Note 5
to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for more information
about the Broadband acquisition.

TWE Restructuring

     As a result of the Broadband acquisition,  we now own AT&T's 27.6% interest
in Time Warner  Entertainment  Company L.P., or TWE. In August 2002, we and AT&T
reached agreement with AOL Time Warner, Inc. to restructure the TWE partnership.
Upon  closing of the  restructuring  agreement,  we will receive $1.5 billion in
common  stock  of AOL  Time  Warner,  valued  at the  time  of  closing,  and an
approximate  21% equity  interest in a new cable  company,  expected to be named
Time Warner Cable, Inc., or TWC, serving 10.8 million subscribers.  We also will
receive $2.1 billion in cash. We will receive certain  priority demand and other
registration  rights  with  respect to the AOL Time  Warner and TWC shares  that
should  facilitate  their  disposition or  monetization.  The closing of the TWE
restructuring is expected to occur by the end of the second quarter of 2003, and
is subject to customary closing conditions.

     TWC will be formed from TWE's  existing  cable  properties  and  additional
cable  properties  to be  contributed  by AOL Time Warner.  AOL Time Warner will
assume complete ownership of TWE's major content assets,  which include Home Box
Office  (HBO),  Warner Bros.  and stakes in The WB Network,  Comedy  Central and
Court TV.  Pursuant to the order of the Federal  Communications  Commission,  or
FCC,  we  have  placed  our  entire  interest  in TWE  in  trust.  Any  non-cash
consideration  received by us with respect to our interest in TWE as a result of
the TWE restructuring,  including the AOL Time Warner and TWC common stock, will
also be placed in this trust.  We will account for our investment in TWE (or any
successor  securities)  under the cost method as we will not have the ability to
exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of TWE,
AOL Time Warner or TWC.

     Under the trust, the trustee will have exclusive  authority to exercise any
management or governance  rights  associated  with the securities in trust.  The
trustee will also have the obligation, subject to our rights as described in the
last sentence of this paragraph,  to exercise available  registration  rights to
effect the sale of such  securities  in a manner  intended to maximize the value
received consistent with the goal of disposing such securities in their entirety
by November 2007.  Following this time, if any securities  remain in trust,  the
trustee will be obligated to dispose of them as quickly as possible,  and in any
event by May 2008.  The trustee is also  obligated,  through  November  2007, to
effect certain specified types of sale or monetization transactions with respect
to the securities as may be proposed by us from time to time.

     As a condition of the closing of the TWE restructuring,  we will enter into
a three-year  non- exclusive  agreement with AOL Time Warner under which the AOL
High-Speed  Broadband  service would be made available on a portion of our cable
systems passing about 10 million homes.

Bresnan Transaction

     In  February  2003,  we  announced  that we had entered  into a  definitive
agreement with Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC and Bresnan  Communications,  LLC
for us to  transfer  to Bresnan  cable  systems  serving  approximately  317,000
subscribers  in  Montana,  Wyoming,  Colorado  and Utah that we had  acquired in
connection with the Broadband acquisition. We will

                                      - 2 -

<PAGE>

receive  approximately  $525 million in cash,  plus  preferred and common equity
interests in Bresnan  Broadband  Holdings,  in exchange for these cable systems.
The assets for these cable  systems are  reported as assets held for sale in our
consolidated  balance  sheet at December 31, 2002 and the results of  operations
for the period from November 19, 2002 through  December 31, 2002 for these cable
systems are presented as discontinued  operations in our consolidated  statement
of operations.  We have not included these cable systems in our cable  operating
statistics.  We expect this  transaction to close by March 31, 2003,  subject to
customary closing conditions.

Charter Put

     In  connection  with the  Broadband  acquisition,  we  acquired an indirect
interest in a cable joint  venture  with Charter  Communications,  Inc. In April
2002, AT&T exercised its rights to cause Paul G. Allen,  Charter's Chairman,  or
his designee to purchase this indirect interest for  approximately  $725 million
in cash.  The parties agreed to delay the settlement of the purchase until April
14,  2003 while they  negotiated  alternatives  to the  purchase.  We  currently
believe that Mr. Allen or his designee  will  purchase our indirect  interest as
described above.

The Cross-Guarantee Structure

     To simplify  our  capital  structure,  effective  with the  acquisition  of
Broadband,  we and four of our  cable  holding  company  subsidiaries  fully and
unconditionally  guaranteed each other's debt securities and other  indebtedness
for borrowed money. Comcast Holdings is not a guarantor, and none of its debt is
guaranteed.   As  of  December  31,  2002,   $24.729  billion  of  our  and  our
subsidiaries'   debt   securities   were   entitled  to  the   benefits  of  the
cross-guarantee structure.  Comcast MO of Delaware, Inc. (formerly,  MediaOne of
Delaware, Inc. and Continental Cablevision, Inc.) was not originally part of the
cross-guarantee  structure.  On March 12,  2003,  we  announced  the  successful
completion  of a  bondholder  consent  solicitation  related  to  Comcast  MO of
Delaware's $1.7 billion aggregate  principal amount in debt securities to permit
it to become part of the cross- guarantee structure.


                                      - 3 -

<PAGE>

                          DESCRIPTION OF OUR BUSINESSES

         We are involved in three principal lines of business:  Cable,  Commerce
and Content. The following section describes each of these lines of business.

Cable

We currently are the largest cable operator in the United States. As of December
31, 2002, our consolidated  cable operations served 21.3 million  subscribers in
41 states,  passed 39.1 million homes,  and provided  digital cable to more than
6.6  million   subscribers,   high-speed  Internet  to  more  than  3.6  million
subscribers and phone service to more than 1.4 million subscribers.

The table  below  summarizes  certain  information  for our cable  systems as of
December 31 (homes and subscribers in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       2002(1)
                                           -----------------------------
                                                       Newly
                                            Total    Acquired  Historical  2001(2)   2000(2)   1999(2)     1998
                                           --------  --------- ------------------- --------- ---------  ---------
<S>                                         <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
Cable
    Homes Passed (3).....................    39,150     24,961    14,189    13,929    12,679    9,522       7,382
    Subscribers (4)......................    21,305     12,766     8,539     8,471     7,607    5,720       4,511
    Penetration..........................      54.4 %     51.1 %    60.2%     60.8%     60.0%    60.1%       61.1%
Digital Cable
    "Digital Ready" Subscribers (5)......    21,305     12,766     8,539     8,375     7,258    4,637       1,570
    Subscribers (6)......................     6,620      4,374     2,246      1,741    1,207      454          72
    Penetration..........................      31.1 %     34.3 %    26.3%    20.8%      16.6%     9.8%        4.6%
High-Speed Internet
    "Available" Homes (7)................    30,072     17,461    12,611    10,400     6,360    3,259       1,804
    Subscribers..........................     3,620      2,094     1,526       948       400      142          51
    Penetration..........................      12.0 %     12.0 %    12.1%      9.1%      6.3%     4.4%        2.8%
Phone (8)
    "Available" Homes (7)................     8,712      8,438       274
    Subscribers..........................     1,438      1,398        40
    Penetration..........................      16.5 %     16.6 %    14.4%
<FN>
(1)   On November  18, 2002,  we  consummated  the  Broadband  acquisition.  For
      information as of December 31, 2002, we provide data with respect to cable
      systems  attributable to Comcast Holdings  Corporation  (formerly  Comcast
      Corporation  and  now our  wholly  owned  subsidiary)  under  the  heading
      "Historical"  and data  with  respect  to cable  systems  attributable  to
      Broadband  under the heading "Newly  Acquired." The Broadband  acquisition
      substantially  increased  the  size of our  cable  operations  and  direct
      comparisons  of our cable  information  for periods  prior to November 18,
      2002 to  subsequent  periods are not  meaningful.  The  information  as of
      December 31, 2002 excludes the operating  statistics for the cable systems
      held for sale to Bresnan.
(2)   In April 1999,  we acquired a  controlling  interest in Jones  Intercable,
      Inc. In January 2000, we acquired Lenfest  Communications,  Inc. and began
      consolidating the results of Comcast  Cablevision of Garden State, L.P. In
      August 2000, we acquired  Prime  Communications  LLC. On December 31, 2000
      and January 1, 2001, we completed our cable  systems  exchanges  with AT&T
      and  Adelphia  Communications,  respectively.  In April and June 2001,  we
      acquired  cable  systems  serving an  aggregate of  approximately  697,000
      subscribers from AT&T. The subscriber  information as of December 31, 2000
      excludes the effects of our exchange with AT&T.
(3)   A home is "passed" if we can connect it to our distribution system without
      further extending the transmission lines. As described in Note 4 below, in
      the case of certain  multiple  dwelling units, or MDUs, homes "passed" are
      counted on an adjusted basis.
(4)   Generally,  a dwelling or commercial unit with one or more television sets
      connected  to a system  counts  as one  cable  subscriber.  In the case of
      certain MDUs, we count cable subscribers on an FCC equivalent basis.
(5)   A subscriber is "digital  ready" if the subscriber is in a market where we
      have launched our digital cable  service.
(6)   A dwelling with one or more digital  converter boxes counts as one digital
      cable subscriber.  On average, as of December 31, 2002, each digital cable
      subscriber had 1.4 digital set-top boxes.
(7)   A home is  "available"  if we can  connect it to our  distribution  system
      without further upgrading the transmission  lines and we offer the service
      in that area.
(8)   Prior to the Broadband acquisition,  the number of phone "available" homes
      and subscribers was not material.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Cable Services

     We  offer  a  variety  of  services  over  our  cable  networks,  including
traditional analog video, digital cable,  high-speed Internet and phone service.
Available  service  offerings  depend  on the  bandwidth  capacity  of the cable
system. The greater the bandwidth, the greater the information carrying capacity
of the system. Prior to the Broadband acquisition,  86% of our cable subscribers
were  served by a system  with a  capacity  of at least  750-MHz  and 95% with a
capacity of at least 550-MHz and capable of handling two-way communications.  As
of December 31, 2002,  approximately 82% of our cable subscribers were served by
a system  with a capacity of at least  550-MHz  and capable of handling  two-way
communications. We expect to make substantial capital expenditures over the next
two years to  complete  the  rebuild  and  upgrade of the newly  acquired  cable
systems.  By deploying fiber optic cable and upgrading the technical  quality of
our cable networks,  we can increase


                                      - 4 -

<PAGE>

the reliability and capacity of our systems and we can deliver  additional video
programming  and other  services  such as  enhanced  digital  video,  high-speed
Internet and phone.

     Traditional Analog Video Services

     We  receive  the  majority  of our  revenues  from  subscription  services.
Subscribers  typically pay us on a monthly  basis and generally may  discontinue
services  at any time.  Monthly  subscription  rates and  related  charges  vary
according  to the type of service  selected  and the type of  equipment  used by
subscribers.

     We offer a full range of traditional analog video services.  We tailor both
our basic channel  line-up and our additional  channel  offerings to each system
according to demographics,  programming  preferences and local  regulation.  Our
analog service offerings include the following:

     Basic  programming.  Our basic cable service typically  consists of between
10-20 channels of programming.  This service  generally  consists of programming
provided by national television  networks,  local broadcast television stations,
locally-originated  programming,  including  governmental and public access, and
limited satellite-delivered programming.

     Expanded basic  programming.  Our expanded  basic cable service,  which may
vary in size depending on the system's channel  capacity,  generally  includes a
group of  satellite-delivered or non-broadcast channels in addition to the basic
channel line-up.

     Premium services.  Our premium services generally offer, without commercial
interruption,  feature motion pictures, live and taped sporting events, concerts
and other special  features.  The charge for premium  services  depends upon the
type and number of premium channels selected by the subscriber.

     Pay-per-view programming.  Our pay-per-view service permits our subscribers
to order,  for a separate fee,  individual  feature motion  pictures and special
event programs, such as professional boxing, professional wrestling and concerts
on an unedited, commercial-free basis.

     Digital Cable Services

     Digital  compression  technology  enables us to substantially  increase the
number of channels our cable systems can carry,  thereby providing a significant
number of additional programming choices to our subscribers. Digital compression
technology  can convert up to twelve  analog  signals into a digital  format and
compress  these  signals  into the  bandwidth  normally  occupied  by one analog
signal.  At the home, a set-top video terminal,  often referred to as a "digital
set-top box," converts the digital signal into analog signals that can be viewed
on a television set.

     Subscribers  typically pay us on a monthly basis for digital cable services
and generally may discontinue services at any time. Monthly rates vary generally
according  to the level of  service  and the  number of  digital  set-top  boxes
selected by the subscriber.

     Subscribers  to our  digital  cable  service  receive  one or  more  of the
following:

      o     an interactive program guide,

      o     multiple channels of digital music,

      o     basic and expanded basic programming,

      o     "multiplexes"  of  premium  channels  which are varied as to time of
            broadcast or programming content theme,

      o     additional  pay-per-view  programming,  such  as  more  pay-per-view
            options and/or frequent showings of the most popular films,

      o     video-on-demand  service,  commonly known as VOD,  including popular
            television programs at no additional charge, and

      o     high-definition television.

     We have and will  continue to upgrade our cable systems so that we are able
to provide  these and other new services such as  interactive  television to our
subscribers.

     High-Speed Internet Services

     Residential  subscribers  can connect  their  personal  computers via cable
modems to access online  information,  including the Internet,  at faster speeds
than that of  conventional  modems.  Prior to March 2002, in areas served by our
cable  systems  we  marketed  high-  speed  Internet   services  operated  by  a
third-party  Internet service  provider.  By March 2002, we had moved all of our
high-speed  Internet  subscribers  to our own high- speed Internet  gateway.  In
addition to offering our own high-speed  Internet  service,  we have  agreements
with a number of third-party Internet service providers, or ISPs, under which we
make  available  access  to our  facilities  and the ISP  markets  a  high-speed
Internet  service  that is  provided  over our cable  systems.  We also  provide
businesses  with  Internet   connectivity   solutions  and  networked   business
applications.


                                      - 5 -

<PAGE>


     Phone Services

     In some of the areas where cable plant has been upgraded,  we use our cable
network to provide  local  telephone  services  and to resell  third-party  long
distance services to our phone subscribers. We currently offer phone services to
subscribers in 15 markets.

     Advertising Sales

     We generate  revenues from the sale of advertising time to local,  regional
and  national  advertisers  on non-  broadcast  channels we carry over our cable
systems.

     Other Revenue Sources

     We also generate  revenues from  installation  services,  commissions  from
third-party electronic retailing and from other services.

     Sales and Marketing

     Our sales  efforts are primarily  directed  toward  generating  incremental
revenues in our franchise  areas and  increasing  the number of  subscribers  we
serve. We sell our products and services through:

      o     telemarketing,

      o     direct mail advertising,

      o     door-to-door selling,

      o     cable television advertising,

      o     local media advertising, and

      o     retail outlets.

     Programming

     We  generally  acquire  a  license  for  the  programming  we  sell  to our
subscribers  by paying a monthly  fee to the  licensor on a per  subscriber  per
channel basis. Our programming costs are increased by:

      o     growth in the number of subscribers,

      o     expansion of the number of channels provided to subscribers, and

      o     increases in contract rates from programming suppliers.

     We attempt to secure long-term  programming contracts with volume discounts
and/or  marketing  support  and  incentives  from  programming  suppliers.   Our
programming  contracts  are generally for a fixed period of time and are subject
to negotiated  renewal.  We expect our  programming  costs to remain our largest
single expense item for the foreseeable  future.  In recent years, the cable and
satellite video industries have  experienced a substantial  increase in the cost
of  programming,  particularly  sports  programming.  We expect this increase to
continue,  and we may not be able to pass  programming  cost increases on to our
subscribers.  The inability to pass these  programming  cost increases on to our
subscribers  would have a material adverse impact on our operating  results.  In
addition,  as we upgrade the channel capacity of our systems and add programming
to our  basic,  expanded  basic  and  digital  programming  tiers,  we may  face
increased programming costs.

     We also expect to be subject to  increasing  financial and other demands by
broadcasters to obtain the required consent for the  retransmission of broadcast
programming to our subscribers.  We cannot predict the financial impact of these
negotiations  or the effect on our  subscribers  should we be  required  to stop
offering this programming.

     Customer Service

     We have  organized  most of our cable  systems  into  geographic  clusters.
Clustering  improves  our ability to sell  advertising,  enhances our ability to
efficiently introduce and market new products, and allows us to more efficiently
and effectively  provide customer service and support. As part of our clustering
strategy,  we have  consolidated  our local customer  service  operations of our
historical  operations  into large  regional call centers.  These  regional call
centers have technologically advanced telephone systems that provide 24-hour per
day, 7-day per week call answering capability, telemarketing and other services.
In 2003,  we anticipate  opening new call centers and  expanding  certain of our
existing  call  centers to provide  customer  service  and  support to the newly
acquired cable systems.

     Competition

     Analog Video and Digital Cable Services

     Our cable systems compete with a number of different  sources which provide
news, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:

      o     program  distributors that use direct broadcast  satellite,  or DBS,
            systems   that   transmit   satellite   signals   containing   video
            programming,  data and  other  information  to  receiving  dishes of
            varying sizes located on the subscriber's premises,

      o     local television broadcast stations that provide off-air programming
            which can be received using an antenna and a television set,

      o     satellite  master  antenna  television  systems,  commonly  known as
            SMATVs,  which  generally

                                      - 6 -


<PAGE>

            serve  condominiums,  apartment and office complexes and residential
            developments,

      o     other  operators  who  build  and  operate  wireline  communications
            systems  in the same  communities  that we  serve,  including  those
            operating as franchised  cable  operations  or under an  alternative
            regulatory scheme known as Open Video Systems, or OVS,

      o     interactive   online   computer    services,    including   Internet
            distribution of movies,

      o     newspapers, magazines and book stores,

      o     movie theaters,

      o     live concerts and sporting events, and

      o     video stores and home video products.

     In recent years,  Congress has enacted  legislation and the FCC has adopted
regulatory  policies intended to provide a favorable  operating  environment for
existing  competitors  and for potential new  competitors  to our cable systems.
These competitors include DBS, wireline communications  providers, also known as
overbuilders,  SMATVs and Multichannel Multipoint Distribution Service, or MMDS.
The FCC has recently created a new wireless service, known as Multichannel Video
Distribution and Data Service, or MVDDS, that we also expect to compete with our
cable  systems.  In order to compete  effectively,  our cable systems  strive to
provide,  at a reasonable  price to  subscribers,  new  products  and  services,
superior technical performance,  superior customer service and a greater variety
of video programming.

     DBS  Systems.   According  to  recent   government  and  industry  reports,
conventional,   medium  and  high-power   satellites   currently  provide  video
programming  to over 20 million  customers in the United  States.  DBS providers
with high-power  satellites  typically offer to their  subscribers more than 300
channels of programming, including programming services substantially similar to
those  provided by our cable  systems.  Two  companies,  DIRECTV  and  EchoStar,
provide service to substantially all of these DBS subscribers.

     DBS  service can be  received  throughout  the  continental  United  States
through  the  installation  of a small  roof top or  side-mounted  antenna.  DBS
systems use video  compression  technology  to  increase  channel  capacity  and
digital   technology  to  improve  the  quality  and  quantity  of  the  signals
transmitted to their subscribers.  Our digital cable service is competitive with
the programming,  channel capacity and the digital quality of signals  delivered
to subscribers by DBS systems.

     Federal legislation establishes, among other things, a permanent compulsory
copyright license that permits satellite  carriers to retransmit local broadcast
television  signals to subscribers who reside in the local television  station's
market. These companies are transmitting local broadcast signals in most markets
which we serve. As a result,  satellite carriers are competitive to cable system
operators like us because they offer programming which closely resembles what we
offer. These satellite carriers are attempting to expand their service offerings
to include, among other things, high-speed Internet service.

     SMATV.  Our cable systems also compete for subscribers  with SMATV systems.
SMATV  system  operators  typically  are not  subject to  regulation  like local
franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer subscribers both improved
reception of local television stations and many of the same satellite- delivered
programming  services  offered by franchised  cable systems.  In addition,  some
SMATV operators are developing and/or offering  packages of telephony,  data and
video services to private residential and commercial developments.  SMATV system
operators often enter into exclusive service  agreements with building owners or
homeowners'  associations,  although  some states have  enacted  laws to provide
cable systems access to these complexes.

     Overbuilds.  We  operate  our cable  systems  pursuant  to a  non-exclusive
franchise  that is  issued  by the  community's  governing  body  such as a city
council, a county board of supervisors or a state regulatory agency. Federal law
prohibits  franchising   authorities  from  unreasonably  denying  requests  for
additional franchises,  and it permits franchising  authorities to operate cable
systems.  Companies that traditionally have not provided cable services and that
have substantial  financial resources (such as public utilities that own certain
of the poles to which our cables are attached) may also obtain cable  franchises
and may provide  competing  communications  services.  Certain  facilities-based
competitors offer cable and other communications services in various areas where
we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based competitors will develop
in other franchise areas that we serve.

     Local telephone companies.  Federal law allows local telephone companies to
provide,  directly  to  subscribers,   a  wide  variety  of  services  that  are
competitive  with our cable  services,  including  video and  Internet  services
within and outside their telephone service areas.  Telephone companies and other
businesses construct and operate  communications  facilities that provide access
to the Internet and distribute  interactive  computer-based  services,  data and
other non-video services to homes and businesses.


                                      - 7 -

<PAGE>



     High-Speed Internet Services

     Most of our  cable  systems  are  currently  offering  high-speed  Internet
services to subscribers. These systems compete with a number of other companies,
many of whom have substantial resources, such as:

      o     existing ISPs,

      o     local telephone companies, and

      o     long distance telephone companies.

     The  deployment  of digital  subscriber  line,  or DSL,  technology  allows
Internet  access to be  provided to  subscribers  over  telephone  lines at data
transmission  speeds  substantially  greater  than that of  conventional  analog
modems. Numerous companies,  including telephone companies,  have introduced DSL
service,  and certain  telephone  companies  are seeking to provide  high- speed
Internet  services  without  regard  to  present  service  boundaries  and other
regulatory restrictions.  The FCC recently adopted an order that will reduce the
obligations of local telephone companies to offer their broadband  facilities on
a wholesale basis to competitors, and the FCC is considering further measures to
deregulate the retail broadband  offerings of local telephone companies as well.
Congress may also consider measures to deregulate such broadband offerings.

     A number of cable operators have reached agreements to provide unaffiliated
ISPs access to their cable systems in the absence of regulatory requirements. We
reached "access" agreements with several national and regional third-party ISPs.
In addition,  in connection with the  restructuring of TWE, we will enter into a
three- year  non-exclusive  access agreement with AOL Time Warner.  We also have
agreed to offer  Microsoft an access  agreement on terms no less  favorable than
those provided to other ISPs with respect to specified cable systems.  We cannot
provide any assurance,  however,  that  regulatory  authorities  will not impose
"open  access"  or  similar  requirements  on us  as  part  of an  industry-wide
requirement.   These   requirements   could  adversely  affect  our  results  of
operations.

     Phone Services

     Our phone service  competes  against  incumbent  local  exchange  carriers,
cellular  telephone  service  providers and competitive  local exchange carriers
(including  established long distance companies) in the provision of local voice
services.  Many of these  carriers  are  expanding  their  offerings  to include
high-speed Internet service,  such as DSL. The incumbent local exchange carriers
have   substantial   capital   and  other   resources,   longstanding   customer
relationships and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few
competitive  local  exchange  carriers  also have  existing  local  networks and
significant financial resources.

     We expect advances in communications  technology, as well as changes in the
marketplace  and the  regulatory  and  legislative  environment  to occur in the
future.  We refer you to page 11 for a detailed  discussion of  legislative  and
regulatory  factors.  Other new  technologies  and  services may develop and may
compete with services that our cable systems offer. Consequently,  we are unable
to predict  the effect  that  ongoing or future  developments  might have on our
business and operations.

Commerce

     QVC is a domestic and  international  electronic media general  merchandise
retailer which produces and distributes merchandise-focused television programs,
via satellite,  to affiliated video program  distributors for  retransmission to
subscribers.  At QVC,  program  hosts and guests  describe and  demonstrate  the
products and viewers  place orders  directly  with QVC. As of December 31, 2002,
QVC was available,  on a full and part-time  basis, to 85.9 million homes in the
United  States,  11.4 million homes in the United Kingdom  ("UK"),  25.8 million
homes in Germany and 8.4 million  homes in Japan.  We estimate that 13.3 million
homes in Germany have programmed  their television sets to receive this service.
We own approximately 57% of QVC.

     On March 3, 2003, we announced that Liberty Media  Corporation  delivered a
notice to us,  pursuant to the  stockholders  agreement  between us and Liberty,
that triggers an exit rights process with respect to Liberty's  approximate  42%
interest in QVC. We and Liberty will attempt to negotiate  the fair market value
of QVC prior to March 31, 2003.  If we and Liberty  cannot  agree,  an appraisal
process will determine the value of QVC. We will then have the right to purchase
Liberty's  interest in QVC at the determined  value.  We may pay Liberty for the
QVC stock in cash, in a promissory note maturing not more than three years after
issuance,  in our equity  securities  or in a combination  of these,  subject to
Liberty's  right to request  payment in all equity  securities  and the parties'
obligation to use reasonable  efforts to consummate the purchase in the most tax
efficient  method  available  (provided  that  we  are  not  required  to  issue
securities  representing more than 4.9% of the outstanding equity or vote of our
common stock).  If we elect not to purchase  Liberty's  interest in QVC, Liberty
then will have a similar right to purchase our  approximate 57% interest in QVC.
If neither we nor Liberty  elect to purchase the interest of the other,  then we
and Liberty are required to use our best efforts to sell QVC;  either company is
permitted  to be a purchaser  in any such sale.  We and Liberty may agree not to
enter  into a  transaction,  or may  agree  to a  transaction  other  than  that
specified in the

                                      - 8 -

<PAGE>

stockholders  agreement.  Under the current terms of the stockholders  agreement
between  us and  Liberty,  we would no  longer  control  QVC if we elect  not to
purchase Liberty's interest in QVC.

     Revenue Sources

     QVC sells a variety of consumer products and accessories including jewelry,
housewares,  electronics,  apparel  and  accessories,   collectibles,  toys  and
cosmetics. QVC purchases, or obtains on consignment,  products from domestic and
foreign  manufacturers  and  wholesalers,  often on favorable terms based on the
volume of the transactions. QVC intends to continue introducing new products and
product  lines.  QVC does not depend upon any one  particular  supplier  for any
significant  portion of its  inventory.  QVC's  business is  seasonal,  with the
highest amount of net sales occurring in the fourth quarter.

     Viewers  place  orders to  purchase  QVC  merchandise  by either  calling a
toll-free telephone number to speak to a telemarketing  operator, by using their
touch-tone  telephone to call QVC's integrated  automated  ordering system which
gives customers the ability to place orders without  speaking to a telemarketing
operator,  or by using their personal  computer to place orders on QVC.com.  QVC
uses automatic call distributing equipment to distribute calls to its operators.
The majority of all payments for  purchases are made with a major credit card or
QVC's  private  label credit card.  QVC's  private  label credit card program is
serviced  by  an  unrelated  third  party.   QVC  ships   merchandise  from  its
distribution centers, typically within 24 hours after receipt of an order. QVC's
return  policy  permits  customers to return,  within 30 days,  any  merchandise
purchased for a full refund of the purchase price and original shipping charges.

     Distribution Channels

     In the  United  States,  QVC is  transmitted  live 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week, to 65.5 million cable  television  homes.  An additional 0.4 million cable
television  homes  receive  QVC on a less than full time basis and 20.0  million
home  satellite  dish users receive QVC  programming.  The QVC program  schedule
consists of one-hour and  multi-hour  program  segments.  Each program  theme is
devoted to a  particular  category of product or  lifestyle.  From time to time,
special program segments are devoted to merchandise associated with a particular
celebrity, event, geographical region or seasonal interest.

     QVC also offers an interactive shopping service,  QVC.com, on the Internet.
QVC.com offers a diverse array of merchandise, on-line, 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week.  QVC.com  also  maintains a mailing  list which e- mails  product  news to
customers who choose to receive it.

     QVC Transmission

     A  transponder  on a  communications  satellite  transmits the QVC domestic
signal.  QVC subleases  transponders  for the transmission of its signals to the
UK,  Germany and Japan.  QVC has made  arrangements  in the U.S.  for  redundant
coverage through other  satellites in case of a failure.  To date, QVC has never
had an interruption in programming due to transponder  failure.  We cannot offer
assurances  that there will not be an  interruption  or termination of satellite
transmission due to transponder failure.  Interruption or termination could have
a material adverse effect on QVC's results of operations.

     Program Distributors

     QVC has entered into affiliation agreements with video program distributors
to carry QVC programming.  There are no charges to the programming  distributors
for the  distribution  of QVC.  In return for  carrying  QVC,  each  programming
distributor  receives an allocated  portion,  based upon market share,  of up to
five percent of the net sales of  merchandise  sold to customers  located in the
programming   distributor's  service  area.  QVC  has  entered  into  multi-year
affiliation  agreements  with various cable and satellite  system  operators for
carriage  of QVC  programming.  The  terms of most  affiliation  agreements  are
automatically  renewable for one-year terms unless terminated by either party on
at least 90 days notice  prior to the end of the term.  Most of the  affiliation
agreements  provide for the  programming  distributor  to broadcast  commercials
regarding QVC on other channels and to distribute QVC's advertising  material to
subscribers.

     QVC's business depends on its affiliation with programming distributors for
the  transmission of QVC programming.  If a significant  number of homes were no
longer served because of  termination or non-renewal of affiliation  agreements,
our financial results could be adversely affected. QVC has incentive programs to
induce programming  distributors to enter into or extend affiliation agreements,
to increase the number of homes under  existing  affiliation  agreements,  or to
enhance  channel  placement of the QVC  programming.  These  incentives  include
various forms of marketing,  carriage and launch  support.  QVC will continue to
recruit additional programming distributors and seek to enlarge its audience.

     Competition

     QVC operates in a highly competitive environment.  As a general merchandise
retailer,  QVC  competes  for


                                      - 9 -

<PAGE>

consumer  expenditures  with the entire retail industry,  including  department,
discount,  warehouse and specialty stores,  mail order and other direct sellers,
Internet  retailers,  shopping center and mall tenants and  conventional  retail
stores.  On  television,  QVC competes with other programs for channel space and
viewer loyalty  against similar  electronic  retailing  programming,  as well as
against  alternative  programming  supplied by other  sources,  including  news,
public  affairs,  entertainment  and  sports  programmers.  The  use of  digital
compression  provides  programming  distributors  with greater channel capacity.
While  greater  channel  capacity  increases  the  opportunity  for  QVC  to  be
distributed,  it  also  may  adversely  impact  QVC's  ability  to  compete  for
television  viewers  to the  extent  it  results  in  higher  channel  position,
placement of QVC in separate  programming  tiers, or the addition of competitive
channels.

     Content

     We  have  made   investments  in  cable   television   networks  and  other
programming-related enterprises as a means of generating additional revenues and
subscriber interest. Our consolidated programming investments as of December 31,
2002 include:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         Economic
                                         Ownership
Investment                              Percentage                         Description
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>           <C>
Comcast Spectacor                         66.3%          Live sporting events, concerts and other events
Comcast SportsNet                         78.3           Regional sports programming and events
Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic           100.0           Regional sports programming and events
Cable Sports Southeast                    62.2           Regional sports programming and events
E! Entertainment                          50.1           Entertainment-related news and original programming
Style                                     50.1           Lifestyle-related programming
The Golf Channel                          91.3           Golf-related programming
Outdoor Life Network                     100.0           Outdoor sports and leisure programming
CN8-The Comcast Network                  100.0           Regional and local programming
G4                                        93.6           Programming focused on video and computer games
</TABLE>


                           ---------------------------


     Consolidated Programming Investments

     Comcast  Spectacor.  Comcast  Spectacor  is our  group of  businesses  that
perform live sporting  events and that own or manage  facilities  and venues for
sports  activities,  sports events,  concerts and other special events.  Comcast
Spectacor consists  principally of the Philadelphia  Flyers NHL hockey team, the
Philadelphia  76ers NBA basketball  team and two large  multi-purpose  arenas in
Philadelphia.

     We and the minority owner group in Comcast Spectacor each have the right to
initiate  an  "exit"  process  under  which  the fair  market  value of  Comcast
Spectacor  would be determined by appraisal.  Following such  determination,  we
would have the option to acquire the interests in Comcast Spectacor owned by the
minority  owner group based on the  appraised  fair market  value.  If we do not
exercise this option,  we and the minority owner group would then be required to
use our best efforts to sell Comcast Spectacor.

     Comcast   SportsNet.   Comcast   SportsNet,   or   CSN,   is  our   24-hour
terrestrially-delivered   network  which  provides  sports-related  programming,
including the Philadelphia  Flyers NHL hockey team, the  Philadelphia  76ers NBA
basketball team and the Philadelphia Phillies MLB baseball team to approximately
2.9 million  subscribers in the Philadelphia  region. The exit process described
in the previous paragraph includes the minority owner group's interest in CSN.

     Comcast  SportsNet  Mid-Atlantic.  Comcast SportsNet  Mid-Atlantic,  or CSN
Mid-Atlantic,   is  our  24-hour   satellite-delivered  network  which  provides
sports-related  programming,  including the Baltimore Orioles MLB baseball team,
the  Washington  Wizards NBA  basketball  team and the  Washington  Capitals NHL
hockey team.  CSN  Mid-Atlantic  serves  approximately  4.3 million  subscribers
primarily in Delaware, Maryland,  Pennsylvania,  Virginia,  Washington, D.C. and
West Virginia.

     Cable   Sports   Southeast.   Cable   Sports   Southeast,   or  CSS,  is  a
satellite-delivered network which provides sports-related programming and sports
news geared toward college  athletics to approximately  3.9 million  subscribers
primarily in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky,  Mississippi,  North
Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee.

     E! Entertainment.  E! Entertainment is our 24-hour network with programming
dedicated to the world of entertainment. Programming formats include behind-the-


                                     - 10 -



<PAGE>


scenes specials,  original movies and series, news, talk shows and comprehensive
coverage of  entertainment  industry awards shows and film festivals  worldwide.
The network has  distribution  to  approximately  71 million  subscribers in the
United States.

     We hold the majority of our interest in E!  Entertainment  through  Comcast
Entertainment  Holdings,  LLC,  which is owned 50.1% by us and 49.9% by The Walt
Disney Company.  Under a limited  liability company agreement between Disney and
us, we  control  E!  Entertainment's  operations.  As a result of the  Broadband
acquisition and in certain other  circumstances,  under the agreement  Disney is
entitled to trigger a potential  exit  process in which  Entertainment  Holdings
would have the right to  purchase  Disney's  entire  interest  in  Entertainment
Holdings at its then fair market value (as determined by an appraisal  process).
If Disney exercises this right within a specified time period, and Entertainment
Holdings elects not to purchase Disney's interest,  Disney then has the right to
purchase,  at  appraised  fair  market  value,  either  our entire  interest  in
Entertainment Holdings or all of the shares of stock of E! Entertainment held by
Entertainment Holdings. In the event that Disney exercises its right and neither
Disney's nor our interest is purchased,  Entertainment Holdings will continue to
be owned as it is today, as if the exit process had not been triggered.

     Style.  Style,  a division  of E!  Entertainment,  is our  24-hour  network
dedicated  to fashion,  home  design,  beauty,  health,  fitness and more,  with
distribution to approximately 24 million subscribers in the United States.

     The  Golf  Channel.  The  Golf  Channel  is  our  24-hour  network  devoted
exclusively to golf  programming  with  distribution to approximately 47 million
subscribers  in the  United  States.  The  programming  schedule  includes  live
tournaments, golf instruction programs and golf news.

     Outdoor Life Network.  Outdoor Life Network is our 24-hour  network devoted
exclusively to outdoor  adventure  sports and outdoor  leisure  recreation  with
distribution to approximately 43 million  subscribers in the United States.  Its
programming  features the premiere  events and series in a wide range of outdoor
activities  including  biking,  sailing,  skiing,   snowboarding,   professional
bullriding and fishing.

     CN8-The   Comcast   Network.   CN8-The  Comcast  Network  is  our  regional
programming  network  delivered to approximately 6 million cable  subscribers in
Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New
Hampshire. CN8 provides exclusive original programs,  including news, talk, high
school,  college  and  professional  sports,  cooking,  music,  comedy and other
family-oriented entertainment.

     G4.  G4 is our  24-hour  network  dedicated  to the  world of video  games.
Targeted to young viewers 12-34,  G4 is committed to creating a lifestyle  brand
that is the  source of  entertainment,  news and  information  about  electronic
games, including video, computer,  online and wireless platforms. We launched G4
in April 2002. G4 has distribution to approximately 9 million subscribers.

     Other Programming Interests. We also own other non-controlling interests in
programming investments including iN DEMAND, a pay-per-view and video-on- demand
service, the Discovery Health Channel, Fox Sports New England, New England Cable
News and Pittsburgh Cable News Channel.

                           ---------------------------

                           LEGISLATION AND REGULATION

     Our  cable  and  phone  businesses  are  subject  to  numerous   regulatory
requirements,  prohibitions and limitations imposed by various federal and state
laws,  local ordinances and our franchise  agreements.  Our commerce and content
businesses  are generally  not subject to direct  governmental  regulation.  Our
high-speed Internet business,  while not currently regulated,  may be subject to
regulation in the future.  Laws and regulations  affect the prices we can charge
for some services, such as basic cable service and associated  customer-premises
equipment,  the costs we incur - for example,  for  attaching our wires to poles
owned by utility  companies,  the relationships we establish with our suppliers,
subscribers and competitors, and many other aspects of our business.

     The most  significant  federal law  affecting  our cable  businesses is the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended. The provisions of the Communications Act
and the  manner in which the FCC,  state and local  authorities,  and the courts
implement  and  interpret  those  provisions,  affect our ability to develop and
execute  business  plans,  our  ability  to raise  capital  and the  competitive
dynamics  between  and  among  different  sectors  of  the   communications  and
entertainment  industries in which we operate. The FCC also has the authority to
enforce its  regulations  through  the  imposition  of  substantial  fines,  the
issuance of cease and desist orders and the  imposition of other  administrative
sanctions,  such as the revocation of FCC licenses needed to operate some of the
transmission facilities we use in connection with our cable businesses.

     We believe we are currently in substantial


                                     - 11 -

<PAGE>

compliance with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements imposed by,
or under, the Communications  Act, but caution that the precise  requirements of
the law are not  always  clear.  Moreover,  many  laws  and  regulations  can be
interpreted  in   after-the-fact   enforcement   proceedings  or  private  party
litigation in a manner that is inconsistent  with the judgments we have made. We
also note  that  regulators  at all  levels of  government  frequently  consider
changing, and sometimes do change, existing rules or interpretations of existing
rules,  or prescribe new ones.  Judicial  decisions  often alter the  regulatory
framework in ways that are  inconsistent  with regulator,  business and investor
expectations.  In addition,  our cable business can be significantly affected by
the  enactment  of new  legislation.  Owing  in  part to the  "public  interest"
ramifications  traditionally  associated  with  ownership of  electronic  media,
Congress  seriously  considers  the  enactment of new  legislative  requirements
virtually every year. Even though new laws  infrequently  result, we always face
the risk that  Congress  will approve  legislation  significantly  affecting the
cable industry.

     A major objective of Congress and the FCC is to increase competition in all
communications  services,  including those central to our business. For example,
over the last ten years,  Congress removed barriers to local telephone companies
offering video services in their local service areas, and the FCC has authorized
MVDDS, a new wireless service for providing multichannel video programming,  and
may soon  consider a proposal that could allow utility power lines to be used to
provide video and  high-speed  Internet  services.  Our cable  business could be
affected by any new competitors that enter the video  marketplace as a result of
these and similar  efforts by Congress  or the FCC. In  particular,  we could be
materially  disadvantaged  if we are  subject  to new  regulations  that  do not
equally affect our satellite, wireline and wireless competitors.

     There are potential  risks  associated  with various  proceedings  that are
currently  pending  at the FCC,  in the  courts,  and before  federal  and state
legislatures  and  local  franchise   authorities.   We  believe  few  of  these
proceedings  hold the potential to materially  affect our ability to conduct our
cable business. Among the more substantial areas of exposure are the following:

     Broadband  Acquisition.  The FCC  approved  the  Broadband  acquisition  in
November  2002  subject  to  various  conditions.  The  most  significant  are a
requirement for the  divestiture of our interest in TWE, a requirement  that the
TWE interest be placed in trust pending divesture, and safeguards that limit our
involvement in the  programming-related  activities of TWE and two  partnerships
held  jointly  by us and TWE.  Complying  with these  conditions  will limit our
flexibility  as to the timing and nature of a sale of the TWE  interest  and, in
the interim,  will constrain our business dealings with TWE and AOL Time Warner.
We have fully complied with those  conditions,  and are committed to meeting our
obligations under the FCC's merger order going-forward.

     Ownership Limits.  The FCC is considering  imposing  "horizontal  ownership
limits" that would limit the  percentage  of  multichannel  video  subscribers -
those that subscribe to cable, DBS, MMDS and other  multichannel  distributors -
that any single  provider  could serve  nationwide.  A federal  appellate  court
struck down the previous 30% limit,  and the FCC is now  considering  this issue
anew. As we already serve nearly 29% of multichannel video  subscribers,  limits
similar to those originally imposed would restrict our ability to take advantage
of future  growth  opportunities.  The FCC is also  assessing  whether it should
reinstate  "vertical  ownership limits" on the number of affiliated  programming
services a cable  operator may carry on its cable systems (the previous limit of
40% of the first 75 channels had also been invalidated by the federal  appellate
court).  While our video programming  interests are modest,  new vertical limits
could  affect  our  content-  related  business  plans.   Finally,  the  FCC  is
considering revisions to its ownership attribution rules that would affect which
cable  subscribers  are counted under any horizontal  ownership  limit and which
programming interests are counted for purposes of a vertical ownership limit.

     Pricing.  The  Communications  Act and the FCC's  regulations  and policies
limit the prices that cable systems may charge for basic  services and equipment
in  communities  that are not subject to  effective  competition,  as defined by
federal  law.  Failure to comply  with these  rate  rules  could  result in rate
reductions and refunds for subscribers. In addition, various advocacy groups are
urging Congress to impose new rate regulations on the cable industry.  We cannot
now predict  whether or when  Congress may agree to these or similar  proposals.
Also,  various  competitors  are  trying  to  persuade  the FCC and the  Justice
Department to limit our ability to respond to increased  competition by offering
promotions or other  discounts in an effort to retain  existing  subscribers  or
regain those we have lost.  We believe our  competitive  pricing  practices  are
lawful  and  pro-competitive.   If  we  cannot  make  individualized  offers  to
subscribers  that would otherwise  choose a different  provider,  our subscriber
attrition may increase, or our overall prices may need to be reduced, or both.

     High-Speed  Internet Service.  Ever since high-speed cable Internet service
was introduced,  some local governments and various competitors sought to impose
regulatory  requirements on how we deal with third-party  ISPs. Thus far, only a
few local  governments  have


                                     - 12 -

<PAGE>

imposed  such  requirements,  and  the  courts  have  invalidated  all of  them.
Likewise,  the  FCC has  refused  to  treat  our  service  as a  common  carrier
"telecommunications  service," but has instead  classified it as an  "interstate
information  service," which has historically  meant that no regulations  apply.
Nonetheless,  the FCC's decision remains subject to judicial review - a decision
by a federal  appellate court is expected later this year. In addition,  the FCC
itself is still considering whether it should impose any regulatory requirements
and also whether  local  franchising  authorities  should be permitted to impose
fees or  other  requirements,  such  as  service  quality  or  customer  service
standards.  A few  franchising  authorities  have  sued us  seeking  payment  of
franchise fees on high-speed  Internet service  revenues.  Further,  a number of
software and content  providers and electronic  retailers are now urging the FCC
to adopt certain  "nondiscrimination  principles" that purport to be intended to
allow  Internet  customers  access to the  Internet  content  of their  choosing
(something we already  provide).  We cannot now predict whether these or similar
regulations will be adopted and, if so, what effects, if any, they would have on
our business.

     Internet  Regulation.  Congress and federal  regulators have adopted a wide
range of measures  affecting  Internet  use,  including,  for example,  consumer
privacy, copyright protection, defamation liability, taxation and obscenity, and
state  and  local  governmental   organizations  have  adopted  Internet-related
regulations,   as  well.  These  various  governmental  jurisdictions  are  also
considering  additional  regulations  in these and other areas,  such as service
pricing,  service and product quality, and intellectual property ownership.  The
adoption of new laws or the  adaptation of existing  laws to the Internet  could
have a material adverse effect on our Internet business.

     Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent. Cable companies are currently subject to
a requirement that they carry, without compensation, the programming transmitted
by most commercial and non-commercial local television stations.  Alternatively,
local television stations may negotiate for  "retransmission  consent," that is,
terms and conditions to govern our ability to transmit the TV broadcast  signals
that cable subscribers expect to receive. As broadcasters transition from analog
to digital transmission technologies,  the FCC is considering whether to require
cable  companies to  simultaneously  carry both analog and digital  signals of a
single  broadcaster,  and once  digital  carriage  is  required,  whether  cable
companies may be required to carry multiple  digital  program  streams that each
broadcaster  may  transmit.  If either of those  questions  is  answered  in the
affirmative,  we would have less freedom to allocate the usable  spectrum of our
cable plant to provide the services that we believe will be of greatest interest
to our  subscribers.  This could  diminish  our  ability  to attract  and retain
subscribers.  We cannot now predict whether the FCC will impose these or similar
carriage obligations on us.

     Program Access. The Communications Act and the FCC's "program access" rules
prevent  satellite  video  programmers  affiliated  with  cable  operators  from
favoring cable operators over competing multichannel video distributors, such as
DBS, and limit the ability of such  programmers to offer  exclusive  programming
arrangements  to cable  operators.  The FCC recently  extended  the  exclusivity
restrictions through October 2007. The FCC has concluded that the program access
rules do not apply to programming services, such as Comcast SportsNet,  that are
delivered  terrestrially.  However, the FCC has indicated that it may reconsider
how it regulates cable operators with regional sports  programming  interests in
its cable  ownership  rulemaking.  Any decision by the FCC or Congress to single
out  for  new  regulation  cable  operators  like us who  have  regional  sports
programming interests, could have an adverse impact on our cable and programming
businesses.   Some  initiatives  are  underway  to  enact  program   access-type
regulations at the state or local level. We believe any such  regulations  would
be preempted by federal law or otherwise unlawful, but we cannot predict at this
time whether such regulations will be enacted or enforceable.

     Consumer  Electronics  Equipment  Compatibility.  The  FCC has  launched  a
rulemaking  to  implement  a recent  agreement  between  the cable and  consumer
electronics industries aimed at promoting the manufacture of "plug- and-play" TV
sets that can  connect  directly  to the cable  network  without  the need for a
set-top box.  The FCC is  considering  adopting a number of proposed  rules that
would,  among other  things:  direct  cable  operators  to  implement  technical
standards in their networks to support these digital  television  sets;  require
operators  to  provide a  sufficient  supply of  conditional  access  devices to
subscribers who want to receive scrambled  programming services on their digital
television  sets; and require  operators to support basic home recording  rights
and copy protection rules for digital programming content. Failure by the FCC to
implement the agreement could adversely affect our  relationships  with consumer
electronics  retail outlets (where DBS has  traditionally  enjoyed an advantage)
and slow the growth of subscribership to our digital cable service.

     Phone Service.  Our phone  business is subject to federal,  state and local
regulation.   In  general,   the  Communications  Act  imposes   interconnection
requirements and universal service obligations on all telecommunications service
providers,  including  those that  provide  traditional  circuit-switched  phone
service over cable  facilities,  and more  significant  regulations on incumbent
local exchange carriers,  such as Verizon and

                                     - 13 -

<PAGE>

SBC. The FCC has initiated several  rulemakings  which, in the aggregate,  could
significantly  change the rules that apply to telephone  competition,  including
the  relationship  between  wireless and wireline  providers,  long distance and
local  providers,  and incumbents and new entrants,  and it is unclear how those
proceedings  will affect our phone business.  We are also  conducting  trials of
Internet  Protocol phone service on our cable network,  and will begin a limited
commercial  offering  in 2003.  While  the FCC and  most  state  public  utility
commissions  have thus far refrained  from  regulating  Internet  Protocol phone
service,  it is  uncertain  whether  regulators  will  continue  to follow  that
approach.

     Franchise  Matters.  Cable operators  generally operate their cable systems
pursuant to non-exclusive franchises granted by a franchising authority or other
state or local governmental entity. While the terms and conditions of franchises
vary materially from  jurisdiction to jurisdiction,  these franchises  typically
last for a fixed term,  obligate the  franchisee to pay franchise  fees and meet
service quality, customer service and other requirements,  and are terminable if
the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions.  The Communications Act
includes provisions  governing the franchising process,  including,  among other
things,  renewal procedures  designed to protect incumbent  franchisees  against
arbitrary  denials of renewal.  We anticipate that our future franchise  renewal
prospects generally will be favorable.

     State Taxes.  Some states are  considering  imposing  new taxes,  including
sales taxes, on cable service. We cannot predict at this time whether such taxes
will be enacted or what impact they might have on our business.

     Other Regulatory  Issues.  There are a number of other  regulatory  matters
under review by Congress,  the FCC, and other federal agencies that could affect
our cable business. We briefly highlight those issues below:

      o     Cable/Broadcast  Cross-Ownership:  The  FCC  eliminated  regulations
            precluding the cross- ownership of a national  broadcasting  network
            and a cable system and,  pursuant to a federal court order,  the FCC
            recently  repealed its regulations  prohibiting the common ownership
            of  other  broadcasting  interests  and  cable  systems  in the same
            geographical areas.

      o     Tier Buy Through: The Communications Act requires cable operators to
            allow  subscribers  to  purchase  premium or  pay-per-view  services
            without the necessity of subscribing  to any tier of service,  other
            than the  basic  service  tier.  The  applicability  of this rule in
            certain situations remains unclear, and adverse decisions by the FCC
            on this  issue  could  affect  our  pricing  and  packaging  of such
            services.

      o     Leased  Access/PEG:   The  Communications  Act  permits  franchising
            authorities  to require  cable  operators to set aside  channels for
            public,   educational  and  governmental  access  programming,   and
            requires  a  cable  system  with 36 or more  activated  channels  to
            designate  a  significant   portion  of  its  channel  capacity  for
            commercial  leased  access by third  parties to provide  programming
            that may  compete  with  services  offered  by the  cable  operator.
            Neither  Congress  nor  the  FCC is  considering  changes  to  these
            requirements, but it is always possible that revisions could be made
            that would  place  further  burdens on the  channel  capacity of our
            cable systems.

      o     Obscenity:  The  Communications  Act prohibits the  transmission  of
            obscene programming over cable systems. Some members of Congress and
            the FCC  and  some  consumers  have  expressed  concerns  about  the
            distribution of certain adult programming over cable systems.

      o     Set-Top Box  Regulation:  Current FCC rules bar cable operators from
            leasing  subscribers  integrated  digital  set-top  boxes  effective
            January 1, 2005. We have urged elimination of the ban on the grounds
            that it will limit consumer choice, increase the cost of set-top box
            equipment,  and slow the deployment of digital cable  services,  but
            there is no assurance that the FCC will accept our position.

      o     MDU Access:  The FCC has adopted rules to promote  competitive entry
            into the MDU market.  These rules are intended to make it easier for
            new multichannel video service providers to compete with established
            cable operators. Although the FCC has declined to prohibit exclusive
            MDU service  agreements held by incumbent cable operators  including
            us, that decision could be appealed and possibly changed.

      o     Pole  Attachments:  The  Communications  Act requires that utilities
            provide  cable  systems with  nondiscriminatory  access to any pole,
            conduit or right-of-way  controlled by the utility,  and the FCC has
            adopted  rules,  upheld  by the  courts,  that  regulate  the  rates
            utilities  may charge for such  access.  The  utilities  continue to
            litigate  various aspects of the FCC's pole attachment  rulemakings,
            and recent court decisions  leave open the possibility  that the FCC
            could alter the pole  attachment rate levels paid by cable


                                     - 14 -

<PAGE>


            operators  that provide  high-speed  Internet  and cable  television
            offerings  over  those  attachments,  although  the FCC has given no
            indication   that  it  will  do  so.  Adverse   decisions  in  these
            proceedings could potentially increase our pole attachment costs.

      o     Privacy  Regulation:  The Communications Act generally restricts the
            nonconsensual  collection  and disclosure of  subscribers'  personal
            information  by  cable  operators.  A strict  interpretation  of the
            Communications  Act could  severely  limit the  ability  of  service
            providers to collect and use  personal  information  for  commercial
            purposes.  In addition,  the Federal  Trade  Commission  has adopted
            rules that will place sharp limits on the telemarketing practices of
            cable operators,  and the FCC is considering  adopting similar rules
            as well.

      o     Copyright  Regulation.  In exchange for filing  certain  reports and
            contributing  a  percentage  of  their  revenue  to a  U.S.  federal
            copyright   royalty  pool,   cable   operators  can  obtain  blanket
            permission to retransmit  copyrighted material on broadcast signals.
            The U.S.  Copyright Office has recommended that Congress revise this
            compulsory licensing scheme, although Congress has thus far declined
            to do so. The  elimination or substantial  modification of the cable
            compulsory  license  could  adversely  affect our  ability to obtain
            certain  programming  and  substantially  increase  our  programming
            costs. In addition,  we pay standard industry  licensing fees to use
            music in the  programs we provide to  subscribers,  including  local
            advertising,  local origination programming and pay-per-view events.
            These licensing fees have been the source of litigation  between the
            cable industry and music  performance  rights  organizations  in the
            past,  and we cannot  predict  with  certainty  whether  license fee
            disputes may arise in the future.

      o     Other Areas:  The FCC actively  regulates other aspects of our cable
            business,  including,  among  other  things:  (1)  the  blackout  of
            syndicated,  network,  and sports programming;  (2) customer service
            standards; (3) advertising in children's programming;  (4) political
            advertising;   (5)   origination   cablecasting;   (6)   sponsorship
            identification;  (7) closed  captioning  of video  programming;  (8)
            equal  employment   opportunity;   (9)  lottery  programming;   (10)
            emergency alert systems;  and (11) technical  standards  relating to
            operation  of the  cable  network.  The FCC is not  considering  any
            significant revisions to these rules at this time, but we are unable
            to predict how these  regulations might be changed in the future and
            how any such changes might affect our business.

     In all these  areas and a  variety  of  others,  we face the  potential  of
increased regulation.  Given the intensely competitive nature of every aspect of
our business, we believe that increased regulation is not warranted.  We can not
provide  any  assurance,  however,  that  regulation  of our  business  will not
increase.
                                    EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2002, we had approximately  82,000  employees.  Of these
employees, approximately 60,000 were associated with cable, approximately 15,000
were associated with commerce and  approximately  7,000 were associated with our
other divisions.  Approximately 4,000 of our employees are covered by collective
bargaining  agreements  or have  organized  but are not  covered  by  collective
bargaining agreements.  We believe that our relationships with our employees are
good.

ITEM 2 PROPERTIES

     Cable

     A central receiving  apparatus,  distribution cables,  servers,  analog and
digital  converters,  cable  modems,  customer  service  call  centers and local
business offices are the principal  physical assets of a cable system. We own or
lease the receiving and  distribution  equipment of each system and own or lease
parcels of real property for the receiving sites,  customer service call centers
and local business offices.

     Commerce

     Television  studios,  customer  service  call  centers,  business  offices,
product warehouses and distribution centers are the principal physical assets of
our commerce operations.  These assets include QVC's studios and offices, Studio
Park, located in West Chester,  Pennsylvania,  and office, customer service call
centers and warehouses in the US, UK,  Germany and Japan.  QVC owns the majority
of these  assets.  In order to keep pace  with  technological  advances,  QVC is
maintaining,  periodically  upgrading and rebuilding the physical


                                     - 15 -

<PAGE>

components of our commerce operations.

     Content

     Two large multi-purpose arenas, television studios and business offices are
the principal physical assets of our content  operations.  We own the arenas and
own or  lease  the  television  studios  and  business  offices  of our  content
operations.

     We  believe  that  substantially  all of our  physical  assets  are in good
operating condition.

ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Litigation  has been filed  against us as a result of our  alleged  conduct
with respect to our  investment in and  distribution  relationship  with At Home
Corporation.  At Home was a provider of high-speed  Internet  access and content
services which filed for bankruptcy  protection in September 2001. Filed actions
are: (i) class action  lawsuits  against us, Brian L. Roberts (our President and
Chief  Executive  Officer  and  a  director),   AT&T  (the  former   controlling
shareholder of At Home and also a former distributor of the At Home service) and
other  corporate and  individual  defendants in the Superior  Court of San Mateo
County,  California,  alleging  breaches of fiduciary duty on the part of us and
the other  defendants in connection  with  transactions  agreed to in March 2000
among At Home, us, AT&T and Cox Communications, Inc. (Cox is also an investor in
At Home and a former  distributor  of the At Home  service);  (ii) class  action
lawsuits  against  Comcast Cable  Communications,  Inc.,  AT&T and others in the
United States  District  Court for the Southern  District of New York,  alleging
securities law violations  and common law fraud in connection  with  disclosures
made by At Home in 2001;  and  (iii) a  lawsuit  brought  in the  United  States
District Court for the District of Delaware in the name of At Home by certain At
Home bondholders against us, Brian L. Roberts, Cox and others, alleging breaches
of fiduciary duty relating to the March 2000  transactions  and seeking recovery
of alleged  short- swing  profits of at least $600  million  pursuant to Section
16(b)  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934  purported  to have  arisen  in
connection with certain transactions relating to At Home stock effected pursuant
to the March 2000 agreements.  The actions in San Mateo County,  California have
been stayed by the United States  Bankruptcy Court for the Northern  District of
California,  the court in which At Home filed for  bankruptcy,  as violating the
automatic  bankruptcy  stay. In the Southern  District of New York actions,  the
court  ordered  the  actions  consolidated  into a  single  action.  An  amended
consolidated  class action  complaint was filed on November 8, 2002.  All of the
defendants served motions to dismiss on February 11, 2003.

     Under the terms of the Broadband  acquisition,  we are contractually liable
for 50% of any liabilities of AT&T relating to At Home,  including any resulting
from any pending or threatened litigation. AT&T will be liable for the other 50%
of these  liabilities.  In addition to the actions against AT&T described above,
where we are also a defendant,  there are two additional  actions  brought by At
Home's bondholders' liquidating trust against AT&T, not naming us: (i) a lawsuit
filed against AT&T and certain of its senior officers in Santa Clara, California
state court alleging various breaches of fiduciary duties,  misappropriation  of
trade secrets and other causes of action in connection with the  transactions in
March 2000 described above, and prior and subsequent alleged conduct on the part
of the  defendants,  and (ii) an action filed against AT&T in the District Court
for the Northern District of California, alleging that AT&T infringes an At Home
patent by using its broadband  distribution  and  high-speed  Internet  backbone
networks  and  equipment.  AT&T moved to dismiss the Santa  Clara  action on the
grounds that  California is an inconvenient  forum,  but the court denied AT&T's
motion.  AT&T also moved to transfer the Northern  District of California action
to the Southern  District of New York as being a more convenient  venue.  AT&T's
motion is pending.

     We deny any  wrongdoing in connection  with the claims which have been made
directly against us, our subsidiaries and Brian L. Roberts, and intend to defend
all of these claims vigorously.  In management's  opinion, the final disposition
of these  claims  is not  expected  to have a  material  adverse  effect  on our
consolidated   financial  position,  but  could  possibly  be  material  to  our
consolidated results of operations of any one period.  Further, no assurance can
be given that any adverse  outcome  would not be  material  to our  consolidated
financial position.

     Management  is  continuing  to evaluate  this  litigation  and is unable to
currently  determine  what  impact,  if any,  that our 50%  share of the At Home
potential  liabilities  would have on our  consolidated  financial  position  or
results of operations.  No assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would
not be material.

     Some of the entities  formerly  attributed  to Broadband  which are now our
subsidiaries  are parties to an  affiliation  term sheet with Starz Encore Group
LLC, an affiliate of Liberty Media Corporation,  which extends to 2022. The term
sheet requires  annual fixed price  payments,  subject to adjustment for various
factors,  including inflation. The term sheet also requires us to pay two-thirds
of Starz Encore's  programming  costs above levels designated in the term sheet.
Excess  programming  costs  that may be


                                     - 16 -

<PAGE>

payable  by us in  future  years  are not  presently  estimable,  and  could  be
significant.

     By letter dated May 29, 2001,  Broadband disputed the enforceability of the
excess  programming pass- through  provisions of the Starz Encore term sheet and
questioned the validity of the term sheet as a whole.  Broadband also has raised
certain issues  concerning  the  uncertainty of the provisions of the term sheet
and the contractual  interpretation and application of certain of its provisions
to, among other things,  the acquisition  and  disposition of cable systems.  In
July 2001,  Starz Encore filed a lawsuit in Colorado state court seeking payment
of the 2001 excess  programming costs and a declaration that the term sheet is a
binding and enforceable  contract.  In October 2001,  Broadband and Starz Encore
agreed to delay any further  proceedings in the litigation until August 31, 2002
to allow the parties time to continue  negotiations  toward a potential business
resolution of this dispute. As part of this standstill agreement,  Broadband and
Starz Encore settled Starz Encore's claim for the 2001 excess programming costs,
and Broadband agreed to continue to make the standard monthly payments due under
the  term  sheet,  with a full  reservation  of  rights  with  respect  to these
payments. In connection with the standstill agreement,  the court granted a stay
on  October  30,  2001.  The terms of the stay  order  allowed  either  party to
petition the court to lift the stay after April 30, 2002 and to proceed with the
litigation. Broadband and Starz Encore agreed to extend the standstill agreement
to and including  January 31, 2003, with a requirement  that the parties attempt
to mediate the dispute.  A mediation session held in January 2003 did not result
in any resolution of the matter.

     On November  18,  2002,  we filed suit  against  Starz Encore in the United
States  District  Court for the  Eastern  District  of  Pennsylvania.  We seek a
declaratory  judgment  that,  pursuant  to our  rights  under a March  17,  1999
contract  with a  predecessor  of  Starz  Encore,  upon  the  completion  of the
Broadband  acquisition  that  contract  now provides the terms under which Starz
Encore programming is acquired and transmitted by our cable systems.  On January
8, 2003,  Starz Encore filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit on the grounds that
claims asserted by us raised issues of state law that the United States District
Court should decline to decide.  We have responded  contesting these assertions.
The motion has been submitted to the Court for decision.

     On January 31, 2003, Starz Encore filed an amended complaint in its lawsuit
against  Broadband in Colorado  state court.  The amended  complaint adds us and
Comcast  Holdings as defendants and adds new claims against us, Comcast Holdings
and  Broadband  asserting  alleged  breaches  of,  and  interference  with,  the
standstill agreement relating to the lawsuit filed by us and Comcast Holdings in
federal  District Court in  Pennsylvania  and to the  defendants'  position that
since the  completion of the Broadband  acquisition  the March 17, 1999 contract
provides  the terms  under  which  Starz  Encore  programming  is  acquired  and
transmitted by our cable systems.

     On March 3, 2003,  Starz  Encore  filed a motion for leave to file a second
amended complaint that would add allegations that Broadband has breached certain
joint-marketing  obligations  under  the  term  sheet  and  that we and  Comcast
Holdings have breached certain  joint-marketing  obligations under the March 17,
1999 contract and other agreements. We, Comcast Holdings and Broadband intend to
oppose Starz Encore's  motion for leave to file a second amended  complaint and,
in light of Starz  Encore's  pending  motion for leave to amend,  have sought an
extension of time from the Court to respond to Starz Encore's amended complaint.

     An entity formerly attributed to Broadband, which is now our subsidiary, is
party to a master  agreement that may not expire until December 31, 2012,  under
which it purchases  certain billing  services from CSG Systems,  Inc. The master
agreement  requires monthly payments,  subject to adjustment for inflation.  The
master  agreement also contains a most favored nation  provision that may affect
the amounts paid thereunder.

     On May 10,  2002,  Broadband  filed a demand for  arbitration  against  CSG
before the American Arbitration  Association asserting,  among other things, the
right to  terminate  the master  agreement  and seeking  damages  under the most
favored nation provision or otherwise. On May 31, 2002, CSG answered Broadband's
arbitration demand and asserted various counterclaims,  including for (i) breach
of the master agreement;  (ii) a declaration that we are now bound by the master
agreement to use CSG as our exclusive  provider for certain billing and customer
care  services;   (iii)  tortious  interference  with  prospective   contractual
relations;  and (iv) civil conspiracy. A hearing in the arbitration is scheduled
to commence on May 5, 2003.

     On June 21, 2002, CSG filed a lawsuit against  Comcast  Holdings in federal
court in Denver,  Colorado  asserting claims related to the master agreement and
the pending arbitration. On November 4, 2002, CSG withdrew its complaint against
Comcast Holdings without prejudice. On November 15, 2002, we initiated a lawsuit
against CSG in federal court in Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania asserting that cable
systems  owned by  Comcast  Holdings  are not  required  to use CSG as a billing
service or customer care provider pursuant to the master agreement, and that the
former  Broadband  cable  systems  we now own may be added to a billing  service
agreement  between us and CSG.  CSG moved to dismiss


                                     - 17 -

<PAGE>

or stay the lawsuit on the ground that the issues raised by the complaint  could
be wholly or substantially  determined by the  above-mentioned  arbitration.  By
Order dated  February  10,  2003,  the Court  stayed the lawsuit  until  further
notice.

     On January 8, 2003,  Liberty  Digital,  Inc.  filed a complaint in Colorado
state court against us and Comcast Cable Holdings,  LLC (formerly AT&T Broadband
LLC and Tele-Communications,  Inc.), our wholly owned subsidiary.  The complaint
alleges that Comcast Cable  Holdings  breached a 1997  "contribution  agreement"
between  Liberty  Digital  and Comcast  Cable  Holdings  and that we  tortiously
interfered  with that  agreement.  The  complaint  alleges  that this  purported
agreement  obligates  Comcast  Cable  Holdings  to pay fees to  Liberty  Digital
totaling $18 million  (increasing  at CPI) per year through 2017. We and Comcast
Cable  Holdings  filed our answer to the complaint on March 5, 2003, in which we
denied  the  essential   allegations  of  the  complaint  and  asserted  various
affirmative defenses.

     In management's opinion, the final disposition of the Starz Encore, CSG and
Liberty Digital contractual  disputes is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However,
no assurance can be given that any adverse  outcome would not be material to our
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

     We are subject to other legal  proceedings  and claims  which  arise in the
ordinary course of our business. In the opinion of our management, the amount of
ultimate  liability  with respect to such actions is not expected to  materially
affect our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.



                                     - 18 -

<PAGE>

ITEM 4A      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Except  as  explained  below  for our  Chairman  of the Board and our Chief
Executive Officer, the current term of office of each of our officers expires at
the first meeting of our Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of
Shareholders,  presently scheduled to be held in May 2003, or as soon thereafter
as each of their  successors is elected and qualified.  The following table sets
forth certain  information  concerning our executive  officers,  including their
ages, positions and tenure as of December 31, 2002:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                Officer
Name                              Age            Since                          Position with Comcast
----------------------------   ----------     ------------     --------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>            <C>         <C>
Ralph J. Roberts                   82             1969         Chairman of the Executive and Finance Committee of
                                                               the Board of Directors; Director
C. Michael Armstrong               64             2002         Chairman of the Board of Directors; Director
Brian L. Roberts                   43             1986         President and Chief Executive Officer; Director
Julian A. Brodsky                  69             1969         Vice Chairman; Director
John R. Alchin                     54             1990         Co-Chief Financial Officer; Executive Vice President
                                                                   and Treasurer
Stephen B. Burke                   44             1998         Executive Vice President
David L. Cohen                     47             2002         Executive Vice President
Lawrence S. Smith                  55             1988         Co-Chief Financial Officer; Executive Vice President
Arthur R. Block                    48             1993         Senior Vice President; General Counsel; Secretary
Lawrence J. Salva                  46             2000         Senior Vice President and Controller
</TABLE>
                              ____________________

     Ralph J.  Roberts  has  served as a  director  and as our  Chairman  of the
Executive and Finance  Committee of the Board of Directors  since November 2002.
Prior to November  2002,  Mr.  Roberts  served as a director and Chairman of the
Board of  Directors  of Comcast  Holdings  for more than five  years.  He is the
father of Mr. Brian L. Roberts.

     C.  Michael  Armstrong  has served as a director and as our Chairman of the
Board of Directors since November 2002. Mr. Armstrong has notified us that as of
May 7, 2003, the date of our 2003 annual shareholders  meeting, he will exercise
his election to become Non-Executive  Chairman of the Board of Directors.  Prior
to November 2002, Mr. Armstrong  served as Chairman and Chief Executive  Officer
of AT&T since 1997. Mr.  Armstrong was formerly the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Hughes  Electronics,  a  publicly  traded  tracking  stock of General
Motors Corporation. Mr. Armstrong is also a director of Citigroup Inc.

     Brian L.  Roberts has served as a director and as our  President  and Chief
Executive Officer since November 2002. Upon Mr.  Armstrong's  election to become
Non-Executive  Chairman of the Board of Directors,  Mr.  Roberts will become our
Chairman of the Board of Directors.  Prior to November  2002, Mr. Roberts served
as a director and President of Comcast  Holdings for more than five years. As of
December 31, 2002, Mr. Roberts has sole voting power over  approximately 33 1/3%
of the combined  voting power of our two classes of voting common stock. He is a
son of Mr. Ralph J. Roberts.  Mr. Roberts is also a director of Comcast Holdings
and The Bank of New York Company, Inc.

     Julian A. Brodsky has served as a director and as our Vice  Chairman  since
November 2002. Prior to November 2002, he served as a director and Vice Chairman
of Comcast  Holdings for more than five years.  Mr.  Brodsky is also Chairman of
Comcast  Interactive  Capital,  LP, a venture fund that is  consolidated  in our
financial statements. He is also a director of RBB Fund, Inc. and NDS Group plc.

     John R. Alchin has served as our Co-Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice
President and Treasurer since November 2002.  Prior to November 2002, Mr. Alchin
served as an Executive  Vice  President and Treasurer of Comcast  Holdings since
January  2000.  Prior to  January  2000,  Mr.  Alchin  served  as a Senior  Vice
President and Treasurer of Comcast Holdings for more than five years. Mr. Alchin
is also a director of BNY Capital Markets, Inc.

     Stephen B. Burke has served as our Executive  Vice  President and President
of Comcast Cable and Comcast Cable Communications  Holdings since November 2002.
Prior to November  2002,  Mr.  Burke served as an  Executive  Vice  President of
Comcast  Holdings and President of Comcast  Cable since January 2000.  Mr. Burke
joined  Comcast  Holdings in June 1998 as Senior Vice President and President of
Comcast Cable. Prior to joining Comcast Holdings, Mr. Burke served with The Walt
Disney Company as President of ABC Broadcasting  from January 1996 to June 1998.
Mr. Burke is also a director of Bank One Corporation.

     David L. Cohen has served as our Executive  Vice  President  since November
2002.  Mr.  Cohen  joined

                                     - 19 -

<PAGE>


Comcast  Holdings in July 2002 as an  Executive  Vice  President.  Prior to that
time,  he was partner in, and Chairman of, the law firm of Ballard Spahr Andrews
&  Ingersoll,  LLP for more than five  years.  Mr.  Cohen is also a director  of
Comcast Holdings.

     Lawrence  S.  Smith  has  served  as our  Co-Chief  Financial  Officer  and
Executive Vice President since November 2002.  Prior to November 2002, Mr. Smith
served as an Executive  Vice  President  of Comcast  Holdings for more than five
years.  For more than five years  prior to January  2000,  Mr.  Smith  served as
Principal  Accounting Officer of Comcast Holdings.  Mr. Smith is also a director
of Comcast Holdings.

     Arthur R. Block has served as our Senior Vice  President,  General  Counsel
and Secretary  since November 2002.  Prior to November 2002, Mr. Block served as
General Counsel of Comcast Holdings since June 2000 and as Senior Vice President
of Comcast  Holdings since January 2000. Prior to January 2000, Mr. Block served
as Vice President and Senior Deputy General Counsel of Comcast Holdings for more
than five years. Mr. Block is also a director of Comcast Holdings.

     Lawrence J. Salva has served as our Senior Vice  President  and  Controller
since November 2002. Mr. Salva joined Comcast Holdings in January 2000 as Senior
Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to that time, Mr. Salva was a
national  accounting  consulting  partner  in  the  public  accounting  firm  of
PricewaterhouseCoopers for more than five years.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
       MATTERS

     Our Class A common  stock is included on Nasdaq  under the symbol CMCSA and
our Class A Special  common stock is included on Nasdaq under the symbol  CMCSK.
There is no established  public trading market for our Class B common stock. Our
Class B common stock can be converted,  on a share for share basis, into Class A
or Class A Special  common  stock.  The  following  table  sets  forth,  for the
indicated  periods,  the closing  price range of our Class A and Class A Special
common stock as furnished by Nasdaq.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                              Class A
                                                             Class A                          Special
                                                   -------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       High            Low              High            Low
                                                   -------------   -----------      -------------   ------------
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>                <C>           <C>
2001
First Quarter......................................     $45.25        $38.06             $45.88        $38.69
Second Quarter.....................................      44.75         38.88              45.50         39.50
Third Quarter......................................      42.70         32.79              43.30         32.51
Fourth Quarter.....................................      40.06         34.95              40.18         35.19

2002
First Quarter......................................     $37.13        $30.10             $37.33        $29.65
Second Quarter.....................................      33.67         23.35              32.15         22.33
Third Quarter......................................      25.87         17.57              25.12         16.80
Fourth Quarter.....................................      26.78         17.40              26.24         16.93
</TABLE>
                              ____________________

     Our Board of  Directors  eliminated  the  quarterly  cash  dividend  on all
classes of our common stock in March 1999.  We do not intend to pay dividends on
our Class A, Class A Special or Class B common stock for the foreseeable future.

     Holders of our Class A common  stock in the  aggregate  hold 66 2/3% of the
aggregate voting power of our capital stock. The number of votes that each share
of our  Class A common  stock  will have at any  given  time will  depend on the
number  of  shares  of Class A  common  stock  and  Class B  common  stock  then
outstanding.  If you hold shares of our Class A Special common stock, you cannot
vote in the  election of directors  or  otherwise,  except where class voting is
required by law. In that case,  if you hold Class A Special  common  stock,  you
will have the same  number  of votes  per share as each  share of Class A common
stock. Our Class B common stock has a 33 1/3%  nondilutable  voting interest and
each share of Class B common stock has 15 votes per share.  Mr. Brian L. Roberts
beneficially owns all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. Generally,
including as to the election of  directors,  holders of Class A common stock and
Class B common  stock vote as one class except where class voting is required by
law.

     As of December 31, 2002, there were 1,410,983 record holders of our Class A
common stock, 4,981 record holders of our Class A Special common stock and three
record holders of our Class B common stock.



                                     - 20 -


<PAGE>

ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                    2002(1)      2001(1)     2000(1)      1999        1998
                                                   -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                           (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                                   <C>            <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
Revenues...........................................   $12,460        $9,836     $8,357     $6,632      $5,513
Operating income (loss)............................     1,659          (746)      (161)       664         557
Income (loss) from continuing operations before
     cumulative effect of accounting change........      (276)          224      2,021        730       1,003
Discontinued operations............................         2                                 336         (31)
Cumulative effect of accounting change.............                     385
Net income (loss)..................................     (274)           609      2,021      1,066         972
Basic earnings (loss) for common stockholders
  per common share (2)
     Income (loss) from continuing operations
        before cumulative effect of accounting
        change.....................................     ($.25)         $.24      $2.24       $.93       $1.33
     Discontinued operations.......................                                           .45        (.04)
     Cumulative effect of accounting change........                     .40
                                                   ---------- ------------- ---------- ----------  ----------
     Net income (loss).............................     ($.25)         $.64      $2.24      $1.38       $1.29
                                                   ========== ============= ========== ==========  ==========
Diluted earnings (loss) for common
  stockholders per common share (2)
     Income (loss) from continuing operations
        before cumulative effect of accounting
        change.....................................     ($.25)         $.23      $2.13       $.89       $1.24
     Discontinued operations ......................                                           .41        (.03)
     Cumulative effect of accounting change .......                     .40
                                                   ---------- ------------- ---------- ----------  ----------
     Net income (loss).............................     ($.25)         $.63      $2.13      $1.30       $1.21
                                                   ========== ============= ========== ==========  ==========
Cash dividends declared per common share (2).......                                                    $.0467

Balance Sheet Data (at year end) (3):
Total assets.......................................  $113,105       $38,261    $35,874    $28,823     $14,711
Working capital....................................    (8,307)        1,455      1,695      4,786       2,505
Long-term debt.....................................    27,957        11,742     10,517      8,707       5,464
Stockholders' equity...............................    38,329        14,473     14,086     10,341       3,815

Supplementary Financial Data:
Operating income before depreciation and
     amortization (4)..............................    $3,691        $2,670     $2,458     $1,880      $1,496
Net cash provided by (used in) (5)
     Operating activities..........................     2,995         1,577      1,189      1,249       1,068
     Financing activities..........................    (1,292)        1,495       (241)     1,341         809
     Investing activities..........................    (1,272)       (3,374)    (1,219)    (2,539)     (1,415)

---------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(1)  You should see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
     and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this Annual Report for a discussion
     of events which affect the  comparability  of the information  reflected in
     this financial data.
(2)  We have  adjusted  these for our  two-for-one  stock split in the form of a
     100% stock dividend in May 1999.
(3)  On November 18, 2002,  we  completed  the  acquisition  of  Broadband.  Our
     estimates associated with the accounting for the Broadband acquisition have
     and will continue to change as final reports from valuation specialists are
     obtained and additional  information  becomes  available  regarding  assets
     acquired and  liabilities  assumed.  Since the publication of our 2002 year
     end earnings  release,  the ongoing  valuation and  allocation  process has
     resulted  in  inconsequential  changes  to  the  balance  sheet,  primarily
     affecting  non-amortizable  intangible  assets  and  related  deferred  tax
     liabilities.  Changes in the amounts assigned to other acquisition  related
     assets and liabilities  may affect  operating  results,  or gains or losses
     upon the disposition of assets acquired, in future periods.
(4)  Operating income before  depreciation and amortization is commonly referred
     to in our  businesses  as  "EBITDA."  EBITDA  is a measure  of a  company's
     ability to generate cash to service its obligations, including debt service
     obligations, and to finance capital and other expenditures.  In part due to
     the  capital   intensive   nature  of  our  businesses  and  the  resulting
     significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense, EBITDA
     is  frequently  used as one of the bases for  comparing  businesses  in our
     industries,  although  our  measure  of  EBITDA  may not be  comparable  to
     similarly titled measures of other  companies.  EBITDA is the primary basis
     used  by  our  management  to  measure  the  operating  performance  of our
     businesses.  EBITDA  does not purport to  represent  net income or net cash
     provided  by  operating  activities,  as  those  terms  are  defined  under
     generally accepted accounting  principles,  and should not be considered as
     an alternative to those measurements as an indicator of our performance.
(5)  This  represents  net cash  provided  by (used  in)  operating  activities,
     financing   activities  and  investing   activities  as  presented  in  our
     consolidated  statement  of cash flows  which is included in Item 8 of this
     Annual Report.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                     - 21 -

<PAGE>

ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
       RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

     We  have  grown  significantly  in  recent  years  through  both  strategic
acquisitions  and growth in our existing  businesses.  On November 18, 2002,  we
completed the  acquisition of AT&T Corp.'s  broadband  business (the  "Broadband
acquisition"). The Broadband acquisition substantially increased the size of our
cable  operations  and  caused  significant  changes in our  capital  structure,
including a substantially higher amount of debt. As a result, direct comparisons
of our results of  operations  and  financial  condition  for  periods  prior to
November 18, 2002 to subsequent periods are not meaningful.

     In  February  2003,  we  announced  that we had entered  into a  definitive
agreement with Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC and Bresnan  Communications,  LLC
(together  "Bresnan")  pursuant to which we agreed to transfer to Bresnan  cable
systems serving approximately 317,000 subscribers in Montana,  Wyoming, Colorado
and Utah that we had acquired in connection with the Broadband  acquisition.  We
reflect these systems as assets held for sale in our consolidated  balance sheet
and as  discontinued  operations in our  consolidated  statement of  operations.
Accordingly,  we have excluded  these  systems'  results in our  discussions  of
liquidity  and  capital  resources,  statement  of cash  flows  and  results  of
operations for all periods presented.

     We have  historically  met our cash needs for  operations  through our cash
flows from operating activities. We have generally financed our acquisitions and
capital  expenditures  through  issuances  of our common  stock,  borrowings  of
long-term debt,  sales of investments  and from existing cash, cash  equivalents
and short-term investments.

General Developments of Business

     Refer to "General Developments of Our Business" in Part I and Note 5 to our
financial statements included in Item 8 for a discussion of our acquisitions and
other significant events.

Significant and Subjective Estimates

     The  following  discussion  and  analysis of our  financial  condition  and
results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which
have been prepared in accordance with accounting  principles  generally accepted
in the United States. The preparation of these financial  statements requires us
to make  estimates  that  affect the  reported  amounts of assets,  liabilities,
revenues  and  expenses,   and  related  disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and
liabilities. We base our judgments on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances,  the results
of which form the basis for making estimates about the carrying values of assets
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

     Refer  to  Note 2 to our  financial  statements  included  in  Item 8 for a
discussion of our accounting policies with respect to these and other items.

Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates

     We  believe  our  judgments  and  related  estimates  associated  with  the
impairment  testing  and  valuation  of our  cable  franchise  rights,  and  the
valuation of acquisition related assets, liabilities and legal contingencies, to
be  critical  in the  preparation  of  our  consolidated  financial  statements.
Management  has  discussed  the  development  and  selection  of these  critical
accounting  judgments  and  estimates  with the Audit  Committee of our Board of
Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures  relating to them
presented below.

     Impairment Testing and Valuation of Cable Franchise Rights

     Our  cable  systems  are  constructed  and  operated  under   non-exclusive
franchises  granted  by state  or local  governmental  authorities  for  varying
lengths  of time.  As of  December  31,  2002,  we  served  approximately  4,600
franchise areas in the United States. We have concluded that our cable franchise
rights have an  indefinite  useful  life since  there are no legal,  regulatory,
contractual,  competitive,  economic or other  factors  limiting the period over
which these rights will  contribute  to our cash flows.  Accordingly,  our cable
franchise rights are not subject to amortization  but are assessed  periodically
for impairment in accordance  with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."

     We  have  acquired  these  franchise  rights  either  directly  from  local
franchise  authorities or through many separate cable system  acquisitions  that
include  multiple  franchise  territories.  Upon  acquisition,  we integrate the
individual  franchise  territories into our national footprint.  While our Cable
Division  is  organized  nationally  into six  geographic  divisions,  which are
further  organized into  geographic  clusters of cable  systems,  we operate our
cable  operations  and their  associated  franchise  rights  as a single  asset,
essentially inseparable from one another.

                                     - 22 -

<PAGE>

We have concluded that the  preponderance  of indicators in Emerging Issues Task
Force   ("EITF")   02-7,   "Unit  of  Accounting   for  Testing   Impairment  of
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets," supports the testing of our cable franchise
rights for  impairment  at the cable  segment  level,  which is the same unit of
accounting used by us to test cable-related goodwill for impairment.

     We assess the recoverability of our cable franchise rights annually or more
frequently  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying amount may not be recoverable.  We estimate the fair value of our cable
franchise  rights  primarily  based on a multiple  of  operating  income  before
depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") generated by the underlying assets. The
EBITDA  multiple used in our  evaluation is determined  based on our analyses of
current market  transactions,  profitability  information,  including  estimated
future operating  results,  trends or other  determinants of fair value. We also
consider other valuation  methods such as discounted cash flow analyses.  If the
value of our cable franchise rights determined by these evaluations is less than
its carrying amount, an impairment charge would be recognized for the difference
between the estimated  fair value and the carrying  value of the assets.  Future
adverse  changes in market  conditions or poor operating  results of the related
business may indicate an inability to recover the carrying  value of the assets,
thereby possibly requiring a future impairment charge.

     As more fully described in Note 5 to our financial  statements  included in
Item 8 (see  Acquisition of Broadband),  the fair value of the shares issued for
Broadband was based on the date the non-equity,  or "other"  consideration being
paid was substantively  changed from the terms of the original merger agreement.
The fair value of the shares issued for Broadband  based on the new  measurement
date was approximately  one-half the fair value assigned to the shares as of the
date  of  the  original  merger  agreement.   Accordingly,  the  effect  of  the
modification was to reduce by approximately one-half (approximately $23 billion)
the value  assigned to the equity  consideration  issued in connection  with the
Broadband  acquisition.  As a  significant  portion  of the  purchase  price was
allocated  to  indefinite-lived  cable  franchise  rights and to  goodwill,  the
reduction in the fair value of the equity  consideration  reduces the likelihood
of a future impairment charge related to our cable franchise rights or goodwill.

     The carrying  amount of cable  franchise  rights  related to our historical
cable  systems is  significantly  less than their current  estimated  fair value
largely  because we acquired many of these rights  directly from local franchise
authorities rather than through separate cable system acquisitions.  Conversely,
the carrying amount of cable  franchise  rights for our more recent cable system
acquisitions has not been  significantly  reduced through  amortization (and has
not been reduced at all for acquisitions made subsequent to the adoption of SFAS
No.  142).  Nevertheless,  testing for  impairment  at the cable  segment  level
reduces  the  likelihood  of a future  impairment  charge  related  to our cable
franchise rights.

     Fair  Value  of  Acquisition   Related   Assets,   Liabilities   and  Legal
Contingencies

     We allocate  the purchase  price of acquired  companies to the tangible and
intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair
values. In determining fair value,  management is required to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the recorded amounts.  To assist in this process,  third
party  valuation  specialists  are engaged to value  certain of these assets and
liabilities.

     Estimates used in valuing  acquired assets and liabilities  include but are
not  limited  to:  expected  future cash  flows;  market  rate  assumptions  for
contractual  obligations;  actuarial  assumptions for benefit plans;  settlement
plans  for  litigation  and  contingencies;   and  appropriate  discount  rates.
Management's  estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions  believed to be
reasonable,   but  which  are  inherently  uncertain.  In  addition,   estimated
liabilities to exit activities of the acquired operations, including the exiting
of contractual  obligations  and the  termination  of employees,  are subject to
change as management  continues its  assessment of operations  and finalizes its
integration plans.

     The assets and assumed  liabilities  related to the  Broadband  acquisition
requiring  significant  judgment in estimating  fair value include  investments,
cable  franchise  rights,  franchise  related  customer  relationships,  assumed
contractual and other obligations,  and costs related to terminating  certain of
Broadband's  contractual obligations and employees. In addition, we are party to
certain  Broadband  legal  contingencies,  including  those described in Item 3,
Legal Proceedings.  If, based on information available, a potential loss arising
from these  lawsuits,  claims and actions  was deemed  probable  and  reasonably
estimable, we recorded the estimated liability in the purchase price allocation.
While  management  believes the recorded  liabilities  are adequate,  additional
information  related to these cases is still being  obtained.  In addition,  the
inherent limitations in the estimation process may cause future actual losses to
exceed expected losses.

     Our estimates associated with the accounting for the Broadband  acquisition
have and will continue to change as final reports from valuation specialists are
obtained and additional  information becomes available regarding

                                     - 23 -

<PAGE>

assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  Since the publication of our 2002 year
end earnings release,  the ongoing valuation and allocation process has resulted
in   inconsequential   changes  to  the  balance  sheet,   primarily   affecting
non-amortizable intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities.  Changes
in the amounts assigned to other acquisition  related assets and liabilities may
affect  operating  results,  or gains or losses upon the  disposition  of assets
acquired, in future periods.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     The  cable  and  the  electronic   retailing  industries  are  experiencing
increasing  competition and rapid technological  changes.  Our future results of
operations  will  be  affected  by  our  ability  to  react  to  changes  in the
competitive  environment  and by our ability to implement new  technologies.  We
believe that competition and technological changes will not significantly affect
our ability to obtain financing.

     In  order  to  preserve  the  treatment  of the  Broadband  acquisition  as
tax-free, our ability to redeem stock or issue equity securities will be limited
through  December  2004. As of December 31, 2002, we had the ability to issue at
least 250 million shares of our common stock without affecting the tax treatment
of the Broadband acquisition.

     We believe that we will be able to meet our current and long-term liquidity
and capital requirements,  including fixed charges,  through our cash flows from
operating  activities,  existing cash,  cash  equivalents and  investments,  and
through available borrowings under our existing credit facilities.

     Available sources of financing to fund these requirements include:

      o     our existing cash and cash  equivalents,  which totaled $781 million
            as of December 31, 2002,

      o     amounts available under our and our  subsidiaries'  lines of credit,
            which totaled $5.949 billion as of December 31, 2002,

      o     proceeds  of  approximately  $525  million  from  the  sale of cable
            systems   to   Bresnan   Broadband   Holdings,   LLC   and   Bresnan
            Communications,  LLC, a transaction  we expect will close by the end
            of the first quarter of 2003,

      o     proceeds of approximately $725 million from the sale of our interest
            in a cable  joint  venture  with  Charter  Communications,  Inc.,  a
            transaction we expect to close in April 2003, and

      o     through  the  sales  or  restructurings  of our  other  investments,
            including  $2.1 billion of cash due upon the  restructuring  of Time
            Warner Entertainment L.P. ("TWE").

     In addition,  as more fully described in Note 5 to our financial statements
included  in  Item  8  (see  TWE   Restructuring),   upon  closing  of  the  TWE
restructuring  agreement,  we will  receive  $1.5 billion in common stock of AOL
Time Warner and an approximate 21% equity interest in Time Warner Cable, Inc.

     Refer to the Contractual Obligations table on page 29 and to Note 13 to our
financial  statements included in Item 8 for a discussion of our commitments and
contingencies.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents

     We have  traditionally  maintained  significant  levels  of cash  and  cash
equivalents to meet our short-term liquidity requirements.  Our cash equivalents
are recorded at fair value.  Cash and cash  equivalents  as of December 31, 2002
were $781 million, substantially all of which is unrestricted.

     Investments

     A significant  portion of our investments are in publicly traded  companies
and are reflected at fair value, which fluctuates with market changes.

     We do not have any significant contractual funding commitments with respect
to any of our  investments.  Our ownership  interests in these  investments may,
however, be diluted if we do not fund our investees'  non-binding capital calls.
We  continually  evaluate our existing  investments,  as well as new  investment
opportunities.

     Refer  to  Note 6 to our  financial  statements  included  in  Item 8 for a
discussion of our investments.

     Capital Expenditures

     During  2003,  we expect to incur  approximately  $4.2  billion  of capital
expenditures  in  our  cable,   commerce  and  content   businesses,   including
approximately $4 billion for our cable operations.

     We  anticipate  capital  expenditures  for  years  subsequent  to 2003 will
continue  to be  significant.  As of  December  31,  2002,  we do not  have  any
significant contractual obligations for capital expenditures.

     Cable

     We expect our 2003 cable capital  expenditures  will include  approximately
$1.3 billion for the upgrading and  rebuilding of certain of our cable  systems,
approximately

                                     - 24 -

<PAGE>

$1.8 billion for the  deployment of cable  modems,  digital  converters  and new
service  offerings,   and  approximately  $0.9  billion  for  recurring  capital
projects.

     We expect to  substantially  complete  the upgrade and rebuild of the newly
acquired  systems  by the end of 2004 for a total  cost of $2.2  billion to $2.5
billion.  The amount of our capital  expenditures  for years  subsequent to 2003
will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control including:

      o     competition,

      o     changes in technology, and

      o     the timing and rate of deployment of new services.

     Commerce

     During  2003,  we expect to incur  approximately  $125  million  of capital
expenditures for QVC,  primarily to maintain QVC's  distribution  facilities and
information  systems.  Capital  expenditures in QVC's  international  operations
represent nearly 40% of QVC's total capital expenditures.

     On March 3, 2003, we announced that Liberty Media  Corporation  delivered a
notice to us,  pursuant to the  stockholders  agreement  between us and Liberty,
that triggers an exit rights process with respect to Liberty's  approximate  42%
interest in QVC. We and Liberty will attempt to negotiate  the fair market value
of QVC prior to March 31, 2003.  If we and Liberty  cannot  agree,  an appraisal
process will determine the value of QVC. We will then have the right to purchase
Liberty's  interest in QVC at the determined  value.  We may pay Liberty for the
QVC stock in cash, in a promissory note maturing not more than three years after
issuance,  in our equity  securities  or in a combination  of these,  subject to
Liberty's  right to request  payment in all equity  securities  and the parties'
obligation to use reasonable  efforts to consummate the purchase in the most tax
efficient  method  available  (provided  that  we  are  not  required  to  issue
securities  representing more than 4.9% of the outstanding equity or vote of our
common stock).  If we elect not to purchase  Liberty's  interest in QVC, Liberty
then will have a similar right to purchase our  approximate 57% interest in QVC.
If neither we nor Liberty  elect to purchase the interest of the other,  then we
and Liberty are required to use our best efforts to sell QVC;  either company is
permitted  to be a purchaser  in any such sale.  We and Liberty may agree not to
enter  into a  transaction,  or may  agree  to a  transaction  other  than  that
specified  in  the  stockholders  agreement.  Under  the  current  terms  of the
stockholders agreement between us and Liberty, we would no longer control QVC if
we elect not to purchase Liberty's interest in QVC.
     Affiliation Agreements

     Certain  of  our  content   subsidiaries  and  QVC  enter  into  multi-year
affiliation  agreements  with various cable and satellite  system  operators for
carriage of their respective  programming.  In connection with these affiliation
agreements, we generally pay a fee to the cable or satellite operator based upon
the number of subscribers.  During 2003, we expect to incur $150 million to $200
million related to these affiliation agreements, excluding amounts applicable to
our cable systems.

     Financing

     As of  December  31,  2002 and 2001,  our  debt,  including  capital  lease
obligations, was $34.910 billion and $12.202 billion,  respectively. The $22.708
billion  increase  from  December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002 results from the
effects  of the  Broadband  acquisition,  offset  by  the  effects  of net  debt
repayments. Included in our debt as of December 31, 2002 was short-term debt and
current portion of long-term debt of $6.953 billion.

     In January and March 2003,  we sold an  aggregate of $3.0 billion of public
debt  consisting of $600 million of 5.85% senior notes due 2010, $900 million of
6.50%  senior  notes due 2015,  $750  million of 5.50% senior notes due 2011 and
$750  million of 7.05%  senior  notes due 2033.  We used all of the net proceeds
from the offerings to repay a portion of our short-term debt.

     As a result of the Broadband  acquisition,  we assumed  notes  exchangeable
into the common stock of  Cablevision  NY Group Class A common stock,  Microsoft
Corporation  ("Microsoft")  common  stock,  Vodafone  ADRs,  and Comcast Class A
Special  common stock  (together,  the  "Exchangeable  Notes").  At maturity the
Exchangeable Notes are mandatorily redeemable at our option into (i) a number of
shares of common stock or ADRs equal to the underlying  shares  multiplied by an
exchange ratio (as defined), or (ii) its cash equivalent.  The maturity value of
the  Exchangeable  Notes varies based upon the fair market value of the security
to which  it is  indexed.  The  Exchangeable  Notes  are  collateralized  by our
investments in Cablevision,  Microsoft and Vodafone, respectively, and our Class
A Special common stock held in treasury.

     As of December 31, 2002,  our debt includes an aggregate of $5.459  billion
of  Exchangeable  Notes,  including  $1.555  billion and $3.904  billion  within
current  portion of  long-term  debt and  long-term  debt,  respectively.  As of
December 31, 2002, our investments include  Cablevision,  Microsoft and Vodafone
securities  with an aggregate  fair value of $4.420  billion,  including  $1.993
billion and $2.427 billion within short-term and

                                     - 25 -

<PAGE>

noncurrent investments, respectively. Upon closing of the Broadband acquisition,
we  classified  the Comcast  shares,  which are held by a subsidiary of ours, as
treasury  stock  within  stockholders'  equity.  As of December  31,  2002,  the
securities held by us collateralizing  the Exchangeable Notes were sufficient to
satisfy the debt obligations associated with the outstanding Exchangeable Notes.

     Excluding the effects of interest rate risk management  instruments,  31.8%
and 13.4% of our long- term debt, including short-term debt and current portion,
as of December  31, 2002 and 2001,  respectively,  was at  variable  rates.  The
increase  from  December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002 in the  percentage of our
variable  rate  debt  was  due  principally  to the  effects  of  the  Broadband
acquisition.

     We have,  and may from time to time in the  future,  depending  on  certain
factors  including  market  conditions,  make  optional  repayments  on our debt
obligations, which may include open market repurchases of our outstanding public
notes and debentures.

     Refer to Notes 8 and 10 to our financial  statements included in Item 8 for
a discussion of our financing activities.

     Interest Rate Risk Management

     We are exposed to the market risk of adverse  changes in interest rates. We
maintain a mix of fixed and variable rate debt and enter into various derivative
transactions pursuant to our policies to manage the volatility relating to these
exposures.  We  monitor  our  interest  rate  risk  exposures  using  techniques
including  market value and  sensitivity  analyses.  We do not hold or issue any
derivative  financial  instruments  for trading  purposes and are not a party to
leveraged instruments. We manage the credit risks associated with our derivative
financial   instruments   through  the   evaluation   and   monitoring   of  the
creditworthiness of the counterparties.  Although we may be exposed to losses in
the event of nonperformance by the counterparties, we do not expect such losses,
if any, to be significant.

     We  use  interest  rate  exchange  agreements  ("Swaps")  to  exchange,  at
specified intervals,  the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts
calculated by reference to an  agreed-upon  notional  principal  amount.  We use
interest rate lock  agreements  ("Rate Locks") to hedge the risk that cash flows
related to the interest  payments on an  anticipated  issuance or  assumption of
fixed rate debt may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations.  We use
interest rate cap agreements  ("Caps") to lock in a maximum interest rate should
variable rates rise,  but enable us to otherwise pay lower market rates.  We use
interest  rate  collar  agreements  ("Collars")  to limit  our  exposure  to and
benefits  from  interest  rate  fluctuations  on variable  rate debt to within a
certain range of rates.

     The table set forth below  summarizes the fair values and contract terms of
financial  instruments  subject to  interest  rate risk  maintained  by us as of
December 31, 2002 (dollars in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                Fair
                                                                                                              Value at
                                       2003    2004      2005     2006    2007    Thereafter     Total        12/31/02
<S>                                   <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>    <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>
Debt
Fixed Rate..........................  $2,162   $1,720    $2,637   $1,789 $1,131      $14,363     $23,802       $25,719
   Average Interest Rate............    7.1%     6.7%      7.2%     7.2%   8.2%         8.0%        7.7%

Variable Rate.......................  $4,791   $4,415    $1,817      $45    $39           $1     $11,108       $11,108
   Average Interest Rate............    2.4%     2.6%      2.8%     4.0%   3.0%         7.4%        2.6%

Interest Rate Instruments
Variable to Fixed Swaps.............    $608     $715      $488                                   $1,811           $64
   Average Pay Rate.................    7.3%     7.6%      7.6%                                     7.5%
   Average Receive Rate.............    1.4%     1.7%      2.2%                                     1.7%
Fixed to Variable Swaps.............                                                    $300        $300           $41
   Average Pay Rate.................                                                    7.8%        7.8%
   Average Receive Rate.............                                                    9.7%        9.7%
</TABLE>

                           ---------------------------

     The  notional  amounts of interest  rate  instruments,  as presented in the
table  above,  are used to measure  interest to be paid or  received  and do not
represent  the amount of  exposure  to credit  loss.  The  estimated  fair value
approximates  the  proceeds  to settle the  outstanding  contracts.  We estimate
interest  rates on  variable  debt  using the  average  implied  forward  London
Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") rates for the year of maturity based on the yield
curve in effect at December 31, 2002,  plus the  borrowing  margin in effect for
each credit facility at


                                     - 26 -


<PAGE>

December 31, 2002.  We estimate  average  receive rates on the Variable to Fixed
Swaps using the  average  implied  forward  LIBOR rates for the year of maturity
based on the yield curve in effect at  December  31,  2002.  While  Swaps,  Rate
Locks,  Caps and Collars  represent an integral  part of our interest  rate risk
management  program,  their incremental effect on interest expense for the years
ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was not significant.

     Equity Price Risk Management

     We have entered into cashless collar  agreements (the "Equity Collars") and
prepaid forward sales agreements  ("Prepaid Forward Sales") which we account for
at fair value.  The Equity Collars and Prepaid  Forward Sales limit our exposure
to and benefits  from price  fluctuations  in the common stock of certain of our
investments  accounted  for  as  trading  securities.  Refer  to  Note  6 to our
financial  statements included in Item 8 for a discussion of our Prepaid Forward
Sales.

     The change in the fair value of our  investments  accounted  for as trading
securities  was  substantially  offset by the  changes  in the fair value of the
Equity Collars,  the derivative  components of the ZONES, the Exchangeable Notes
and the Prepaid  Forward Sales.  See "Results of Operations - Investment  Income
(Expense)" below.

     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

     The change in accumulated other  comprehensive  income (loss) from December
31, 2001 to December 31, 2002 is principally  attributable to unrealized  losses
on our Rate  Locks  classified  as cash flow  hedges  entered  into in 2002,  to
declines in unrealized gains on our investments classified as available for sale
held  throughout the period,  and to realized losses on sales of investments and
investment  impairment  losses on  investments  classified as available for sale
during 2002. Refer to Notes 6 and 8 to our financial statements in Item 8.

     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations

     In January 2003,  the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  ("SEC") issued
final  rules  which  require  the  disclosure  of  material   off-balance  sheet
arrangements  and known  contractual  obligations  as of the most recent balance
sheet  date.  The new rules  are  effective  with our 2003  Annual  Report.  The
disclosures below are based on the requirements of the new rules.

     We do not have  any  off-balance  sheet  arrangements  that are  reasonably
likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of
operations,  liquidity,  capital  expenditures or capital resources,  as defined
under  the  new  rules.  Refer  to  Notes 8 and 13 to our  financial  statements
included in Item 8 of this Annual  Report for a description  of our  obligations
related to guarantees, operating leases and other commitments.

     We have  summarized  our known  contractual  obligations as of December 31,
2002, and the effect such  obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and
cash  flow in future  periods,  in a tabular  format  prescribed  by the new SEC
rules.  Refer to Note 8 to our  financial  statements  included  in Item 8 for a
description of our long-term debt. Refer to Note 13 to our financial  statements
included  in  Item 8 for a  description  of our  operating  lease  and  purchase
obligations.  Refer to Note 5 to our financial statements included in Item 8 for
a description of our acquisition related obligations.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Contractual Obligations                                                    Payments Due by Period
                                                              -------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                        More
                                                                            Years        Years        than 5
                                                   Total        Year 1      2 - 3        4 - 5         years
                                                 ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                         (dollars in millions)

<S>                                                 <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>
Debt obligations ...............................    $34,678       $6,936      $10,474       $2,923      $14,345
Capital lease obligations ......................        232           17          115           81           19
Operating lease obligations.....................      1,120          248          354          220          298
Purchase obligations (1)........................      1,373          230          392          258          493
Other long-term liabilities reflected
     on the balance sheet
     Acquisition related obligations (2)........      2,377          869          516          261          731
     Other long-term obligations (3)............        935          294          334           69          238
                                                 ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Total...........................................    $40,715       $8,594      $12,185       $3,812      $16,124
                                                 ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========
____________

<FN>
(1)  Purchase  obligations  consist of agreements to purchase goods and services
     that  are  enforceable  and  legally  binding  on us and that  specify  all
     significant  terms including  fixed or minimum  quantities to be purchased,
     price  provisions and timing of the transaction.  Our purchase  obligations
     consist of the employment  agreements that we, through  Comcast  Spectacor,
     have with both  players and coaches of our  professional  sports  teams and
     license  agreements  that our  programming  networks  have entered into for
     programs  and  sporting   events  which  will  be  available


                                     - 27 -
<PAGE>

     for telecast  subsequent to December 31, 2002.  Certain of these employment
     agreements,  which provide for payments that are  guaranteed  regardless of
     employee  injury or  termination,  are covered by  disability  insurance if
     certain conditions are met.
(2)  Acquisition  related  obligations  consist  primarily  of costs  related to
     terminating employees,  costs relating to exiting contractual  obligations,
     and other assumed contractual obligations of the acquired entity.
(3)  Other   long-term   obligations   consist   principally   of  our  deferred
     compensation  obligations,  pension,  post-retirement  and  post-employment
     benefit obligations, and program rights payable under license agreements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                           ---------------------------


Statement of Cash Flows

     Cash and cash  equivalents  increased  $431 million as of December 31, 2002
from December 31, 2001. The increase in cash and cash equivalents  resulted from
cash flows from  operating,  financing  and  investing  activities  as explained
below.

     Net cash  provided  by  operating  activities  from  continuing  operations
amounted to $2.995 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002, due principally
to our operating income before  depreciation  and amortization  (see "Results of
Operations"),  offset by changes in working capital as a result of the timing of
receipts and  disbursements  and the effects of net interest and current  income
tax expense.

     Net cash used in financing  activities from continuing  operations includes
borrowings and repayments of debt, proceeds from settlements of Swaps, issuances
and repurchases of our equity securities and deferred  financing costs. Net cash
used in financing  activities from continuing  operations was $1.292 billion for
the year ended  December 31,  2002.  During 2002,  we borrowed  $8.759  billion,
consisting of:

      o     $7.180 billion under our New Credit Facilities,

      o     $1.135 billion under revolving credit facilities, and

      o     $444 million under Comcast Cable's commercial paper program.

     During 2002, we repaid $9.808 billion of our debt, consisting of:

      o     $5.85 billion of Broadband intercompany  indebtedness due at closing
            of the Broadband acquisition,

      o     $1.525 billion on certain of our revolving credit facilities,

      o     $1.023 billion of our Zero Coupon Debentures,

      o     $841 million under Comcast Cable's commercial paper program,

      o     $250 million of short-term debt,

      o     $200 million of our senior subordinated debentures, and

      o     $119 million under capital leases and other.


     During 2002, we received proceeds of $57 million from settlement of certain
of our Swaps, and incurred $332 million of deferred financing costs.

     Net cash used in investing  activities from continuing  operations includes
the effects of  acquisitions,  net of cash acquired,  purchases of  investments,
capital expenditures and additions to intangible assets, offset by proceeds from
sales of  investments.  Net cash used in investing  activities  from  continuing
operations was $1.272 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002.

     During 2002, acquisitions,  net of cash acquired, amounted to $251 million,
related  primarily to our acquisition of Broadband.  Capital  expenditures  were
$1.975 billion and additions to intangible and other noncurrent assets were $221
million,  including $65 million  related to the  satellite and cable  television
affiliation  agreements of QVC and our content  subsidiaries.  Such amounts were
offset, in part, by proceeds from sales and settlements of investments of $1.263
billion.

Results of Operations

     The effects of the Broadband  acquisition and our other recent acquisitions
were to increase  our  revenues  and  expenses,  resulting  in  increases in our
operating  income before  depreciation  and  amortization.  The increases in our
property  and  equipment,   intangible   assets  and  long-term  debt,  and  the
corresponding  increases in depreciation  expense and interest expense from 2001
to 2002 are primarily due to the effects of the Broadband  acquisition,  and the
increases   from  2000  to  2001  are  primarily  due  to  the  effects  of  our
acquisitions,  our cable systems  exchanges and our increased  levels of capital
expenditures.

     As the effect of the Broadband  acquisition was to  substantially  increase
the  size  of  our  cable  operations,  direct  comparisons  of our  results  of
operations  and  financial  condition  for periods prior to November 18, 2002 to
subsequent  periods are not meaningful.  Refer to "Pro Forma 2002 Results" below
for our 2002  supplemental  pro forma financial  information  prepared as if the
Broadband acquisition occurred on January 1, 2002.

     Refer to Notes 5 and 12 to our financial  statements included in Item 8 for
a discussion of our acquisitions and cable systems exchanges,  and of the effect
of these


                                     - 28 -

<PAGE>
transactions on our balance sheet.

     We  adopted  SFAS No.  142 on  January  1,  2002,  as  required  by the new
statement.  See  "Amortization"  on page 32 for a  discussion  of the impact the
adoption of the new statement had on our  consolidated  financial  condition and
results of operations.

     Our summarized consolidated financial information for the three years ended
December 31, 2002 is as follows (dollars in millions, "NM" denotes percentage is
not meaningful):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        Year Ended
                                                                       December 31,         Increase/(Decrease)
                                                                     2002         2001          $          %
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>
Revenues........................................................     $12,460       $9,836      $2,624       26.7%
Cost of goods sold from electronic retailing....................       2,793        2,514         279       11.1
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.........       5,976        4,652       1,324       28.5
Depreciation....................................................       1,775        1,211         564       46.6
Amortization....................................................         257        2,205      (1,948)     (88.3)
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
Operating income (loss).........................................       1,659         (746)      2,405         NM
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
Interest expense................................................        (884)        (734)        150       20.4
Investment income (expense).....................................        (605)       1,062      (1,667)        NM
Equity in net losses of affiliates..............................        (103)         (29)         74      255.2
Other income....................................................           3        1,301      (1,298)     (99.8)
Income tax expense..............................................        (134)        (470)       (336)     (71.5)
Minority interest...............................................        (212)        (160)         52       32.5
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
Income (loss) from continuing operations before
   cumulative effect of accounting change.......................       ($276)        $224       ($500)        NM
                                                                  ==========    =========   =========  =========
Operating income before depreciation and amortization (1) ......      $3,691       $2,670      $1,021      38.2%
                                                                  ==========    =========   =========  =========

                                                                        Year Ended
                                                                       December 31,         Increase/(Decrease)
                                                                     2001         2000          $          %
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
Revenues........................................................      $9,836       $8,357      $1,479       17.7%
Cost of goods sold from electronic retailing....................       2,514        2,285         229       10.0
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.........       4,652        3,614       1,038       28.7
Depreciation....................................................       1,211          837         374       44.7
Amortization....................................................       2,205        1,782         423       23.7
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
Operating loss..................................................        (746)        (161)        585      363.4
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
Interest expense................................................        (734)        (728)          6        0.8
Investment income...............................................       1,062          984          78        7.9
Income related to indexed debt..................................                      666        (666)    (100.0)
Equity in net losses of affiliates..............................         (29)         (22)          7       31.8
Other income....................................................       1,301        2,826      (1,525)     (54.0)
Income tax expense..............................................        (470)      (1,429)       (959)     (67.1)
Minority interest...............................................        (160)        (115)         45       39.1
                                                                  ----------    ---------   ---------  ---------
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change............        $224       $2,021     ($1,797)     (88.9%)
                                                                  ==========    =========   =========  =========
Operating income before depreciation and amortization (1) ......      $2,670       $2,458        $212        8.6%
                                                                  ==========    =========   =========  =========
____________

<FN>
(1)  Operating income before  depreciation and amortization is commonly referred
     to in our  businesses  as  "EBITDA."  EBITDA  is a measure  of a  company's
     ability to generate cash to service its obligations, including debt service
     obligations, and to finance capital and other expenditures.  In part due to
     the  capital   intensive   nature  of  our  businesses  and  the  resulting
     significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense, EBITDA
     is  frequently  used as one of the bases for  comparing  businesses  in our
     industries,  although  our  measure  of  EBITDA  may not be  comparable  to
     similarly titled measures of other  companies.  EBITDA is the primary basis
     used  by  our  management  to  measure  the  operating  performance  of our
     businesses.  EBITDA  does not purport to  represent  net income or net cash
     provided  by  operating  activities,  as  those  terms  are  defined  under
     generally accepted accounting  principles,  and should not be considered as
     an alternative to such measurements as an indicator of our performance. See
     "Statement  of Cash Flows" above for a discussion  of net cash  provided by
     operating activities.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                     - 29 -


<PAGE>


Consolidated Operating Results

     Revenues

     The increases in  consolidated  revenues from 2001 to 2002 and from 2000 to
2001 are primarily  attributable  to increases in service  revenues in our Cable
segment and to increases in net sales in our  Commerce  segment (see  "Operating
Results by Business Segment" below).  The remaining  increases are primarily the
result of increases in revenues from our content operations,  principally due to
growth in our historical operations and the effects of our acquisitions in 2001.

     On January 1, 2002,  we adopted EITF 01-9,  "Accounting  for  Consideration
Given to a Customer  (Including a Reseller of the Vendor's  Products)"  and EITF
01-14,  "Income  Statement   Characterization  of  Reimbursements  Received  for
'Out-of-Pocket'  Expenses  Incurred."  We have  reclassified  our  statement  of
operations  for all periods  presented  to reflect the adoption of EITF 01-9 and
EITF  01-14.  The  changes  in  classification  had no  impact  on our  reported
operating income (loss) or financial condition. Refer to Note 2 to our financial
statements included in Item 8 for a discussion of EITF 01-9 and EITF 01-14.

     Cost of goods sold from electronic retailing

     Refer to the "Commerce"  section of "Operating Results by Business Segment"
below for a discussion  of the  increases in cost of goods sold from  electronic
retailing.

     Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses

     The   increases   in   consolidated   operating,   selling,   general   and
administrative  expenses  from 2001 to 2002 and from 2000 to 2001 are  primarily
attributable  to  increases  in expenses in our Cable  segment  and, to a lesser
extent, to increases in expenses in our Commerce segment (see "Operating Results
by Business Segment" below). The remaining increases are primarily the result of
increased expenses in our content  operations,  principally due to growth in our
historical operations and the effects of our acquisitions in 2001.

     Depreciation

     The  increases in  depreciation  expense from 2001 to 2002 and from 2000 to
2001 are primarily  attributable to our Cable segment and are principally due to
the effects of our recent  acquisitions,  our cable  systems  exchanges  and our
increased levels of capital  expenditures.  Depreciation expense in our Commerce
segment was  essentially  unchanged.  The  remaining  increases in  depreciation
expense from 2000 to 2001 are primarily the result of increases in  depreciation
in our content  operations,  principally due to the effects of our  acquisitions
and increased levels of capital expenditures.

     Amortization

     Of the $1.948 billion  decrease in amortization  expense from 2001 to 2002,
$2.002  billion is  attributable  to the  adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1,
2002. The remaining  change is primarily the result of increases in amortization
expense  in our  content  operations,  principally  due to  the  effects  of our
acquisitions.  The $423 million  increase in  amortization  expense from 2000 to
2001 is primarily due to the effects of our acquisitions. Refer to Note 7 to our
financial  statements included in Item 8 for the pro forma impact of adoption of
SFAS No. 142 on amortization expense.

     Operating Results by Business Segment

     The following  represent the operating results of our significant  business
segments, "Cable" and "Commerce." The remaining components of our operations are
not independently significant to our consolidated financial condition or results
of operations.  Refer to Note 14 to our financial  statements included in Item 8
for a summary of our financial data by business segment.

                           ---------------------------

                                     - 30 -

<PAGE>


     Cable
     The following  table presents  financial  information for our Cable segment
(dollars  in  millions).   The  effect  of  the  Broadband  acquisition  was  to
substantially increase the size of our cable operations,  thereby increasing our
revenues and  expenses,  resulting in increases in our  operating  income before
depreciation and amortization. Accordingly, direct comparisons of our results of
operations for periods prior to November 18, 2002 to subsequent  periods are not
meaningful.  Refer to "Pro Forma 2002 Results"  below for our 2002  supplemental
pro  forma  financial  information  prepared  as if  the  Broadband  acquisition
occurred on January 1, 2002.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Year Ended
                                                                     December 31,                Increase
                                                                  2002          2001           $           %
                                                               ----------    ----------     --------    -------
<S>                                                                <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>
Video.........................................................     $5,516        $4,278       $1,238       28.9%
High-speed Internet...........................................        715           294          421      143.2
Advertising sales.............................................        474           326          148       45.4
Other.........................................................        402           232          170       73.3
Franchise fees................................................        243           193           50       25.9
                                                               ----------    ----------     --------    -------
     Revenues.................................................      7,350         5,323        2,027       38.1

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.......      4,552         3,269        1,283       39.2
                                                               ----------    ----------     --------    -------

Operating income before depreciation and
amortization (a)..............................................     $2,798        $2,054         $744       36.2%
                                                               ==========    ==========     ========    =======

                                                                      Year Ended
                                                                     December 31,                Increase
                                                                  2001          2000           $           %
                                                               ----------    ----------     --------    -------
Video.........................................................     $4,278        $3,651         $627       17.2%
High-speed Internet...........................................        294           114          180      157.9
Advertising sales.............................................        326           290           36       12.4
Other.........................................................        232           153           79       51.6
Franchise fees................................................        193           154           39       25.3
                                                               ----------    ----------     --------    -------
     Revenues.................................................      5,323         4,362          961       22.0

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.......      3,269         2,459          810       32.9
                                                               ----------    ----------     --------    -------

Operating income before depreciation and
     amortization (a).........................................     $2,054        $1,903         $151        7.9%
                                                               ==========    ==========     ========    =======
_______________
<FN>
(a) See footnote (1) on page 29.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Video revenue consists of our basic, expanded basic, premium, pay-per-view,
equipment and digital  cable  services.  Of the $1.238  billion and $627 million
increases  in video  revenues  from  2001 to 2002 and  from  2000 to 2001,  $945
million and $339 million,  respectively,  are attributable to the effects of our
acquisitions  of cable systems and $293 million and $288 million,  respectively,
relate to changes in rates and subscriber  growth in our historical  operations,
driven principally by growth in digital subscribers,  and to a lesser extent, to
the effects of a higher- priced digital service offering made in the second half
of 2000. During 2002, we added approximately  4,374,000 digital subscribers as a
result of the Broadband  acquisition and we added approximately  505,000 digital
subscribers through growth in our historical  operations.  During 2001 and 2000,
through  acquisitions  and  growth  in  our  historical  operations,   we  added
approximately 534,000 and 753,000 digital subscribers, respectively.

     The  increases in  high-speed  Internet  revenue from 2001 to 2002 and from
2000  to  2001  are  primarily  due  to  the  addition  of  high-speed  Internet
subscribers.  During 2002, we added approximately  2,094,000 high-speed Internet
subscribers as a result of the Broadband  acquisition and we added approximately
578,000  high-  speed  Internet  subscribers  through  growth in our  historical
operations.  During  2001 and  2000,  through  acquisitions  and  growth  in our
historical  operations,  we added  approximately  548,000 and 258,000 high-speed
Internet subscribers, respectively.

     The increase in  advertising  sales revenue from 2001 to 2002 is due to the
effects of the  Broadband  acquisition,  as well as to the effects of a stronger
advertising  market  and  the  continued  leveraging  of our  market-wide  fiber
interconnects.  The increase in advertising  sales revenue from 2000 to 2001 was
attributable  to the effects of new  advertising  contracts,  market-wide  fiber
interconnects and

                                     - 31 -

<PAGE>

the continued  leveraging of our existing fiber  networks,  helping to offset an
otherwise weak advertising environment.

     Other  revenue  includes  phone  revenues,   installation  revenues,  guide
revenues, commissions from electronic retailing, revenues of our regional sports
programming networks and revenue from other product offerings. The increase from
2001 to 2002 in other  revenue is  primarily  attributable  to  increased  phone
revenues and other product  revenues as a result of the  Broadband  acquisition.
The increase from 2000 to 2001 in other revenue is primarily attributable to the
effects of our acquisition of Home Team Sports (now known as CSN  Mid-Atlantic).
The remaining increases from 2000 to 2001 and from 2001 to 2002 are attributable
to growth in our historical operations.

     The increase in operating,  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses
from 2001 to 2002 is  primarily  attributable  to the  effects of the  Broadband
acquisition,  as well as to the  effects  of  increases  in the  costs  of cable
programming,  increases in labor costs and other volume- related expenses in our
historical  operations,  and, to a lesser  extent,  to the effects of high-speed
Internet subscriber growth.

     On September 28, 2001, At Home Corporation ("At Home"), our former provider
of high-speed  Internet  services,  filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S.  Bankruptcy Code. In October 2001, we amended our agreement with At Home to
continue service to our existing and new subscribers during October and November
2001.  We agreed  to be  charged a higher  rate than we had  incurred  under our
previous  agreement.  On December 3, 2001,  we reached a  definitive  agreement,
approved by the Bankruptcy  Court, with At Home pursuant to which At Home agreed
to continue to provide  high-speed  Internet  services to our  existing  and new
subscribers  through  February 28, 2002. In December  2001, we began to transfer
our  high-speed  Internet  subscribers  from  the At  Home  network  to our  new
Comcast-owned  and managed  network.  We completed  this  transition in February
2002.  Operating  expenses in our  consolidated  statement of operations for the
year ended  December 31, 2001 include $140 million of net  incremental  expenses
incurred  in the fourth  quarter of 2001 in the  continuation  of service to and
transition of our high-speed Internet  subscribers from At Home's network to our
network.

     The remaining  increases from 2000 to 2001 in operating,  selling,  general
and administrative expenses are primarily due to the effects of our acquisitions
and  exchanges of cable  systems,  as well as to the effects of increases in the
costs of cable programming,  high-speed  Internet  subscriber growth,  and, to a
lesser extent, increases in labor costs and other volume related expenses in our
historical operations.

     Our  cost of  programming  increases  as a  result  of  changes  in  rates,
subscriber  growth,  additional  channel  offerings  and  our  acquisitions  and
exchanges of cable  systems.  We anticipate the cost of cable  programming  will
increase  in the  future as cable  programming  rates  increase  and  additional
sources of cable programming become available.


                                     - 32 -


<PAGE>

     Commerce

     The  following  table sets forth the  operating  results  for our  Commerce
segment, which consists of QVC, Inc. and subsidiaries (dollars in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year Ended
                                                                      December 31,                Increase
                                                                   2002           2001          $          %
                                                                 ---------      --------     -------     ------
<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>           <C>        <C>
Net sales from electronic retailing...........................      $4,381        $3,917        $464       11.8%
Cost of goods sold from electronic retailing..................       2,793         2,514         279       11.1
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.......         730           681          49        7.2
                                                                 ---------      --------     -------     ------
Operating income before depreciation and
     amortization (a).........................................        $858          $722        $136       18.7%
                                                                 ---------      --------     -------     ------
Gross margin..................................................        36.3%         35.8%
                                                                 =========      ========

                                                                       Year Ended
                                                                      December 31,                Increase
                                                                   2001           2000          $          %
                                                                 ---------      --------     -------     ------
Net sales from electronic retailing...........................      $3,917        $3,536        $381       10.8%
Cost of goods sold from electronic retailing..................       2,514         2,285         229       10.0
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.......         681           632          49        7.8
                                                                 ---------      --------     -------     ------
Operating income before depreciation and
     amortization (a).........................................        $722          $619        $103       16.7%
                                                                 ---------      --------     -------     ------
Gross margin..................................................        35.8%         35.4%
                                                                 =========      ========
_______________
<FN>
(a) See footnote (1) on page 29.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Of the $464 million and $381 million increases in net sales from electronic
retailing  from  2001 to 2002  and  from  2000 to 2001,  $296  million  and $332
million,  respectively,  is attributable to increases in net sales in the United
States. This growth is principally the result of increases in the average number
of homes receiving QVC services and in net sales per home as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                                      2002                  2001
                                                              --------------------- ---------------------

<S>                                                                    <C>                    <C>
Increase in average number of homes in U.S....................         3.6%                   3.8%
Increase in net sales per home in U.S.........................         5.3%                   6.5%
</TABLE>

     It is  unlikely  that  the  number  of  homes  receiving  the  QVC  service
domestically  will  continue to grow at rates  comparable to prior periods given
that the QVC service is already received by approximately  97% of all U.S. cable
television homes and  substantially  all satellite  television homes in the U.S.
Future growth in sales will depend  increasingly  on continued  additions of new
customers from homes already  receiving the QVC service and continued  growth in
repeat sales to existing customers.

     The  remaining  increases of $168 million and $49 million in net sales from
electronic  retailing  from  2001 to 2002  and from  2000 to 2001 are  primarily
attributable to increases in net sales in Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom,
offset,  in part, by the effects of  fluctuations in foreign  currency  exchange
rates during the periods.

     The increases in cost of goods sold from 2001 to 2002 and from 2000 to 2001
are primarily  related to the growth in net sales. The increases in gross margin
are primarily due to the effects of increases in product margins.

     The increases in operating,  selling,  general and administrative  expenses
from 2001 to 2002 and from  2000 to 2001 are  primarily  attributable  to higher
variable costs and personnel costs associated with the increase in sales volume.

                           ---------------------------


                                     - 33 -

<PAGE>


     Consolidated Analysis

     Interest Expense

     The increase in interest  expense from 2001 to 2002 is due to our increased
amount  of debt  outstanding  as a  result  of the  Broadband  acquisition.  The
increase in interest expense from 2000 to 2001 is primarily due to the increases
in our net borrowings.

     We anticipate  that, for the foreseeable  future,  interest expense will be
significant.  We believe  we will  continue  to be able to meet our  obligations
through our ability both to generate  operating  income before  depreciation and
amortization and to obtain external financing.

                           ---------------------------

     Investment Income (Expense)

     Investment income (expense) includes the following (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                                           2002        2001        2000
                                                                         ---------   ---------   ---------

<S>                                                                            <C>         <C>        <C>
Interest and dividend income...........................................        $63         $77        $171
(Losses) gains on sales and exchanges of investments, net..............        (48)        485         887
Investment impairment losses...........................................       (247)       (972)        (74)
Reclassification of unrealized gains...................................                  1,330
Unrealized (loss) gain on trading securities...........................     (1,569)        285
Mark to market adjustments on derivatives related
     to trading securities.............................................      1,340        (185)
Mark to market adjustments on derivatives and hedged items.............       (144)         42
                                                                         ---------   ---------   ---------

     Investment income (expense).......................................      ($605)     $1,062        $984
                                                                         =========   =========   =========
</TABLE>

     The investment  impairment losses for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001 relate  principally to an other than temporary decline in our investment in
AT&T.

     During the year ended  December 31, 2001, we wrote-off our investment in At
Home common  stock based upon a decline in the  investment  that was  considered
other than  temporary.  In connection  with the  realization of this  impairment
loss, we reclassified to investment income (expense) the accumulated  unrealized
gain of $238  million  on our  investment  in At Home  common  stock  which  was
previously  recorded as a component of accumulated  other  comprehensive  income
(loss). We recorded this accumulated unrealized gain prior to our designation of
our right under a stockholders' agreement as a hedge of our investment in the At
Home common stock.

     In June 2001,  we and AT&T  entered  into an  Amended  and  Restated  Share
Issuance  Agreement  (the  "Share  Issuance  Agreement").   AT&T  issued  to  us
approximately  80.3  million  unregistered  shares of AT&T  common  stock and we
agreed to settle our right  under the Share  Exchange  Agreement  to exchange an
aggregate 31.2 million At Home shares and warrants held by us for shares of AT&T
common stock. Under the terms of the Share Issuance  Agreement,  we retained the
At Home  shares  and  warrants  held by us. We  recorded  to  investment  income
(expense) a pre-tax  gain of $296  million,  representing  the fair value of the
increased  consideration  received  by us to settle  our  right  under the Share
Exchange Agreement.

     In connection  with the  reclassification  of our  investment in Sprint PCS
from  an  available  for  sale  security  to a  trading  security  in  2001,  we
reclassified to investment  income (expense) the accumulated  unrealized gain of
$1.092 billion on our investment in Sprint PCS which was previously  recorded as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

     Income Related to Indexed Debt

     Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 133 on January 1, 2001,  we accounted for
the ZONES as an indexed debt  instrument  since the maturity  value is dependent
upon the fair value of Sprint PCS common stock.  During the year ended  December
31, 2000, we recorded  income related to indexed debt of $666 million to reflect
the fair value of the underlying Sprint PCS stock.

     Equity in Net Losses of Affiliates

     The  increase  in equity in net losses of  affiliates  from 2001 to 2002 is
primarily due to other than  temporary  declines in certain of our equity method
investees, the effects of our additional investments, changes in the net

                                     - 34 -

<PAGE>

income or loss of our equity method investees,  as well as to the effects of the
discontinuance  of  amortization  of equity  method  goodwill as a result of the
adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002.  The increase  from 2000 to 2001 is
primarily attributable to the effects of our additional investments,  as well as
the effects of changes in the net income or loss of our equity method investees.

     Other Income

     On October 30, 2001, we acquired from Fox  Entertainment  Group, Inc. ("Fox
Entertainment")  the approximate  83.2% interest in Outdoor Life Network ("OLN")
not previously  owned by us. Upon closing of the  acquisition,  we exchanged our
14.5% interest in Speedvision  Network ("SVN"),  together with a previously made
loan, for Fox  Entertainment's  interest in OLN. In connection with the exchange
of our interest in SVN, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $107 million, representing
the difference between the estimated fair value of our interest in SVN as of the
closing date of the transaction and our cost basis in SVN.

     On January 1, 2001, we completed  our cable systems  exchange with Adelphia
Communications  Corporation  ("Adelphia").  We received  cable  systems  serving
approximately 445,000 subscribers from Adelphia and Adelphia received certain of
our cable systems serving approximately 441,000 subscribers.  We recorded a pre-
tax gain of $1.199 billion,  representing  the difference  between the estimated
fair value of $1.799 billion as of the closing date of the  transaction  and our
cost basis in the systems exchanged.

     On December 31, 2000, we completed our cable systems exchange with AT&T. We
received cable systems serving  approximately  770,000 subscribers from AT&T and
AT&T  received  certain  of our  cable  systems  serving  approximately  700,000
subscribers.  We recorded a pre-tax  gain of $1.711  billion,  representing  the
difference  between the estimated fair value of $2.840 billion as of the closing
date of the transaction and our cost basis in the systems exchanged.

     In August  2000,  we obtained  the right to  exchange  our At Home Series A
Common  Stock with AT&T and we waived  certain  of our At Home  Board  level and
shareholder rights under a stockholders'  agreement. We also agreed to cause our
existing  appointee to the At Home Board of Directors to resign.  In  connection
with the transaction, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $1.045 billion, representing
the estimated fair value of the investment as of the closing date.

     In August  2000,  we exchanged  all of the capital  stock of a wholly owned
subsidiary which held certain wireless  licenses for  approximately  3.2 million
shares of AT&T common stock.  In connection  with the exchange,  we recognized a
pre-tax gain of $98 million,  representing the difference between the fair value
of the  AT&T  shares  received  of  $100  million  and  our  cost  basis  in the
subsidiary.

     Income Tax Expense

     The decreases in income tax expense from 2001 to 2002 and from 2000 to 2001
are  primarily  the result of the effects of changes in our income  before taxes
and minority interest, and non-deductible goodwill amortization.

     Minority Interest

     The  increase in minority  interest  from 2001 to 2002 is  attributable  to
increases  in the  net  income  of  our  less  than  wholly  owned  consolidated
subsidiaries,  as well as to the  minority  interests  in  certain  subsidiaries
acquired in connection with the Broadband acquisition.  The increase in minority
interest from 2000 to 2001 is primarily  attributable  to the effects of changes
in  the  net  income  or  loss  of  our  less  than  wholly  owned  consolidated
subsidiaries.

     Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change

     Upon adoption of SFAS No. 133, we recognized as income a cumulative  effect
of accounting  change,  net of related income taxes,  of $385 million during the
year ended December 31, 2001. The income consisted of a $400 million  adjustment
to  record  the debt  component  of our  ZONES at a  discount  from its value at
maturity and $192 million principally  related to the  reclassification of gains
previously  recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive  income
(loss) on our equity  derivative  instruments,  net of related  deferred  income
taxes of $207 million.

     We believe that our operations are not materially affected by inflation.

                           ---------------------------


                                     - 35 -

<PAGE>

     Pro Forma 2002 Results

     As described above, the Broadband acquisition  substantially  increased the
size of our cable operations.  As a result, direct comparisons of our results of
operations from the periods prior to November 18, 2002 to subsequent periods are
not meaningful.  The following tables reconcile our 2002  consolidated and Cable
segment reported financial information to pro forma amounts and present our 2002
pro  forma  financial  information  on a  quarterly  basis  as if the  Broadband
acquisition  occurred on January 1, 2002. This  information has been prepared in
accordance  with SEC  rules  and  guidance  and is based on our and  Broadband's
historical results of operations. In the opinion of management, this information
is not indicative of what our results would have been had we operated  Broadband
since January 1, 2002, nor of our future results. The financial  information for
Broadband  represents  Broadband's  results for the period from  January 1, 2002
through  November 18,  2002.  The  consolidated  pro forma  results  reflect the
elimination  of all  significant  transactions  between  Broadband and Comcast's
commerce  and  content   businesses   during  2002.  This  pro  forma  financial
information  is presented as  supplemental  information  to assist users of this
Annual Report in analyzing the impact the Broadband  acquisition may have on our
future results of operations (dollars in millions).


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31, 2002
Consolidated Pro Forma Reconciliation                      Comcast    Broadband    Adjustments    Pro Forma
                                                          ---------  -----------  -------------- ------------

<S>                                                         <C>           <C>             <C>       <C>
Revenues..................................................  $12,460       $8,693          ($41)     $21,112
Cost of goods sold from electronic retailing..............    2,793                                   2,793
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses...    5,976        7,023           (37)      12,962
                                                          ---------  -----------  ------------   ----------
Operating income before depreciation and
   amortization (a).......................................    3,691        1,670            (4)       5,357
Depreciation and amortization.............................    2,032        2,602           140        4,774
                                                          ---------  -----------  ------------   ----------
Operating income..........................................   $1,659        ($932)        ($144)        $583
                                                          =========  ===========  ============   ==========


                                                                         Three Months Ended
                                                        -----------------------------------------------------
                                                          March 31,    June 30,  September 30,  December 31,
Consolidated Pro Forma Results                              2002        2002          2002          2002
                                                          ---------   ---------    ----------    ----------

Revenues................................................     $5,036      $5,167        $5,181        $5,728
Cost of goods sold from electronic
   retailing............................................        631         629           643           890
Operating, selling, general and
   administrative expenses .............................      3,153       3,146         3,162         3,501
                                                          ---------   ---------    ----------    ----------
Operating income before depreciation
   and amortization (a).................................     $1,252      $1,392        $1,376        $1,337
                                                          =========  ==========    ==========    ==========


                                                                          Year Ended December 31, 2002
Cable Segment Pro Forma Reconciliation                                 Comcast     Broadband     Pro Forma
                                                                      ----------  ------------  ------------

Revenues..........................................................        $7,350       $8,693       $16,043
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses ..........         4,552        7,023        11,575
                                                                      ----------  -----------   -----------
Operating income before depreciation and amortization (a).........        $2,798       $1,670        $4,468
                                                                      ==========  ===========   ===========


                                                                         Three Months Ended
                                                        -----------------------------------------------------
                                                          March 31,    June 30,  September 30,  December 31,
Cable Segment Pro Forma Results                              2002       2002          2002          2002
                                                          ----------  ---------    ----------    ----------

Revenues................................................      $3,845     $4,011        $4,036        $4,151
Operating, selling, general and
   administrative expenses..............................       2,800      2,833         2,839         3,103
                                                          ----------  ---------    ----------    ----------
Operating income before depreciation
   and amortization (a).................................      $1,045     $1,178        $1,197        $1,048
                                                          ==========  =========    ==========    ==========
_______________
(a) See footnote (1) on page 29.

</TABLE>

                                     - 36 -

<PAGE>

ITEM 8        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA





INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Board of Directors and Stockholders
Comcast Corporation
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

We  have  audited  the  accompanying   consolidated  balance  sheet  of  Comcast
Corporation  (formerly known as AT&T Comcast  Corporation)  and its subsidiaries
(the  "Company") as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the related  consolidated
statements of  operations,  stockholders'  equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2002.  These  financial  statements
are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the  United  States of  America.  Those  standards  require  that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial  statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the  financial  position  of  Comcast  Corporation  and its
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  2002  and  2001,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2002, in conformity with accounting  principles  generally accepted
in the United States of America.

As discussed in Note 2 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  the Company
adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133,  "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended, effective January 1,
2001,  and Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 142,  "Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets," effective January 1, 2002.





Deloitte & Touche LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
March 17, 2003


                                     - 37 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Dollars in millions, except share data)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                          December 31,
                                                                                     2002              2001
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
<S>                                                                                     <C>               <C>
   Cash and cash equivalents..................................................          $781              $350
   Investments................................................................         3,266             2,623
   Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $233 and $154          1,383               967
   Inventories, net...........................................................           479               455
   Assets held for sale.......................................................           613
   Deferred income taxes......................................................           129               129
   Other current assets.......................................................           425               154
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
       Total current assets...................................................         7,076             4,678
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
INVESTMENTS...................................................................        15,207             1,679
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, net of accumulated depreciation of $4,061 and  $2,726.        18,866             7,011
FRANCHISE RIGHTS..............................................................        48,222            16,533
GOODWILL......................................................................        17,397             6,289
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, net of accumulated amortization of $1,022 and $665...         5,599             1,687
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS, net..................................................           738               384
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
                                                                                    $113,105           $38,261
                                                                                   =========         =========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
   Accounts payable...........................................................        $1,663              $698
   Accrued expenses and other current liabilities.............................         5,649             1,661
   Liabilities related to assets held for sale................................            13
   Deferred income taxes......................................................         1,105               404
   Short-term debt............................................................         3,750
   Current portion of long-term debt..........................................         3,203               460
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
       Total current liabilities..............................................        15,383             3,223
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
LONG-TERM DEBT, less current portion..........................................        27,957            11,742
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES.........................................................        23,110             6,376
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES..................................................         5,652             1,567
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
MINORITY INTEREST.............................................................         2,674               880
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (NOTE 13)
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
   Preferred stock - authorized 20,000,000 shares; issued, zero...............
   Class A common stock, $0.01 par value - authorized,
     7,500,000,000 shares; issued, 1,599,014,148 and 21,829,422;
     outstanding, 1,355,373,648 and 21,829,422 ...............................            16
   Class A special common stock, $0.01 par value - authorized,
     7,500,000,000 shares; issued 930,633,433 and 937,256,465; outstanding,
     883,343,590 and 913,931,554..............................................             9                 9
   Class B common stock, $0.01 par value - authorized, 75,000,000 shares;
     issued, 9,444,375........................................................
   Additional capital.........................................................        44,620            12,688
   Retained earnings..........................................................         1,340             1,632
   Treasury stock, 243,640,500 Class A common shares and 47,289,843 Class A special
   common shares..............................................................        (7,517)
   Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)..............................          (139)              144
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
       Total stockholders' equity.............................................        38,329            14,473
                                                                                   ---------         ---------
                                                                                    $113,105           $38,261
                                                                                   =========         =========
</TABLE>


See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                                     - 38 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                                            2002      2001      2000
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
<S>                                                                                         <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
   Service revenues......................................................................   $8,079    $5,919    $4,821
   Net sales from electronic retailing...................................................    4,381     3,917     3,536
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
                                                                                            12,460     9,836     8,357
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
COSTS AND EXPENSES
   Operating (excluding depreciation)....................................................    3,511     2,906     2,210
   Cost of goods sold from electronic retailing (excluding depreciation).................    2,793     2,514     2,285
   Selling, general and administrative...................................................    2,465     1,746     1,404
   Depreciation..........................................................................    1,775     1,211       837
   Amortization..........................................................................      257     2,205     1,782
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
                                                                                            10,801    10,582     8,518
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)..................................................................    1,659      (746)     (161)
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
   Interest expense......................................................................     (884)     (734)     (728)
   Investment income (expense)...........................................................     (605)    1,062       984
   Income related to indexed debt........................................................                          666
   Equity in net losses of affiliates....................................................     (103)      (29)      (22)
   Other income..........................................................................        3     1,301     2,826
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
                                                                                            (1,589)    1,600     3,726
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY
   INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE...................................       70       854     3,565
INCOME TAX EXPENSE.......................................................................     (134)     (470)   (1,429)
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE MINORITY
   INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE...................................      (64)      384     2,136
MINORITY INTEREST........................................................................     (212)     (160)     (115)
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT
    OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE.................................................................     (276)      224     2,021
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS..................................................................        2
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE..............................     (274)      224     2,021
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE...................................................                385
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
NET INCOME (LOSS)........................................................................    ($274)     $609    $2,021
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
BASIC EARNINGS (LOSS) FOR COMMON STOCKHOLDERS PER COMMON SHARE
   Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change  ($0.25)     $0.24     $2.24
   Discontinued operations ..............................................................
   Cumulative effect of accounting change................................................               0.40
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
   Net income (loss).....................................................................   ($0.25)    $0.64     $2.24
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
DILUTED EARNINGS (LOSS) FOR COMMON STOCKHOLDERS PER COMMON SHARE
   Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change   ($0.25)    $0.23     $2.13
   Discontinued operations ..............................................................
   Cumulative effect of accounting change................................................               0.40
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
   Net income (loss).....................................................................   ($0.25)    $0.63     $2.13
                                                                                          ========  ========  ========
</TABLE>

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                                         - 39 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Dollars in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                                             2002         2001         2000
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                                            <C>           <C>        <C>
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
   Net income (loss)....................................................       ($274)        $609       $2,021
   Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided
     by operating activities from continuing operations:
     Depreciation.......................................................       1,775        1,211          837
     Amortization.......................................................         257        2,205        1,782
     Non-cash interest expense, net.....................................          10           43           14
     Non-cash income related to indexed debt............................                                  (666)
     Equity in net losses of affiliates.................................         103           29           22
     Losses (gains) on investments and other (income) expense, net......         673       (2,303)      (3,679)
     Minority interest..................................................         212          160          115
     Cumulative effect of accounting change.............................                     (385)
     Deferred income taxes..............................................        (100)        (241)       1,075
     Proceeds from sales of trading securities..........................                      367
     Other..............................................................         (21)          55           63
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                                               2,635        1,750        1,584
     Changes in working capital, net of effects of acquisitions
      and divestitures
       Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable, net..................          87          (16)        (196)
       Increase in inventories, net.....................................         (25)         (16)         (36)
       (Increase) decrease in other current assets......................         (40)         (27)          14
       Increase (decrease) in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other
         current liabilities............................................         340         (114)        (177)
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                                                 362         (173)        (395)

     Discontinued operations............................................          (2)
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------

       Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations    2,995        1,577        1,189
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
   Proceeds from borrowings.............................................       8,759        5,687        5,435
   Retirements and repayments of debt...................................      (9,808)      (4,188)      (5,356)
   Proceeds from settlement of interest rate exchange agreements........          57
   Issuances of common stock and sales of put options on common stock...          19           27           31
   Repurchases of common stock..........................................                      (27)        (325)
   Equity contributions from a minority partner to a subsidiary.........          13           19           30
   Deferred financing costs.............................................        (332)         (23)         (56)
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------

       Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities from
          continuing operations.........................................      (1,292)       1,495         (241)
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
   Acquisitions, net of cash acquired...................................        (251)      (1,329)        (187)
   Proceeds from sales of (purchases of) short-term investments, net....         (21)          (6)       1,028
   Capital contributions to and purchases of investments................         (67)        (317)      (1,011)
   Proceeds from sales and settlements of investments...................       1,263          806          997
   Capital expenditures.................................................      (1,975)      (2,182)      (1,637)
   Additions to intangible and other noncurrent assets..................        (221)        (346)        (409)
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------

       Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations.      (1,272)      (3,374)      (1,219)
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------


INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS........................         431         (302)        (271)

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, beginning of year............................         350          652          923
                                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, end of year..................................        $781         $350         $652
                                                                           =========    =========    =========

</TABLE>

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                                         - 40 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
(Dollars in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     Accumulated Other
                                                                                                       Comprehensive
                                                                                                       Income (Loss)
                                                                                                    --------------------
                                                                              Retained
                                                Common Stock                  Earnings              Unreal-    Cumul-
                                Series B    ----------------------            (Accumu-  Treasury      ized      ative
                                 Stock             Class A        Additional   lated      Stock     Gains   Translation
                               Preferred   Class A Special Class B Capital   Deficit)    At Cost   (Losses)  Adjustments  Total
                               ------------ ------- ------- ------ --------- ---------- --------  ---------  ----------  --------
<S>                            <C>   <C>     <C>      <C>     <C>   <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>            <C>   <C>

BALANCE, JANUARY 1, 2000 .....  $570                   $7           $4,271     ($620)               $6,120         ($7)   $10,341
Comprehensive loss:
 Net income...................                                                 2,021
 Unrealized losses on
  marketable securities,
  net of deferred taxes
  of $2,789...................                                                                      (5,180)
 Reclassification adjustments
  for gains included in net
  income, net of deferred
  taxes of $266...............                                                                        (494)
 Cumulative translation
  adjustments.................                                                                                      (6)
Total comprehensive loss......                                                                                             (3,659)
 Acquisitions.................                          2            7,739                                                  7,741
 Stock compensation plans.....                                          57       (28)                                          29
 Retirement of common stock...                                         (51)     (274)                                        (325)
 Conversion of Series B
  preferred...................  (533)                                  533
 Series B preferred dividends.    23                                   (23)
 Share exchange...............                                          44       (44)
 Temporary equity related to
  put options.................                                         (41)                                                   (41)
                               ------------ ------- ------- ------ --------- ---------- --------  ---------  ----------  --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2000....    60                    9           12,529     1,055                   446         (13)    14,086
Comprehensive income:
 Net income...................                                                   609
 Unrealized gains on
  marketable securities,
  net of deferred taxes of
  $114........................                                                                         212
 Reclassification adjustments
  for gains included in net
  income, net of deferred
  taxes of $264...............                                                                        (491)
 Unrealized losses on
  effective portion of cash
  flow hedges, net of deferred
  taxes of $0.3...............                                                                          (1)
 Cumulative translation
  adjustments.................                                                                                      (9)
Total comprehensive income....                                                                                                320
 Stock compensation plans.....                                          55       (16)                                          39
 Retirement of common stock...                                         (11)      (16)                                         (27)
 Conversion of Series B
  preferred...................   (60)                                   60
 Temporary equity related to
  put options.................                                          55                                                     55
                               ------------ ------- ------- ------ --------- ---------- --------  ---------  ----------  --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2001....                          9           12,688     1,632                   166         (22)    14,473
Comprehensive loss:
 Net loss.....................                                          (274)
 Unrealized losses on
  marketable securities, net
  of deferred taxes of $165...                                                                        (307)
 Reclassification adjustments
  for losses included in net
  loss, net of deferred taxes
  of $92......................                                                                         169
 Unrealized losses on
  effective portion of cash
  flow hedges, net of
  deferred taxes of $79.......                                                                        (146)
 Cumulative translation
  adjustments.................                                                                                       1
Total comprehensive loss......                                                                                               (557)
 Acquisitions.................                  16                  31,870                (7,517)                          24,369
 Stock compensation plans.....                                          52       (18)                                          34
 Employee stock purchase plan.                                          10                                                     10
                               ------------ ------- ------- ------ --------- ---------- --------  ---------  ----------  --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2002....   $             $16     $9     $    $44,620    $1,340     ($7,517)    ($118)       ($21)   $38,329
                               ============ ======= ======= ====== ========= ========== ========  =========  ==========  ========
</TABLE>



See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                                               - 41 -



<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000


1. ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS

     Comcast   Corporation   (formerly   AT&T  Comcast   Corporation)   and  its
     subsidiaries  (the  "Company") was  incorporated in December 2001 to effect
     the acquisition of AT&T Corp.'s ("AT&T") broadband division  ("Broadband").
     On November 18, 2002, the Company,  Comcast Holdings Corporation  (formerly
     Comcast Corporation)  ("Comcast Holdings") and AT&T completed a transaction
     that resulted in the  combination  of Comcast  Holdings and Broadband  (the
     "Broadband  acquisition").  Upon  completion of the Broadband  acquisition,
     Comcast  Holdings  and  Broadband  are  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  of the
     Company,   with  Comcast  Holdings  as  the  predecessor  to  the  Company.
     Accordingly,  the accompanying  financial statements include the results of
     Comcast  Holdings  for all periods  presented  and the results of Broadband
     from the date of the Broadband acquisition (see Note 5).

     The  Company is  involved  in three  principal  lines of  business:  cable,
     commerce and content.

     The Company's  cable business is principally  involved in the  development,
     management and operation of broadband communications networks in the United
     States. The Company's  consolidated  cable operations served  approximately
     21.3 million subscribers and passed  approximately 39.1 million homes as of
     December 31, 2002.

     The  Company  conducts  its  commerce  business  through  its  consolidated
     subsidiary,  QVC, Inc. ("QVC"). QVC, an electronic retailer, markets a wide
     variety of products directly to consumers primarily on  merchandise-focused
     television programs.  QVC was available,  on a full and part-time basis, to
     approximately  85.9  million  homes in the US,  approximately  11.4 million
     homes in the United  Kingdom  ("UK"),  approximately  25.8 million homes in
     Germany and  approximately  8.4 million  homes in Japan as of December  31,
     2002.

     The  Company's   content   business  is  provided   through  the  Company's
     consolidated  subsidiaries,  including Comcast Spectacor,  E! Entertainment
     Television,  Inc. ("E!  Entertainment"),  The Golf Channel ("TGC"), Outdoor
     Life  Network  ("OLN")  and  G4  Media,  LLC  ("G4"),   and  through  other
     programming  investments (see Note 5). The Company's  content business also
     includes the Company's three 24-hour regional sports programming  networks,
     Comcast   SportsNet   ("CSN"),   Comcast   SportsNet   Mid-Atlantic   ("CSN
     Mid-Atlantic") and Cable Sports Southeast  ("CSS").  The Company's regional
     sports programming  networks are included in the Company's cable segment as
     they derive a  substantial  portion of their  revenues  from the  Company's
     cable operations and are managed by cable segment management.

     The  Company's  cable and commerce  operations  represent the Company's two
     reportable segments under accounting  principles  generally accepted in the
     United States. See Note 14 for a summary of the Company's financial data by
     business segment.

2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Basis of Consolidation
     The consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of the Company
     and all entities  that the Company  directly or  indirectly  controls.  All
     significant  intercompany  accounts  and  transactions  among  consolidated
     entities have been eliminated.

     Variable Interest Entities
     The Company  accounts for its  interests in variable  interest  entities in
     accordance   with   Financial    Accounting    Standards   Board   ("FASB")
     Interpretation No. 46,  "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN
     46"). The Company  consolidates all variable interest entities for which it
     is the primary  beneficiary  and for which the entities do not  effectively
     disperse  risks among parties  involved.  Variable  interest  entities that
     effectively disperse risks are not consolidated unless the Company holds an
     interest or combination of interests that effectively recombines risks that
     were previously dispersed.  The Company adopted the initial recognition and
     measurement provisions of FIN

                                     - 42 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     46  effective  January 1, 2002,  as permitted  by the  Interpretation.  The
     adoption of FIN 46 had no impact on the  Company's  financial  condition or
     results of operations.

     Following  the Broadband  acquisition,  the Company  consolidates  variable
     interest entities that lease certain office and call center facilities to a
     subsidiary of the Company under operating  leases which mature between 2004
     and 2006. The property and debt of the variable  interest entities included
     in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2002 was not
     material to the Company's consolidated financial position.

     Management's Use of Estimates
     The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting
     principles generally accepted in the United States which require management
     to make  estimates  and  assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts and
     disclosures.  Actual results could differ from those  estimates.  Estimates
     are used when  accounting  for  certain  items  such as sales  returns  and
     allowances,  allowances  for  doubtful  accounts,  reserves  for  inventory
     obsolescence,    investments   and   derivative   financial    instruments,
     depreciation and amortization, asset impairment, non-monetary transactions,
     certain acquisition-related liabilities,  pensions and other postretirement
     benefits, income taxes and contingencies.

     Fair Values
     The Company has determined  the estimated  fair value amounts  presented in
     these consolidated  financial statements using available market information
     and appropriate methodologies.  However,  considerable judgment is required
     in  interpreting  market data to develop the  estimates of fair value.  The
     estimates  presented in these  consolidated  financial  statements  are not
     necessarily  indicative  of the amounts that the Company could realize in a
     current market  exchange.  The use of different market  assumptions  and/or
     estimation  methodologies  may have a material effect on the estimated fair
     value  amounts.  The Company based these fair value  estimates on pertinent
     information  available to management as of December 31, 2002 and 2001.  The
     Company has not  comprehensively  updated  these fair value  estimates  for
     purposes of these consolidated financial statements since such dates.

     Cash Equivalents
     Cash  equivalents  consist  principally of commercial  paper,  money market
     funds,  US  Government   obligations  and   certificates  of  deposit  with
     maturities of three months or less when purchased.  The carrying amounts of
     the Company's cash equivalents approximate their fair values.

     Inventories - Electronic Retailing
     Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is determined
     by the average cost method,  which  approximates  the  first-in,  first-out
     method.

     Investments
     Investments consist principally of equity securities.

     Investments  in  entities  in which the Company has the ability to exercise
     significant  influence  over the operating  and  financial  policies of the
     investee  are  accounted  for  under  the  equity  method.   Equity  method
     investments  are  recorded at original  cost and adjusted  periodically  to
     recognize the Company's proportionate share of the investees' net income or
     losses  after the date of  investment,  additional  contributions  made and
     dividends received, and impairment losses resulting from adjustments to net
     realizable  value.   Prior  to  the  adoption  of  Statement  of  Financial
     Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS")  No. 142,  "Goodwill  and Other  Intangible
     Assets"  ("SFAS No. 142") on January 1, 2002,  the goodwill  resulting from
     differences   between   the   Company's   recorded   investments   and  its
     proportionate interests in the book value of the investees' net assets were
     amortized  to equity in net income or loss,  primarily  over a period of 20
     years.  Subsequent  to the  adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company no longer
     amortizes such equity method goodwill (see Note 7).


                                     - 43 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Unrestricted  publicly  traded  investments are classified as available for
     sale or trading  securities  and  recorded at their fair value.  Unrealized
     gains or losses  resulting  from changes in fair value between  measurement
     dates for  available  for sale  securities  are  recorded as a component of
     other  comprehensive  income (loss).  Unrealized  gains or losses resulting
     from changes in fair value between measurement dates for trading securities
     are recorded as a component of investment income (expense). Cash flows from
     all  trading  securities  are  classified  as  cash  flows  from  operating
     activities  while  cash  flows  from all other  investment  securities  are
     classified  as  cash  flows  from  investing  activities  in the  Company's
     statement of cash flows.

     Restricted  publicly  traded  investments and investments in privately held
     companies  are stated at cost,  adjusted for any known  diminution in value
     (see Note 6).

     Property and Equipment
     The  Company  records  property  and  equipment  at cost.  Depreciation  is
     provided  by the  straight-line  method  over  estimated  useful  lives  as
     follows:

              Buildings and improvements.........................2-40 years
              Operating facilities...............................2-12 years
              Other equipment....................................2-15 years

     The Company  capitalizes  improvements that extend asset lives and expenses
     other  repairs and  maintenance  charges as incurred.  The cost and related
     accumulated  depreciation  applicable to assets sold or retired are removed
     from the accounts and the gain or loss on  disposition  is  recognized as a
     component of depreciation expense.

     The Company capitalizes the costs associated with the construction of cable
     transmission   and   distribution   facilities   and  new   cable   service
     installations.  Costs  include all direct labor and  materials,  as well as
     certain indirect costs.

     Intangible Assets
     Cable franchise  rights  represent the value  attributed to agreements with
     local  authorities  that  allow  access  to homes in  cable  service  areas
     acquired in connection with a business combination. The Company capitalizes
     these contractual rights.  Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January
     1, 2002, the Company amortized them over periods related to the term of the
     related franchise  agreements.  Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 142,
     the Company no longer  amortizes cable franchise  rights as the Company has
     determined that they have an indefinite life. Costs incurred by the Company
     in  negotiating  and renewing  cable  franchise  agreements are included in
     other intangible assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
     term of the franchise renewal period, generally 10 to 15 years.

     Goodwill is the excess of the  acquisition  cost of an acquired entity over
     the fair  value  of the  identifiable  net  assets  acquired.  Prior to the
     adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002, the Company amortized goodwill
     over  estimated  useful  lives  ranging  principally  from 20 to 30  years.
     Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company no longer amortizes
     goodwill.

     Other intangible  assets consist  principally of franchise related customer
     relationships,  cable and satellite  television  distribution rights, cable
     franchise renewal costs,  contractual operating rights,  computer software,
     programming costs and rights, and non-competition  agreements.  The Company
     capitalizes  these costs and amortizes them on a  straight-line  basis over
     the term of the related agreements or estimated useful life.

     Certain of the  Company's  content  subsidiaries  and QVC have entered into
     multi-year  affiliation  agreements with various cable and satellite system
     operators  for  carriage  of  their  respective  programming.  The  Company
     capitalizes cable or satellite  distribution rights and amortizes them on a
     straight-line basis over the term of the related distribution agreements of
     5 to 15 years. The Company classifies the amortization of distribution fees
     paid by its content  subsidiaries  pursuant  to Emerging  Issues Task Force
     ("EITF") 01-9, "Accounting for Consideration Given

                                     - 44 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     to a Customer (including a reseller of the Vendors  Products").  Under EITF
     01-9, the amortization of such fees is classified as a reduction of revenue
     unless the content subsidiary  receives,  or will receive,  an identifiable
     benefit  from the cable or  satellite  system  operator  separate  from the
     distribution  fee, in which case the Company  recognizes  the fair value of
     the identified benefit as an operating expense in the period in which it is
     received. The Company classifies the amortization of distribution fees paid
     by QVC as amortization  expense as the counterparties to QVC's distribution
     agreements  do not  make  revenue  payments  to QVC.  Amortization  expense
     includes $23 million,  $24 million and $28 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
     respectively, related to QVC distribution fees.

     Certain direct development costs associated with internal-use  software are
     capitalized,  including external direct costs of material and services, and
     payroll costs for employees  devoting time to the software  projects.  Such
     costs are included  within other assets and are amortized over a period not
     to exceed five years  beginning when the asset is  substantially  ready for
     use.  Costs  incurred  during the  preliminary  project  stage,  as well as
     maintenance  and  training  costs,   are  expensed  as  incurred.   Initial
     operating-system software costs are capitalized and amortized over the life
     of the associated hardware.

     See Note 7 for  additional  information  related to goodwill and intangible
     assets.

     Valuation of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets
     The Company  periodically  evaluates the  recoverability  of its long-lived
     assets,  including  property and equipment and intangible assets subject to
     amortization, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
     carrying amount may not be recoverable.  Such evaluations  include analyses
     based on the cash flows generated by the underlying  assets,  profitability
     information,  including estimated future operating results, trends or other
     determinants   of  fair  value.   If  the  total  of  the  expected  future
     undiscounted  cash flows is less than the carrying  amount of the asset,  a
     loss is  recognized  for the  difference  between  the fair  value  and the
     carrying  value of the  asset.  Unless  presented  separately,  the loss is
     included  as a component  of either  depreciation  expense or  amortization
     expense, as appropriate.

     The Company  evaluates the  recoverability  of its goodwill and  indefinite
     life  intangible  assets  annually or more  frequently  whenever  events or
     changes in  circumstances  indicate  that the asset might be impaired.  The
     Company  performs an impairment  assessment of its goodwill one level below
     the segment level for its businesses, except for its cable business. In its
     cable  business,  components  with  similar  economic  characteristics  are
     aggregated into one reporting unit at the cable segment level.  The Company
     performs an  impairment  assessment  of its cable  franchise  rights at the
     cable segment level based on how the Company operates its cable operations.

     The  Company  estimates  the  fair  value  of its  cable  franchise  rights
     primarily based on a multiple of operating  income before  depreciation and
     amortization  ("EBITDA")  generated by the  underlying  assets.  The EBITDA
     multiple  used in the  Company's  evaluation  is  determined  based  on the
     Company's   analyses   of  current   market   transactions,   profitability
     information,  including estimated future operating results, trends or other
     determinants  of fair value.  The Company also  considers  other  valuation
     methods  such  as  discounted  cash  flow  analyses.  If the  value  of the
     Company's cable franchise  rights  determined by these  evaluations is less
     than its carrying amount,  an impairment charge would be recognized for the
     difference  between the estimated  fair value and the carrying value of the
     assets.

     Foreign Currency Translation
     The Company translates assets and liabilities of its foreign  subsidiaries,
     where the functional currency is the local currency, into US dollars at the
     December 31 exchange rate and records the related  translation  adjustments
     as a component of other comprehensive income (loss). The Company translates
     revenues and expenses using average  exchange rates  prevailing  during the
     year.  Foreign currency  transaction gains and losses are included in other
     income.


                                     - 45 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Revenue Recognition
     The Company recognizes video,  high-speed  Internet,  and phone revenues as
     service is  provided.  The Company  manages  credit  risk by  disconnecting
     services  to  customers  who  are   delinquent.   The  Company   recognizes
     advertising   sales  revenue  at  estimated   realizable  values  when  the
     advertising is aired. Installation revenues obtained from the connection of
     subscribers to the broadband  communications  network are less than related
     direct   selling  costs.   Therefore,   such  revenues  are  recognized  as
     connections  are  completed.   Revenues  derived  from  other  sources  are
     recognized  when services are provided or events occur.  Under the terms of
     its franchise agreements, the Company is generally required to pay up to 5%
     of its gross revenues  derived from  providing  cable services to the local
     franchising  authority.  The Company  normally passes these fees through to
     its cable  subscribers.  The Company  classifies  fees collected from cable
     subscribers  as a  component  of service  revenues  pursuant to EITF 01-14,
     "Income  Statement   Characterization   of   Reimbursements   Received  for
     'Out-of-Pocket' Expenses Incurred."

     The Company  recognizes net sales from electronic  retailing at the time of
     shipment to  customers.  The  Company  classifies  all amounts  billed to a
     customer  for  shipping  and  handling  within  net sales  from  electronic
     retailing. The Company's policy is to allow customers to return merchandise
     for up to thirty days after date of  shipment.  An  allowance  for returned
     merchandise  is  provided  as a  percentage  of sales  based on  historical
     experience.

     The Company's content  businesses  recognize  affiliate fees from cable and
     satellite system operators as programming is provided.  Advertising revenue
     is recognized in the period in which  commercial  announcements or programs
     are  telecast  in  accordance  with  the  broadcast  calendar.  In  certain
     instances,  the Company's content  businesses  guarantee viewer ratings for
     their  programming.  A  liability  for  deferred  revenue is  provided  for
     estimated  shortfalls,  which are primarily settled by providing additional
     advertising time.

     Programming Costs
     The Company's cable subsidiaries have received or may receive  distribution
     fees from  programming  networks  for  carriage of their  programming.  The
     Company  reflects  the  deferred  portion of these fees  within  noncurrent
     liabilities  and recognizes  the fees as a reduction of  programming  costs
     (which are included in operating expenses) over the term of the programming
     contract.

     Stock-Based Compensation
     The Company  accounts  for  stock-based  compensation  in  accordance  with
     Accounting  Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting for Stock
     Issued to Employees," and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No.
     123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation," as amended.  Compensation
     expense for stock options is measured as the excess,  if any, of the quoted
     market  price of the  Company's  stock at the  date of the  grant  over the
     amount an  employee  must pay to acquire  the stock.  The  Company  records
     compensation expense for restricted stock awards based on the quoted market
     price  of the  Company's  stock at the date of the  grant  and the  vesting
     period.  The Company records  compensation  expense for stock  appreciation
     rights based on the changes in quoted market prices of the Company's  stock
     or other determinants of fair value (see Notes 3 and 10).



                                     - 46 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The  following  table  illustrates  the  effect on net  income  (loss)  and
     earnings  (loss)  per  share if the  Company  had  applied  the fair  value
     recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based compensation (dollars
     in millions, except per share data):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                                                         2002          2001          2000
                                                                      ----------    ----------    ----------

<S>                                                                        <C>            <C>         <C>
     Net income (loss), as reported..................................      ($274)         $609        $2,021

     Deduct: Total stock-based compensation
          expense determined under fair value based method
          for all awards, net of related tax effects.................       (143)         (127)         (103)
                                                                      ----------    ----------    ----------

     Pro forma, net income (loss)....................................      ($417)         $482        $1,918
                                                                      ==========    ==========    ==========

     Basic earnings (loss) for common stockholders per common share:
          As reported................................................     ($0.25)        $0.64         $2.24
          Pro forma..................................................     ($0.38)        $0.51         $2.13

     Diluted earnings (loss) for common stockholders per common share:
          As reported................................................     ($0.25)        $0.63         $2.13
          Pro forma..................................................     ($0.38)        $0.50         $2.02
</TABLE>

     Total stock-based  compensation expense was determined under the fair value
     method for all awards assuming  accelerated  vesting of the Company's stock
     options as permitted  under SFAS No. 123. Had the Company  applied the fair
     value recognition  provisions of SFAS No. 123 assuming straight-line rather
     than  accelerated   vesting  of  its  stock  options,   total   stock-based
     compensation  expense,  net of related  tax  effects,  would have been $114
     million,   $89  million,   and  $67  million  for  2002,   2001  and  2000,
     respectively.

     The weighted-average  fair value at date of grant of a Class A common stock
     option granted under the Company's option plans during 2002 was $10.72. The
     weighted-average  fair  value at date of grant of a Class A Special  common
     stock option granted under the option plans during 2002,  2001 and 2000 was
     $14.93,  $19.07 and  $21.20,  respectively.  The fair value of each  option
     granted during 2002, 2001 and 2000 was estimated on the date of grant using
     the Black-Scholes  option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
     assumptions:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Year Ended December 31,

                                                       2002                       2001               2000
                                         ---------------------------------  -----------------  ----------------
                                             Class A      Class A Special    Class A Special   Class A Special
                                          Common Stock      Common Stock      Common Stock       Common Stock
                                         ---------------  ----------------  -----------------  ----------------
<S>                                               <C>             <C>                <C>                <C>
     Dividend yield.....................          0%              0%                 0%                 0%
     Expected volatility................       29.2%           29.6%              35.7%              35.8%
     Risk-free interest rate............        4.0%            5.1%               5.1%               6.3%
     Expected option lives (in years)...        8.0             8.0                8.0                8.0
     Forfeiture rate....................        3.0%            3.0%               3.0%               3.0%
</TABLE>


                                     - 47 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The pro forma effect on net income  (loss) and net income  (loss) per share
     for the years ended  December 31, 2002,  2001 and 2000 by applying SFAS No.
     123 may not be  indicative of the pro forma effect on net income or loss in
     future years since SFAS No. 123 does not take into  consideration pro forma
     compensation  expense  related to awards  made prior to January 1, 1995 and
     since additional awards in future years are anticipated.

     Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits
     The Company charges to operations the estimated  costs of retiree  benefits
     and benefits for former or inactive employees,  after employment but before
     retirement, during the years the employees provide services (see Note 9).

     Investment Income (Expense)
     Investment income (expense)  includes interest income,  dividend income and
     gains, net of losses,  on the sales and exchanges of marketable  securities
     and long-term investments.  The Company recognizes gross realized gains and
     losses  using  the  specific   identification  method.   Investment  income
     (expense) also includes  unrealized gains or losses on trading  securities,
     mark to market  adjustments on derivatives and hedged items, and impairment
     losses resulting from adjustments to the net realizable value of certain of
     the Company's investments (see Note 6).

     Income Taxes
     The Company  recognizes  deferred tax assets and  liabilities for temporary
     differences  between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the
     Company's  assets and  liabilities  and expected  benefits of utilizing net
     operating  loss  carryforwards.  The impact on deferred taxes of changes in
     tax rates and laws,  if any,  applied to the years during  which  temporary
     differences are expected to be settled,  are reflected in the  consolidated
     financial statements in the period of enactment (see Note 11).

     Derivative Financial Instruments
     The Company uses derivative financial instruments for a number of purposes.
     The Company  manages  its  exposure to  fluctuations  in interest  rates by
     entering into interest rate exchange  agreements  ("Swaps"),  interest rate
     lock agreements ("Rate Locks"),  interest rate cap agreements  ("Caps") and
     interest rate collar agreements  ("Collars").  The Company manages the cost
     of its share  repurchases  through the sale of equity put option  contracts
     ("Comcast Put Options").  The Company  manages its exposure to fluctuations
     in the value of certain of its  investments  by entering into equity collar
     agreements ("Equity Collars") and equity put option agreements ("Equity Put
     Options").  The Company makes  investments in  businesses,  to some degree,
     through  the  purchase of equity  call  option or call  warrant  agreements
     ("Equity  Warrants").  The Company has issued indexed debt  instruments and
     entered into prepaid  forward sale  agreements  ("Prepaid  Forward  Sales")
     whose value, in part, is derived from the market value of Sprint PCS common
     stock,  and has also sold call  options on certain  of its  investments  in
     equity securities in order to monetize a portion of those  investments.  In
     connection with the Broadband acquisition, the Company assumed indexed debt
     instruments  whose value,  in part,  is derived  from the market  values of
     Comcast Class A Special common stock,  Cablevision NY Group ("Cablevision")
     Class A common stock, Microsoft Corporation  ("Microsoft") common stock and
     Vodafone ADRs,  respectively.  Equity hedges are used to manage exposure to
     changes  in equity  prices  associated  with stock  appreciation  rights of
     certain of Broadband's previously affiliated companies and are undesignated
     in accordance  with SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting  for Derivatives and Hedging
     Activities," as amended ("SFAS No. 133"). These instruments are recorded at
     fair value based on market quotes.

     Prior to the adoption on January 1, 2001 of SFAS No. 133,  Swaps,  Caps and
     Collars were  matched with either fixed or variable  rate debt and periodic
     cash  payments  were  accrued on a  settlement  basis as an  adjustment  to
     interest  expense.  Any premiums  associated  with these  instruments  were
     amortized  over their term and realized  gains or losses as a result of the
     termination  of the  instruments  were  deferred  and  amortized  over  the
     remaining term of the  underlying  debt.  Unrealized  gains and losses as a
     result of these instruments were recognized when the underlying hedged item
     was  extinguished  or  otherwise  terminated.  Equity  Collars,  Equity Put
     Options and Equity  Warrants  were marked to market on a current basis with
     the result included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the
     Company's consolidated balance sheet.


                                     - 48 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     On  January  1,  2001,  the  Company  adopted  SFAS No.  133.  SFAS No. 133
     establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative  instruments,
     including certain  derivative  instruments  embedded in other contracts and
     hedging activities.  SFAS No. 133 requires that all derivative instruments,
     whether  designated  in hedging  relationships  or not,  be recorded on the
     balance  sheet at their fair  values.  Upon  adoption of SFAS No. 133,  the
     Company  recognized as income a cumulative effect of accounting change, net
     of related income taxes, of $385 million.  The increase in income consisted
     of a $400 million  adjustment to record the debt  component of indexed debt
     at a  discount  from its value at  maturity  and $192  million  principally
     related  to  the  reclassification  of  gains  previously  recognized  as a
     component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the Company's
     equity derivative instruments, net of related income taxes of $207 million.

     For derivative  instruments  designated and effective as fair value hedges,
     such as the  Company's  Equity  Collars,  Equity Put  Options  and Fixed to
     Variable Swaps, changes in the fair value of the derivative  instrument are
     substantially offset in the consolidated statement of operations by changes
     in the fair value of the hedged item. For derivative instruments designated
     as cash flow hedges, such as the Company's Variable to Fixed Swaps and Rate
     Locks,   the   effective   portion  of  any  hedge  is  reported  in  other
     comprehensive  income (loss) until it is recognized in earnings  during the
     same  period in which the hedged item  affects  earnings.  The  ineffective
     portion  of all  hedges is  recognized  in current  earnings  each  period.
     Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated
     as a hedge are recorded each period in current earnings.

     When a fair value hedge is terminated,  sold, exercised or has expired, the
     adjustment in the carrying amount of the fair value hedged item is deferred
     and  recognized  into  earnings  when  the  hedged  item is  recognized  in
     earnings. When a hedged item is extinguished or sold, the adjustment in the
     carrying  amount of the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  When hedged
     variable  rate debt is  extinguished,  the  previously  deferred  effective
     portion of the hedge is written off similar to debt extinguishment costs.

     Subsequent  to  the  adoption  of  SFAS  No.  133,   Equity   Warrants  and
     undesignated  Equity  Collars are marked to market on a current  basis with
     the  result  included  in  investment  income  (expense)  in the  Company's
     consolidated statement of operations.

     Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 133, derivative instruments embedded
     in other  contracts,  such as the Company's  indexed debt  instruments  and
     Prepaid  Forward  Sale,  are  bifurcated  into  their  host and  derivative
     financial  instrument  components.  The derivative component is recorded at
     its estimated fair value in the Company's  consolidated  balance sheet with
     changes in estimated fair value recorded in investment income (expense).

     Proceeds  from sales of Comcast Put Options are  recorded in  stockholders'
     equity and an amount equal to the  redemption  price of the common stock is
     reclassified from permanent equity to temporary equity.  Subsequent changes
     in the market value of Comcast Put Options are not recorded.

     The Company periodically  examines those instruments that have been entered
     into by the Company to hedge  exposure to  interest  rate and equity  price
     risks to ensure that the instruments are matched with underlying  assets or
     liabilities,  reduce the  Company's  risks  relating to  interest  rates or
     equity prices and, through market value and sensitivity analysis,  maintain
     a high  correlation  to the risk  inherent  in the hedged  item.  For those
     instruments  that do not meet the above criteria,  variations in their fair
     value are marked-to-market on a current basis in the Company's consolidated
     statement of operations.

     The Company does not hold or issue any derivative financial instruments for
     trading purposes and is not a party to leveraged  instruments (see Note 8).
     The  Company  manages  the  credit  risks  associated  with its  derivative
     financial   instruments  through  the  evaluation  and  monitoring  of  the
     creditworthiness of the counterparties. Although the Company may be exposed
     to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties, the Company
     does not expect such losses, if any, to be significant.


                                     - 49 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Sale of Stock by a Subsidiary or Equity Method Investee
     Changes in the Company's  proportionate share of the underlying equity of a
     consolidated  subsidiary  or equity method  investee  which result from the
     issuance of  additional  securities  by such  subsidiary  or  investee  are
     recognized  as gains or losses in the Company's  consolidated  statement of
     operations  unless gain  realization  is not assured in the  circumstances.
     Gains for  which  realization  is not  assured  are  credited  directly  to
     additional capital.

     Securities Lending Transactions
     The  Company may enter into  securities  lending  transactions  pursuant to
     which the Company requires the borrower to provide cash collateral equal to
     the value of the loaned  securities,  as  adjusted  for any  changes in the
     value of the underlying loaned securities.  Loaned securities for which the
     Company  maintains  effective  control are included in  investments  in the
     Company's consolidated balance sheet.

     Reclassifications
     Certain  reclassifications  have been made to the prior years' consolidated
     financial statements to conform to those classifications used in 2002.

3.   RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     SFAS No. 143
     SFAS No. 143,  "Accounting  for Asset  Retirement  Obligations,"  addresses
     financial  accounting  and reporting for  obligations  associated  with the
     retirement  of  tangible   long-lived   assets  and  the  associated  asset
     retirement  costs.  SFAS No. 143 is effective  for fiscal  years  beginning
     after June 15, 2002.  The Company  adopted SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003.
     The  adoption  of SFAS  No.  143 will not  have a  material  impact  on the
     Company's financial condition or results of operations.

     SFAS No. 148
     The FASB issued SFAS No. 148,  "Accounting for  Stock-Based  Compensation -
     Transition and  Disclosure," in December 2002. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No.
     123 to  provide  alternative  methods  of  transition  for an  entity  that
     voluntarily  changes  to the fair  value  based  method of  accounting  for
     stock-based employee compensation.  SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure
     provisions  of SFAS No.  123 to  require  disclosure  about the  effects on
     reported net income of an entity's  stock-based  employee  compensation  in
     interim  financial  statements.  SFAS No. 148 is effective for fiscal years
     beginning  after  December  31, 2002.  The Company  adopted SFAS No. 148 on
     January 1, 2003.  The Company did not change to the fair value based method
     of accounting  for  stock-based  employee  compensation.  Accordingly,  the
     adoption  of SFAS  No.  148  would  only  affect  the  Company's  financial
     condition or results of operations  if the Company  elects to change to the
     fair value  method  specified in SFAS No. 123. The adoption of SFAS No. 148
     will,  however,  require  the  Company  to  disclose  the  effects  of  its
     stock-based employee compensation in interim financial statements beginning
     with the first quarter of 2003.

     FIN 45
     In November  2002,  the FASB  issued  Interpretation  No. 45,  "Guarantor's
     Accounting and Disclosure  Requirements for Guarantees,  Including Indirect
     Guarantees of  Indebtedness  of Others"  ("FIN 45").  FIN 45 expands on the
     accounting guidance of SFAS No.'s 5, 57, and 107 and supercedes FIN 34. FIN
     45  clarifies  that a guarantor  is required to disclose in its interim and
     annual financial  statements its obligations under certain  guarantees that
     it has issued, including the nature and terms of the guarantee, the maximum
     potential  amount of future  payments  under the  guarantee,  the  carrying
     amount, if any, for the guarantor's  obligations  under the guarantee,  and
     the nature and extent of any recourse  provisions  or available  collateral
     that would  enable the  guarantor  to recover  the  amounts  paid under the
     guarantee.  FIN 45 also clarifies that, for certain guarantees, a guarantor
     is required to recognize,  at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for
     the fair value of the obligation  undertaken in issuing the guarantee.  FIN
     45 does not prescribe a specific  approach for  subsequently  measuring the
     guarantor's  recognized  liability over the term of the related  guarantee.
     The initial recognition and initial measurement  provisions of FIN 45 apply
     on a  prospective  basis to certain  guarantees  issued or  modified  after
     December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements in FIN 45 are

                                     - 50 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     effective for  financial  statements  of interim or annual  periods  ending
     after December 15, 2002. The Company  adopted the disclosure  provisions of
     FIN 45 in the fourth  quarter of 2002 and adopted  the initial  recognition
     and measurement provisions of FIN 45 on January 1, 2003, as required by the
     Interpretation  (see Note 13).  The impact of the  adoption  of FIN 45 will
     depend on the nature and terms of  guarantees  entered  into or modified by
     the Company in the future.

4.   EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Earnings  (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss)
     for common  stockholders  by the weighted  average  number of common shares
     outstanding  during  the  period on a basic  and  diluted  basis.  Weighted
     average  shares  outstanding  for 2002 include  158.8  million of the 1.348
     billion of the Company's  shares  issued in  connection  with the Broadband
     acquisition on November 18, 2002.

     The Company's  potentially  dilutive  securities  include  potential common
     shares related to the Company's Zero Coupon Convertible Debentures due 2020
     (the "Zero  Coupon  Debentures"  - see Note 8), stock  options,  restricted
     stock, Class A Special common stock held in treasury,  Series B convertible
     preferred  stock,  and Comcast Put  Options.  Diluted  earnings  for common
     stockholders  per common  share  ("Diluted  EPS")  considers  the impact of
     potentially  dilutive securities except in periods in which there is a loss
     as the inclusion of the potential  common shares would have an antidilutive
     effect.  Diluted EPS excludes the impact of potential common shares related
     to the  Company's  Zero Coupon  Debentures in periods in which the weighted
     average  closing sale price of the Company's  Class A Special  common stock
     during  the  period is not  greater  than 110% of the  accreted  conversion
     price.  Diluted EPS excludes the impact of potential  common shares related
     to the  Company's  stock  options in  periods in which the option  exercise
     price is greater  than the average  market  price of the  Company's  common
     stock for the period.  Diluted EPS excludes the impact of potential  common
     shares  related to Comcast  Put Options in periods in which the Comcast Put
     Options'  exercise  price was less  than the  average  market  price of the
     Company's Class A Special common stock during the period.

     Diluted EPS for 2002, 2001 and 2000,  respectively,  excludes approximately
     17.0 million,  21.0 million and 1.6 million potential common shares related
     to the  Zero  Coupon  Debentures,  respectively,  as the  weighted  average
     closing sale price of the  Company's  Class A Special  common stock was not
     greater than 110% of the accreted conversion price.

     Diluted EPS for 2002 excludes  approximately  73.8 million potential common
     shares related to the Company's  stock option and  restricted  stock plans,
     and potential  common shares related to the Company's  common stock held in
     treasury  because the assumed  issuance of such potential  common shares is
     antidilutive in periods in which there is a loss.

     Diluted EPS for 2001 and 2000  excludes  approximately  4.7 million and 2.6
     million  potential  common shares,  respectively,  related to the Company's
     stock option plans because the option  exercise  price was greater than the
     average market price of the Company's common stock for the period.

     Diluted EPS for 2001 and 2000  excludes  approximately  0.2 million and 1.5
     million  potential  common  shares,  respectively,  related to Comcast  Put
     Options  because the Comcast Put Options'  exercise price was less than the
     average  market price of the Company's  Class A Special common stock during
     the period.


                                     - 51 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The  following  table  reconciles  the  numerator  and  denominator  of the
     computations  of Diluted  EPS for  common  stockholders  before  cumulative
     effect of accounting change for the years presented.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             (Amounts in millions, except per share data)
                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                     2002                        2001                        2000
                           ------------------------    -------------------------   -------------------------
                                           Per Share                    Per Share                   Per Share
                            Loss    Shares   Amount    Income   Shares    Amount    Income   Shares   Amount
                           ------   ------ ----------  -------  ------- ---------- --------- ------ ----------
<S>                         <C>      <C>     <C>          <C>       <C>    <C>        <C>       <C>    <C>
Basic EPS for common
  stockholders............. ($274)   1,110   ($0.25)      $224      950    $0.24      $1,998    891    $2.24
Effect of preferred
  dividends................                                                               23

Effect of Dilutive Securities
  Assumed conversion
   of Series B convertible
   preferred stock.........                                           1                          43
  Assumed exercise of
   stock option and
   restricted stock plans..                                          14                          15
                           ------   ------ --------    -------  ------- --------   --------- ------ --------

Diluted EPS................ ($274)   1,110   ($0.25)      $224      965    $0.23      $2,021    949    $2.13
                           ======   ====== ========    =======  ======= ========   ========= ====== ========
</TABLE>

5.   ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT EVENTS

     Acquisition of  Broadband
     On November 18, 2002, the Company  completed the  acquisition of Broadband.
     The  results  of  the  Broadband  operations  have  been  included  in  the
     consolidated  financial statements since that date. The acquisition creates
     the largest cable  operator in the United States by combining the Company's
     and  Broadband's  extensive  cable  networks and  technologically  advanced
     broadband delivery systems.

     The  consideration  to complete the  acquisition  of Broadband  was $50.780
     billion,  consisting of $25.495  billion of the Company's  common stock and
     options,  $24.860  billion of assumed debt, and $425 million of transaction
     costs directly related to the acquisition. The Company issued approximately
     1.348  billion  shares of its  common  stock  (excluding  shares of Class A
     common stock issued and classified as treasury  stock)  consisting of 1.233
     billion  shares of its Class A common  stock to Broadband  shareholders  in
     exchange  for all of AT&T's  interests  in  Broadband,  and the issuance of
     approximately  100.6 million  shares and 14.4 million shares of its Class A
     and Class A Special  common stock,  respectively,  to Microsoft in exchange
     for  Broadband  shares that  Microsoft  received  immediately  prior to the
     completion of the Broadband  acquisition  for  settlement of its $5 billion
     aggregate  principal amount in quarterly income preferred  securities.  The
     Company  also  issued 61.1  million  options in  exchange  for  outstanding
     Broadband  options.  The shares issued for Broadband were valued based on a
     price per share of $18.80 which reflects the weighted  average market price
     of Comcast  Holdings  common  stock  during the period  beginning  two days
     before and ending two days after  August  12,  2002.  The  acquisition  was
     structured as a tax-free  transaction to the Company,  to Comcast  Holdings
     and to AT&T.

     Under the terms of the original  merger  agreement dated December 19, 2001,
     the Company was to assume public debt of Broadband's  subsidiaries and fund
     Broadband's  intercompany  payable due to AT&T.  Subsequent to the original
     merger  agreement,  economic and business  factors  changed  resulting in a
     modification of the  consideration to be exchanged.  On August 12, 2002, in
     connection  with the filing of a proposed  exchange offer by AT&T, the form
     of consideration to be exchanged was modified to provide for the assumption
     by  Broadband  of a  portion  of AT&T's  public  debt  securities,  thereby
     increasing  the amount of debt  assumed by the Company by $3.5  billion and


                                     - 52 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     reducing  the amount of  intercompany  indebtedness  paid at closing.  This
     modification represented a substantive change in the non-equity, or "other"
     consideration,  being  paid,  resulting  in  a  new  measurement  date  for
     determining  the  value of the  common  stock  issued  in the  acquisition.
     Accordingly, the fair value of the shares issued for Broadband was based on
     the August 12, 2002 measurement date.

     Purchase Price  Allocation.  The application of purchase  accounting  under
     SFAS No. 141, "Business  Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141"),  requires that the
     total purchase price be allocated to the fair value of the assets  acquired
     and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the acquisition date.
     The  allocation  process  requires  an  analysis  of  acquired   contracts,
     franchise   related   customer   relationships,   employee  benefit  plans,
     contractual  commitments and legal contingencies to identify and record the
     fair value of all  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  assumed.  In valuing
     acquired assets and liabilities, fair value estimates are based on, but are
     not limited to: future  expected cash flows;  market rate  assumptions  for
     contractual   obligations;   actuarial   assumptions   for  benefit  plans;
     settlement plans for litigation and contingencies; and appropriate discount
     rates.

     As of the  acquisition  date,  the Company  initiated  certain  integration
     activities  based on a  preliminary  plan to terminate  employees  and exit
     certain   contractual   obligations.   Under  the  guidance  in  EITF  95-3
     "Recognition  of  Liabilities  in  Connection  with  a  Purchase   Business
     Combination," the plan must be finalized within one year of the acquisition
     date and must identify all significant  actions to be taken to complete the
     plan.  Therefore,  costs  related  to  terminating  employees  and  exiting
     contractual obligations of the acquired entity are included in the purchase
     price allocation.  Changes to these estimated termination or exit costs are
     reflected as  adjustments  to the purchase  price  allocation to the extent
     they  occur  within  one  year  of the  acquisition  date or if  there  are
     reductions in the amount of estimated  termination  or exit costs  accrued.
     Otherwise, changes will affect future results of operations.

     The following  table  summarizes  the  estimated  fair values of the assets
     acquired and liabilities  assumed and the related  deferred income taxes as
     of the acquisition  date.  Given the size of the Broadband  acquisition and
     close  proximity to year-end,  the value of certain assets and  liabilities
     are based on  preliminary  valuations  and are  subject  to  adjustment  as
     additional  information is obtained.  Such additional information includes:
     reports  from  valuation  specialists;  information  related to the cost of
     terminating or meeting contractual obligations;  and information related to
     preacquisition contingencies.


Current assets......................................................    $ 1,533
Investments, including TWE..........................................     17,325
Property, plant & equipment.........................................     11,757
Amortizable intangible assets:
     Franchise related customer relationships.......................      4,019
     Other..........................................................        146
Cable franchise rights..............................................     31,689
Goodwill............................................................     10,951
Other noncurrent assets.............................................        300
                                                                     ----------
         Total assets...............................................     77,720
                                                                     ----------

Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities....     (4,694)
Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt...............     (8,049)
Long-term debt......................................................    (16,811)
Deferred income taxes...............................................    (17,541)
Other non-current liabilities.......................................    ( 4,277)
Minority interest...................................................     (1,554)
                                                                     ----------
         Total liabilities..........................................    (52,926)
                                                                     ----------

Comcast shares held by Broadband, classified as treasury stock......      1,126
                                                                     ----------
         Net assets acquired........................................    $25,920
                                                                     ==========



                                     - 53 -
<PAGE>
COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     In the aggregate,  the intangible  assets which are subject to amortization
     have a weighted average useful life of 4 years.  Franchise related customer
     relationships  have a weighted  average useful life of 4 years. The $10.951
     billion of goodwill,  none of which was deductible for income tax purposes,
     was assigned to the Company's cable segment.

     Liabilities   associated  with  exit  activities   recorded  in  the  above
     allocation  consist of accrued  employee  termination  and related costs of
     $602  million  and  $929  million   associated  with  either  the  cost  of
     terminating  contracts or the present  value of remaining  amounts  payable
     under non-cancelable contracts. Amounts paid against these accruals totaled
     $110 million and $16 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2002.

     Identification of Comcast Holdings as Acquiring Entity.  The identification
     of  Comcast  Holdings  as the  acquiring  entity  was  made  after  careful
     consideration of all facts and  circumstances,  including those outlined in
     SFAS No. 141 related to voting  rights,  the existence of a large  minority
     voting  interest,   governance   arrangements  and  composition  of  senior
     management. As more fully described below, based on Brian L. Roberts' ("Mr.
     Roberts") nondilutable minority voting interest, his role on the Governance
     and Directors Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors,  his position
     as President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"),  and his right to appoint
     other members of senior management,  as well as the other factors described
     below, it was concluded that Comcast Holdings was the acquiring entity.

     Voting Rights in the Company. Upon closing,  former AT&T shareholders owned
     approximately 60.7% of the Company's voting common stock. Mr. Roberts,  the
     President  and  controlling  shareholder  prior to the  acquisition  owns a
     33.33%   non-dilutable   voting  interest  after  the  acquisition  through
     ownership of the Company's Class B common stock,  representing  the largest
     minority voting  interest in the Company.  The next largest voting interest
     held by an individual shareholder was 4.95%, held by Microsoft. As a result
     of his ownership of the Class B common stock,  Mr. Roberts has the right to
     approve any merger involving the Company or any other  transaction in which
     any  other  person  would  own  more  than 10% of the  common  stock of the
     Company,  the right to approve any issuances of Class B common  stock,  and
     any charter  amendments or other actions that would limit the rights of the
     Class B common stock.

     Governance  Arrangements Relating to the Board of Directors.  The Company's
     Board of Directors  has twelve  members,  five of whom were  designated  by
     Comcast  Holdings,  five of whom were  designated by AT&T,  and two of whom
     were jointly designated and are independent persons. As long as Mr. Roberts
     is the  Chairman or CEO of the Company he will be the chairman of the Board
     committee  that  nominates  the slate of  directors  for the  Company  (the
     "Governance and Directors Nominating Committee").  Prior to the 2004 annual
     meeting of  shareholders,  the remaining four members of the Governance and
     Directors  Nominating  Committee  will  consist  of  independent  directors
     selected by the Comcast Holdings director designees.  After the 2004 annual
     meeting of  shareholders,  the remaining four members of the Governance and
     Directors  Nominating  Committee will be selected by Mr. Roberts from among
     the Company's  independent  directors.  Nominations  of the  Governance and
     Directors   Nominating   Committee  will  be  submitted   directly  to  the
     shareholders without any requirement of Board approval or ratification.

     Governance  Arrangements Relating to Management.  The Company has an Office
     of the  Chairman,  comprised of the Chairman of the Board (the  "Chairman")
     and  the  CEO.  The  Office  of the  Chairman  is the  Company's  principal
     executive  deliberative body with  responsibility  for corporate  strategy,
     policy and direction,  governmental  affairs and other significant matters.
     Mr.  Roberts is the  President  and CEO of the  Company  and he will remain
     President of the Company for as long as he is the CEO. The CEO's powers and
     responsibilities  include the  supervision  and management of the Company's
     business and  operations,  all matters  related to officers and  employees,
     including hiring and termination, all rights and powers typically exercised
     by the chief  executive  officer and  president of a  corporation,  and the
     authority to call special  meetings of the Board of Directors.  Mr. Roberts
     has the right to fill all senior management  positions of the Company after
     consultation   with  the  Chairman.   After  the  2005  annual  meeting  of
     shareholders,  or if the current Chairman ceases to serve as Chairman prior
     to that date,  Mr.  Roberts  will become the  Chairman.  Prior to the sixth
     anniversary  of the 2004  annual  meeting of  shareholders,  removal of Mr.
     Roberts as CEO (or  Chairman)  will require the vote of at least 75% of the
     entire Board.

                                     - 54 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Other Factors.  Comcast Holdings made an unsolicited  offer to purchase all
     of AT&T Broadband.  Subsequent to Comcast  Holdings' offer,  AT&T solicited
     bids from other potential purchasers. The headquarters of the Company is in
     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the headquarters of Comcast Holdings. Following
     the acquisition, the name of the combined company is Comcast Corporation.

     TWE Restructuring
     Included in  investments  acquired in the Broadband  acquisition is a 27.6%
     interest in Time Warner Entertainment Company L.P. ("TWE"). In August 2002,
     AT&T and Comcast Holdings announced that they had entered into an agreement
     with  AOL  Time  Warner,   Inc.  ("AOL  Time  Warner")  providing  for  the
     restructuring  of TWE. The  restructuring  agreement is intended to provide
     for a more orderly and timely  disposition of the Company's 27.6% ownership
     interest  in TWE than  would  likely be  available  under the  registration
     rights  provisions  of  the  existing  TWE  partnership   agreement.   Upon
     consummation  of the  Broadband  acquisition,  the  Company  assumed all of
     AT&T's interest in TWE and in the restructuring  agreement.  As part of the
     restructuring,  TWE will  distribute  to AOL Time Warner all of TWE's major
     content assets, which include Home Box Office,  Warner Bros., and stakes in
     The WB  Network,  Comedy  Central  and Court TV, and  receive  in  exchange
     therefor AOL Time  Warner's  cable assets not  currently  held through TWE.
     Upon closing of the restructuring  agreement, the Company will receive $1.5
     billion  in  common  stock of AOL Time  Warner  (valued  at the time of the
     closing and subject to certain limitations),  and an approximate 21% equity
     interest in the successor  entity to TWE ("Time Warner  Cable",  which will
     then hold all of AOL Time Warner's cable  properties),  in exchange for its
     approximate  27.6%  interest in TWE.  The Company  will also  receive  $2.1
     billion in cash. Time Warner Cable is expected to conduct an initial public
     offering  of  common  stock  following   closing  under  the  restructuring
     agreement.  Also, under the restructuring  agreement, the Company will have
     registration  rights that should facilitate the disposal or monetization of
     its shares in Time Warner Cable and in AOL Time Warner.

     As part of the process of obtaining  approval of the Broadband  acquisition
     from the Federal  Communications  Commission ("FCC"), at the closing of the
     Broadband  acquisition,  the Company  placed its entire  interest in TWE in
     trust for  orderly  disposition.  Any  non-cash  consideration  received in
     respect of such  interest as a result of the TWE  restructuring,  including
     the AOL Time  Warner and Time Warner  Cable  common  stock,  will remain in
     trust  until  disposed  of or FCC  approval  is  obtained  to  remove  such
     interests from the trust (see Note 6).

     Under the trust, the trustee will have exclusive  authority to exercise any
     management or governance  rights  associated  with the securities in trust.
     The  trustee  will also have the  obligation,  subject to the rights of the
     Company as described in the last  sentence of this  paragraph,  to exercise
     available  registration  rights to effect the sale of such  interests  in a
     manner intended to maximize the value received  consistent with the goal of
     disposing such  securities in their  entirety by November  2007.  Following
     this time, if any securities remain in trust, the trustee will be obligated
     to dispose of the  remaining  interests as quickly as possible,  and in any
     event by May 2008. The trustee is also obligated, through November 2007, to
     effect certain  specified types of sale or monetization  transactions  with
     respect to the  securities  as may be proposed by the Company  from time to
     time.

     As a condition  of the closing of the TWE  restructuring,  the Company will
     enter into a three-year  nonexclusive  agreement with AOL Time Warner under
     which the AOL High-Speed  Broadband  service would be made available over a
     three-year  period on certain of the  Company's  cable  systems  which pass
     approximately 10 million homes.

     The TWE restructuring is subject to receipt of certain regulatory approvals
     and other  closing  conditions,  and is expected to close by the end of the
     second  quarter  of 2003.  If the  restructuring  agreement  is  terminated
     without the restructuring being consummated, the parties will return to the
     registration rights process under the TWE partnership agreement.

     Bresnan Transaction
     In  February  2003,  the  Company  announced  that  it had  entered  into a
     definitive  agreement  with  Bresnan  Broadband  Holdings,  LLC and Bresnan
     Communications,  LLC  (together,  "Bresnan")  pursuant to which the Company
     would


                                     - 55 -
<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     transfer  cable  systems  serving   approximately  317,000  subscribers  in
     Montana,  Wyoming,  Colorado  and  Utah to  Bresnan  that the  Company  had
     acquired in  connection  with the Broadband  acquisition.  The Company will
     receive  approximately  $525  million in cash,  plus  preferred  and common
     equity interests in Bresnan in exchange for these cable systems. The assets
     (which  consist  primarily  of cable  franchise  rights  and  property  and
     equipment)  for these cable systems are reported as assets held for sale in
     accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
     Long-Lived  Assets,"  in the  Company's  consolidated  balance  sheet.  The
     results of operations  for period from  November 19, 2002 through  December
     31, 2002 for these cable systems are presented as discontinued  operations,
     net of tax, in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. Revenues
     and  operating  income for these  cable  systems  during  the  period  from
     November  19,  2002  through  December  31,  2002 were $21  million  and $3
     million,  respectively.  The Company  expects this  transaction to close by
     March 31, 2003, subject to customary closing conditions.

     2001 and 2000 Acquisitions and Exchanges
     In 2001, the Company acquired the regional sports programming  network Home
     Team Sports ("HTS") from Viacom,  Inc.  ("Viacom") and Affiliated  Regional
     Communications, Ltd. ("ARC"), various cable systems serving an aggregate of
     697,000  subscribers  from AT&T,  and  additional  interests in programming
     networks   TGC  and  OLN  from  Fox   Entertainment   Group,   Inc.   ("Fox
     Entertainment"). Upon closing of the OLN acquisition, the Company exchanged
     its 14.5%  interest in the  Speedvision  Network  ("SVN"),  together with a
     previously made loan, for Fox Entertainment's  interest in OLN and recorded
     to other income a pre-tax gain of $107 million, representing the difference
     between the estimated fair value of the Company's interest in SVN as of the
     closing date of the  transaction  and the  Company's  cost basis in SVN. In
     2001, the Company also  completed its cable systems  exchange with Adelphia
     Communications  Corporation  ("Adelphia").  The  Company  recorded to other
     income a  pre-tax  gain of  $1.199  billion,  representing  the  difference
     between the estimated  fair value of $1.799  billion as of the closing date
     of the transaction and the Company's cost basis in the systems exchanged.

     In 2000,  the  Company  acquired  cable  operations  consisting  of Lenfest
     Communications,  Inc.  ("Lenfest"),  including  Lenfest's  50%  interest in
     Comcast Cablevision of Garden State, L.P. ("Garden State Cable"), from AT&T
     and the other Lenfest  stockholders,  the minority interest in Comcast MHCP
     Holdings,  L.L.C.  ("Comcast  MHCP") from the California  Public  Employees
     Retirement System  ("CalPERS"),  the minority interest in Jones Intercable,
     Inc. ("Jones Intercable") from the Jones Intercable shareholders, and Prime
     Communications  LLC  ("Prime")  from  Prime's  shareholders.  In 2000,  the
     Company also  completed its cable systems  exchange with AT&T.  The Company
     recorded to other income a pre-tax gain of $1.711 billion, representing the
     difference  between the  estimated  fair value of $2.840  billion as of the
     closing date of the transaction and the Company's cost basis in the systems
     exchanged.



                                     - 56 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The  acquisitions  completed  by the  Company  during  2001 and  2000  were
     accounted  for  under  the  purchase  method of  accounting.  As such,  the
     Company's results include the operating results of the acquired  businesses
     from the dates of acquisition.  A summary of the Company's acquisitions and
     cable  systems  exchanges  for  2001  and 2000 is as  follows  (dollars  in
     millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               % Interest
    Acquisition/Exchange        Acquired        Date             Seller                 Consideration            Value
----------------------------- ------------ --------------- ------------------- -------------------------------- --------
<S>                           <C>         <C>             <C>                 <C>                                  <C>
2001
----
OLN                              83.2%     October 30      Fox Entertainment   Cash and 14.5% interest in SVN       $512

AT&T Cable System                 100%     June 30         AT&T                Cash                                 $519

TGC                              30.8%     June 8          Fox Entertainment   Cash                                 $365

AT&T Cable Systems                100%     April 30        AT&T                63.9 million shares of AT&T        $1,423
                                                                               common stock

HTS                               100%     February 14     Viacom and ARC      Cable distribution of                $240
                                                                               programming

Adelphia Exchange                 100%     January 1       Adelphia            Cable systems                      $1,799

2000
----
AT&T Exchange                     100%     December 31     AT&T                Cable systems                      $2,840

Prime                             100%     August 1        Shareholders        Converted loans, cash and          $1,525
                                                                               assumed debt

Jones Intercable                 60.4%     March 2         Shareholders        35.6 million shares of Comcast     $1,727
                                                                               common stock

Comcast MHCP                      45%      February 10     CalPERS             Cash                                 $750

Lenfest and                       100%     January 18      AT&T and            120.1 million shares of Comcast    $7,340
Garden State Cable                50%                      shareholders        common stock and assumed
                                                                               debt
</TABLE>

     The Broadband  acquisition,  the Company's  cable  systems  exchanges  with
     Adelphia and AT&T, and certain of the Company's acquisitions did not result
     in cash payments but affected  recognized  assets and liabilities (see Note
     12).


                                     - 57 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Unaudited Pro Forma Information
     The following  unaudited pro forma information has been presented as if the
     Broadband  acquisition  occurred on January 1, 2001, the  acquisitions  and
     cable systems exchange made by the Company in 2001 each occurred on January
     1,  2000,  and the  acquisitions  and cable  systems  exchange  made by the
     Company in 2000 each occurred on January 1, 1999. This information is based
     on historical  results of operations,  adjusted for acquisition costs, and,
     in the opinion of  management,  is not  necessarily  indicative of what the
     results  would have been had the Company  operated  the  entities  acquired
     since such dates.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                (Amounts in millions,
                                                                                except per share data)
                                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                                          2002           2001          2000
                                                                       -----------    -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                        <C>            <C>            <C>
     Revenues.......................................................       $21,112        $20,112        $9,151
     Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change....      ($15,071)       ($3,178)       $1,629
     Net income (loss)..............................................      ($15,071)       ($2,793)       $1,629
     Diluted EPS....................................................        ($6.55)        ($1.22)        $1.68
</TABLE>

     The unaudited pro forma  information  for the year ended  December 31, 2002
     includes $11.781 billion,  net of tax, of goodwill and franchise impairment
     charges,  and $56  million  of asset  impairment,  restructuring  and other
     charges  recorded  by  Broadband  prior  to the  closing  of the  Broadband
     acquisition.  The  unaudited  pro  forma  information  for the  year  ended
     December   31,  2001   includes   $1.494   billion  of  asset   impairment,
     restructuring  and other charges recorded by Broadband prior to the closing
     of the Broadband  acquisition.  The unaudited pro forma information for the
     year ended  December  31, 2001  reflects  the  elimination  of  Broadband's
     amortization  expense related to goodwill and cable franchise  rights since
     the Broadband  acquisition  was accounted for under the  provisions of SFAS
     No. 142.

     Other Income
     In August  2000,  the Company  obtained  the right to exchange  its At Home
     Corporation  ("At Home") Series A Common Stock with AT&T and waived certain
     of its At Home Board  level and  shareholder  rights  under a  stockholders
     agreement (the "Share  Exchange  Agreement"-  see Note 6). The Company also
     agreed to cause its existing appointee to the At Home Board of Directors to
     resign.  In connection with the transaction,  the Company recorded to other
     income a pre-tax gain of $1.045  billion,  representing  the estimated fair
     value of the investment as of the closing date.

     In August 2000, the Company  exchanged all of the capital stock of a wholly
     owned subsidiary which held certain wireless licenses for approximately 3.2
     million shares of AT&T common stock. In connection  with the exchange,  the
     Company   recorded  to  other   income  a  pre-tax  gain  of  $98  million,
     representing  the  difference  between  the fair  value of the AT&T  shares
     received of $100 million and the Company's cost basis in the subsidiary.


                                     - 58 -


<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


6. INVESTMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     December 31,
                                                                               2002                2001
                                                                            -----------         -----------
                                                                                 (Dollars in millions)
<S>                                                                                <C>               <C>
     Fair value method
          AT&T Corp....................................................            $287              $1,515
          Cablevision..................................................             694
          Microsoft....................................................           1,967
          Sprint Corp. PCS Group.......................................             369               2,109
          Vodaphone....................................................           1,759
          Other........................................................              82                 136
                                                                            -----------         -----------
                                                                                  5,158               3,760
                                                                            -----------         -----------
     Equity Method
          Cable related................................................           2,542                 142
          Other........................................................             236                 245
                                                                            -----------         -----------
                                                                                  2,778                 387
                                                                            -----------         -----------

     Cost method, principally TWE in 2002..............................          10,537                 155
                                                                            -----------         -----------

              Total investments........................................          18,473               4,302
     Less, current investments.........................................           3,266               2,623
                                                                            -----------         -----------
     Non-current investments...........................................         $15,207              $1,679
                                                                            ===========         ===========
</TABLE>

     Fair Value Method
     The Company  holds  unrestricted  equity  investments  in certain  publicly
     traded  companies,  which it accounts for as available  for sale or trading
     securities.  The net unrealized pre-tax gains on investments  accounted for
     as available  for sale  securities  as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 of $72
     million and $280 million, respectively, have been reported in the Company's
     consolidated   balance   sheet   principally   as  a  component   of  other
     comprehensive  income (loss),  net of related  deferred income taxes of $25
     million and $95 million, respectively.

     The cost, fair value and gross  unrealized  gains and losses related to the
     Company's available for sale securities are as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     December 31,
                                                                               2002                2001
                                                                            -----------         -----------
                                                                                 (Dollars in millions)
                                                                                                -----------
<S>                                                                                <C>               <C>
     Cost.............................................................             $322              $1,355
     Gross unrealized gains...........................................               73                 283
     Gross unrealized losses..........................................               (1)                 (3)
                                                                            -----------         -----------

     Fair value.......................................................             $394              $1,635
                                                                            ===========         ===========

</TABLE>

     In  connection  with  the  Broadband  acquisition,   the  Company  acquired
     investments in Cablevision,  Microsoft and Vodafone which are accounted for
     under the fair value  method.  The Company  designated  all of the acquired
     Microsoft and Vodafone  shares,  and  substantially  all of the Cablevision
     shares,  as trading  securities upon closing of the Broadband  acquisition.
     The Company has entered into Equity Collars and Prepaid Forward Sales which
     are accounted  for at fair value.  The Equity  Collars and Prepaid  Forward
     Sales limit the Company's  exposure to and benefits from price fluctuations
     in Sprint PCS common stock.

                                     - 59 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     In connection with the Broadband  acquisition,  the Company also acquired a
     series  of  option  agreements  (the  "Microsoft  Collars"  and  "Vodaphone
     Collars")  with a  single  bank  counterparty  which  limit  the  Company's
     exposure to and benefits from price  fluctuations  in the Microsoft  common
     stock and Vodafone  ADRs.  The Microsoft  Collars and Vodafone  Collars are
     undesignated  for accounting  purposes in accordance  with SFAS No. 133 and
     are recorded in investments at fair value,  with unrealized gains or losses
     being recorded to investment  income  (expense).  These unrealized gains or
     losses are substantially  offset by the changes in the fair value of shares
     of Microsoft common stock and Vodafone ADRs.

     Equity Method
     The Company's recorded  investments  exceed its proportionate  interests in
     the book  value of the  investees'  net  assets  by  $1.473  billion  as of
     December 31, 2002  (principally  related to the  Company's  investments  in
     Texas Cable Partners, Kansas City Cable Partners and Insight Midwest). As a
     result of the  adoption of SFAS No. 142,  the Company does not amortize the
     goodwill  resulting  from this excess but rather will continue to test such
     excess for impairment in accordance with APB Opinion 18, "The Equity Method
     of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock."

     Equity in net losses of  affiliates  for the year ended  December  31, 2002
     includes  impairment  losses of $53 million,  related  principally to other
     than  temporary  declines in the Company's  investments  in and advances to
     certain of the Company's equity method investees.

     The  Company  does  not  have  any   additional   significant   contractual
     commitments with respect to any of its investments.  However, to the extent
     the Company does not fund its investees'  capital calls,  it exposes itself
     to dilution of its ownership interests.

     Cost Method
     In connection  with the  Broadband  acquisition,  the Company  acquired two
     series of preferred stock of AirTouch Communications, Inc., a subsidiary of
     Vodafone,  which were  recorded at $1.394  billion as of December 31, 2002.
     The dividend and  redemption  activity of the AirTouch  preferred  stock is
     tied to the dividend and redemption  payments associated with substantially
     all of the  preferred  shares  issued by a subsidiary  of the Company.  The
     subsidiary  has  outstanding  three  series  of  preferred  stock  with  an
     aggregate  redemption  value of $1.750  billion.  Substantially  all of the
     preferred  shares are  redeemable  in April 2020 at a  redemption  value of
     $1.650  billion with one of the series  bearing a 9.08%  dividend rate. The
     subsidiary  preferred shares are recorded at $1.511 billion and such amount
     is included in minority interest as of December 31, 2002.

     In  connection  with the  Broadband  acquisition,  the Company  acquired an
     indirect  interest  in Charter  Communications  VIII,  LLC,  a cable  joint
     venture with Charter Communications,  Inc. ("Charter"). In April 2002, AT&T
     exercised  its rights to cause Paul G. Allen,  Charter's  Chairman,  or his
     designee to purchase this indirect interest for approximately  $725 million
     in cash.  The parties  agreed to delay the settlement of the purchase until
     April 14, 2003 while they  negotiated  alternatives  to the  purchase.

     In connection with the Broadband acquisition,  the Company acquired a 27.6%
     interest in TWE. This  investment is accounted for under the cost method as
     the Company  does not have the ability to  exercise  significant  influence
     over the operating and financial policies of TWE (see Note 5).


                                     - 60 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Investment Income (Expense)
     Investment income (expense) includes the following (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                                           2002        2001        2000
                                                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                                            <C>         <C>        <C>
Interest and dividend income...........................................        $63         $77        $171
(Losses) gains on sales and exchanges of investments, net..............        (48)        485         887
Investment impairment losses...........................................       (247)       (972)        (74)
Reclassification of unrealized gains...................................                  1,330
Unrealized (loss) gain on trading securities...........................     (1,569)        285
Mark to market adjustments on derivatives related to trading
     securities........................................................      1,340        (185)
Mark to market adjustments on derivatives and hedged items.............       (144)         42
                                                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
     Investment income (expense).......................................      ($605)     $1,062        $984
                                                                         =========   =========   =========
</TABLE>

     The investment  impairment losses for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
     2001 relate  principally to other than temporary  declines in the Company's
     investment in AT&T.

     During  the year  ended  December  31,  2001,  the  Company  wrote-off  its
     investment  in At Home common stock based upon a decline in the  investment
     that  was  considered   other  than  temporary.   In  connection  with  the
     realization of this impairment loss, the Company reclassified to investment
     income  (expense) the  accumulated  unrealized  gain of $238 million on the
     Company's  investment in At Home common stock which was previously recorded
     as a component  of  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss).  The
     Company  recorded this  accumulated  unrealized gain prior to the Company's
     designation of its right under the Share  Exchange  Agreement as a hedge of
     the  Company's  investment  in the At Home common stock (see Note 5 - Other
     Income).

     In June 2001,  the Company and AT&T  entered  into an Amended and  Restated
     Share Issuance Agreement (the "Share Issuance  Agreement").  AT&T issued to
     the Company  approximately 80.3 million  unregistered shares of AT&T common
     stock and the Company  agreed to settle its right under the Share  Exchange
     Agreement (see Note 5 - Other Income) to exchange an aggregate 31.2 million
     At Home shares and  warrants  held by the Company for shares of AT&T common
     stock.  Under  the  terms of the  Share  Issuance  Agreement,  the  Company
     retained the At Home shares and warrants  held by it. The Company  recorded
     to investment income (expense) a pre-tax gain of $296 million, representing
     the fair value of the  increased  consideration  received by the Company to
     settle its right under the Share Exchange Agreement.

     In August 2001, the Company entered into a ten year Prepaid Forward Sale of
     4.0 million  shares of Sprint PCS common  stock held by the Company  with a
     fair value of  approximately  $98  million  and the  Company  received  $78
     million in cash.  At  maturity,  the  counterparty  is  entitled to receive
     between 2.5 million and 4.0 million  shares of Sprint PCS common stock,  or
     an equivalent amount of cash at the Company's option, based upon the market
     value of Sprint  PCS  common  stock at that  time.  The  Company  split the
     Prepaid  Forward Sale into its  liability  and  derivative  components  and
     recorded both  components of the Prepaid  Forward Sale  obligation in other
     long-term liabilities.  The Company records the change in the fair value of
     the  derivative  component and the accretion of the liability  component to
     investment income (expense).

     The Company reclassified its investment in Sprint PCS from an available for
     sale security to a trading security in connection with the adoption of SFAS
     No. 133 on January 1, 2001. In connection with this  reclassification,  the
     Company recorded to investment income (expense) the accumulated  unrealized
     gain of $1.092 billion on the Company's  investment in Sprint PCS which was
     previously  recorded  as a component  of  accumulated  other  comprehensive
     income (loss).

                                     - 61 -

<PAGE>



COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


7. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     The changes in the  carrying  amount of goodwill by business  segment  (see
     Note 14) for the periods presented are as follows (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      Corporate
                                                         Cable          Commerce      and Other            Total
                                                      ------------    ------------   ------------   ------------
<S>                                                      <C>               <C>            <C>          <C>
     Balance, December 31, 2001......................       $4,688            $835           $766         $6,289
     Acquisitions....................................       10,951                                        10,951
     Purchase price allocation adjustments...........            5                            152            157
                                                      ------------    ------------   ------------   ------------
     Balance, December 31, 2002......................      $15,644            $835           $918        $17,397
                                                      ============    ============   ============   ============
</TABLE>

     In connection  with the Company's  preliminary  purchase  price  allocation
     related to the  Broadband  acquisition  (see Note 5), the Company  recorded
     $10.951 billion of goodwill to the Company's cable segment.

     During 2002,  the Company  recorded  the final  purchase  price  allocation
     related to the Company's  acquisition of OLN, which resulted in an increase
     in goodwill and a corresponding  decrease in cable and satellite television
     distribution  rights.  In addition,  during 2002, the Company  recorded the
     final  purchase  price  allocation  related to certain of its cable  system
     acquisitions, which resulted in an increase in goodwill and a corresponding
     decrease in franchise rights.

     The gross carrying  amount and  accumulated  amortization  of the Company's
     intangible  assets subject to amortization for the periods presented are as
     follows (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              As of December 31, 2002            As of December 31, 2001
                                          --------------------------------   -------------------------------
                                              Gross                              Gross
                                            Carrying         Accumulated       Carrying       Accumulated
                                             Amount         Amortization        Amount        Amortization
                                          -------------    ---------------   -------------  ----------------
<S>                                              <C>                 <C>           <C>
Franchise related customer
     relationships.......................        $4,019              ($42)         $               $
Cable and satellite television
     distribution rights.................         1,618              (491)           1,588            (316)
Cable franchise renewal costs and
     contractual operating rights........           314              (100)             267             (70)
Computer software........................           186               (58)             125             (45)
Programming costs and rights.............           194              (144)             162            (117)
Non-competition agreements and other.....           290              (187)             210            (117)
                                          -------------    --------------    -------------  --------------
                                                 $6,621           ($1,022)          $2,352           ($665)
                                          =============    ==============    =============  ==============

</TABLE>


                                     - 62 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     As of December 31, 2002, the weighted average  amortization  period for the
     Company's  intangible  assets  subject  to  amortization  is 5.3  years and
     estimated  related  amortization  expense  for each of the five years ended
     December 31 is as follows (in millions):


            2003.............................      $1,524
            2004.............................      $1,329
            2005.............................      $1,178
            2006.............................        $667
            2007.............................        $233

     The following pro forma  financial  information  for 2002, 2001 and 2000 is
     presented as if SFAS No. 142 was adopted as of January 1, 2000  (amounts in
     millions, except per share data):



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Years Ended December 31,
                                                                 2002           2001          2000
                                                              -----------    ----------     ---------
<S>                                                                 <C>            <C>         <C>
Net Income (Loss)
   As reported.........................................             ($274)         $609        $2,021
     Amortization of goodwill..........................                             335           304
     Amortization of equity method goodwill............                              15            15
     Amortization of franchise rights..................                           1,083           858
                                                              -----------    ----------     ---------
   As adjusted.........................................             ($274)       $2,042        $3,198
                                                              ===========    ==========     =========

   Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
     accounting change, as adjusted....................             ($274)       $1,657        $3,198
                                                              ===========    ==========     =========
Basic EPS
   As reported.........................................            ($0.25)        $0.64         $2.24
     Amortization of goodwill..........................                            0.35          0.34
     Amortization of equity method goodwill............                            0.02          0.02
     Amortization of franchise rights..................                            1.14          0.96
                                                              -----------    ----------     ---------
   As adjusted.........................................            ($0.25)        $2.15         $3.56
                                                              ===========    ==========     =========

Diluted EPS
   As reported.........................................            ($0.25)        $0.63         $2.13
     Amortization of goodwill..........................                            0.35          0.32
     Amortization of equity method goodwill............                            0.02          0.02
     Amortization of franchise rights..................                            1.12          0.90
                                                              -----------    ----------     ---------
   As adjusted.........................................            ($0.25)        $2.12         $3.37
                                                              ===========    ==========     =========
</TABLE>


                                     - 63 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


8. LONG-TERM DEBT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            December 31,
                                                                                         2002          2001
                                                                                      ----------    ----------
                                                                                           (in millions)
<S>                                                                                      <C>           <C>
     Notes exchangeable into common stock, due 2003-2007..........................        $5,459        $
     Commercial Paper.............................................................                         397
     Notes payable to banks due in installments through 2009......................         7,767         1,223
     6.20% - 6.95% Senior notes, due 2003-2037....................................         4,267         3,054
     7.08% - 7.95% Senior notes, due 2003-2097....................................         2,832         1,103
     8% - 8-7/8% Senior notes, due 2003-2032......................................         8,710         2,660
     9% - 10-1/8% Senior notes, due 2002 and 2023.................................         3,015           200
     8-1/4% - 10-5/8% Senior subordinated debentures, due 2006-2012................          521           521
     Zero Coupon Convertible Debentures, due 2020.................................            86         1,096
     ZONES at principal amount, due 2029..........................................           699         1,613
     9.04% - 9.65% Trust Preferred Securities, due 2027 and 2038..................           805
     Other, including capital lease obligations...................................           749           335
                                                                                      ----------    ----------
                                                                                          34,910        12,202
     Less current portion.........................................................         3,203           460
     Less short-term debt.........................................................         3,750
                                                                                      ----------    ----------
                                                                                         $27,957       $11,742
                                                                                      ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     Maturities of long-term  debt  outstanding  as of December 31, 2002 for the
     four years after 2003 are as follows (in millions):

                        2004...............................       $6,135
                        2005...............................       $4,454
                        2006...............................       $1,834
                        2007...............................       $1,170

     The Cross-Guarantee Structure
     To simplify the Company's capital structure, effective with the acquisition
     of  Broadband,   the  Company  and  four  of  its  cable  holding   company
     subsidiaries  fully  and  unconditionally   guaranteed  each  other's  debt
     securities (the  "Cross-Guarantee  Structure").  Comcast  Holdings is not a
     guarantor,  and  none of its debt is  guaranteed.  In  connection  with the
     Broadband  acquisition,  the  Company  borrowed  $4 billion  of  short-term
     indebtedness  and $3.2  billion  of  long-term  indebtedness  under the New
     Credit  Facilities  (see below) that is also a part of the  Cross-Guarantee
     Structure.  As of December 31, 2002,  $24.729 billion of the Company's debt
     securities were entitled to the benefits of the Cross-Guarantee  Structure,
     including $3.5 billion of AT&T's debt securities  assumed by the Company in
     the Broadband acquisition (see Notes 5 and 16).

     Comcast MO of Delaware,  Inc.  (formerly,  MediaOne of  Delaware,  Inc. and
     Continental   Cablevision,   Inc.)  was  not   originally  a  part  of  the
     Cross-Guarantee  Structure.  On March 12, 2003,  the Company  announced the
     successful  completion  of a  bondholder  consent  solicitation  related to
     Comcast MO of Delaware,  Inc.'s $1.7 billion aggregate  principal amount in
     debt  securities  to  permit  it to  become  part  of  the  Cross-Guarantee
     Structure.


                                     - 64 -


<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Senior Notes Offerings
     In January and March 2003, the Company sold an aggregate of $3.0 billion of
     public debt consisting of $600 million of 5.85% senior notes due 2010, $900
     million of 6.50% senior notes due 2015,  $750 million of 5.50% senior notes
     due 2011 and $750 million of 7.05% senior notes due 2033.  The Company used
     all of the net  proceeds  from  the  offerings  to repay a  portion  of the
     Company's  short-term debt  outstanding  under the Company's  Bridge Credit
     Facility (see New Credit Facilities below).

     New Credit Facilities
     In May 2002, the Company entered into definitive  credit  agreements with a
     syndicate of lenders for an aggregate of $12.825  billion of financing (the
     "New Credit Facilities") to complete the Broadband acquisition (see Note 5)
     and to  provide  for the  Company's  financing  needs  after the  Broadband
     acquisition.  On  November  18,  2002,  in  connection  with the  Broadband
     acquisition,  the Company  borrowed an aggregate of $7.2 billion  under the
     New Credit  Facilities and canceled $3.0 billion of the $12.825  billion of
     New Credit  Facilities.  Borrowings  consisted  of $4.0 billion of variable
     rate  short-term  debt (the "Bridge  Credit  Facility") and $3.2 billion of
     variable rate debt maturing November 2004.

     Zero Coupon Convertible Debentures
     The  Company's  Zero Coupon  Debentures  have a yield to maturity of 1.25%,
     computed on a semi-annual bond equivalent basis. The Zero Coupon Debentures
     may be  converted,  subject to  certain  restrictions,  into  shares of the
     Company's  Class A Special  common  stock at the  option of the holder at a
     conversion rate of 14.2566 shares per $1,000  principal amount at maturity,
     representing  an initial  conversion  price of $54.67  per share.  The Zero
     Coupon Debentures are senior unsecured obligations.  The Company may redeem
     for  cash,  at  their  accreted  value,  all or  part  of the  Zero  Coupon
     Debentures on or after December 19, 2005.

     Holders may require the Company to repurchase, at their accreted value, the
     Zero Coupon  Debentures  on December 19,  2003,  2005,  2010 and 2015.  The
     Company  may  choose  to  pay  the  repurchase  price  for  2003  and  2005
     repurchases  in cash or shares of its  Class A  Special  common  stock or a
     combination  of cash and shares of its Class A Special  common  stock.  The
     Company may pay the repurchase  price for the 2010 and 2015  repurchases in
     cash only.

     Holders may surrender the Zero Coupon Debentures for conversion at any time
     prior to  maturity if the closing  price of the  Company's  Class A Special
     common stock is greater than 110% of the accreted  conversion  price for at
     least 20 trading  days of the 30 trading days prior to  conversion.  During
     the year ended 2002, the Company  repurchased  from holders an aggregate of
     $1.023  billion  accreted  value of Zero Coupon  Debentures  for cash.  The
     Company  refinanced the  redemption  with  borrowings  under its New Credit
     Facilities.

     Amounts  outstanding  under the Zero Coupon  Debentures  are  classified as
     long-term in the  Company's  consolidated  balance sheet as of December 31,
     2002  and  2001 as the  Company  has both the  ability  and the  intent  to
     refinance  the Zero Coupon  Debentures  on a long-term  basis with  amounts
     available under the Company's credit facilities in the event holders of the
     Zero  Coupon  Debentures  exercise  their  rights to require the Company to
     repurchase the Zero Coupon Debentures in December 2003.

     Notes Exchangeable into Common Stock
     As a result of the Broadband acquisition,  the Company assumed exchangeable
     notes (the  "Exchangeable  Notes") which are mandatorily  redeemable at the
     Company's  option into shares of  Cablevision  Class A common  stock or its
     cash equivalent (the "Cablevision  Exchangeable  Notes"),  Microsoft common
     stock or its cash  equivalent  (the "Microsoft  Exchangeable  Notes"),  (i)
     Vodafone ADRs, (ii) the cash equivalent, or (iii) a combination of cash and
     Vodafone  ADRs (the  "Vodafone  Exchangeable  Notes"),  and Comcast Class A
     Special  common stock or its cash  equivalent  (the  "Comcast  Exchangeable
     Notes"). The maturity value of the Exchangeable Notes varies based upon the
     fair market  value of the  security to which it is indexed.  The  Company's
     Exchangeable  Notes are  collateralized  by the  Company's  investments  in
     Cablevision, Microsoft and Vodafone, respectively, and the Comcast Class A

                                     - 65 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Special  common  stock held in treasury  (see Note 10). As of December  31,
     2002, $3.161 billion of Exchangeable  Notes bear interest at variable rates
     (three-month  LIBOR plus 0.4% to 0.5%) and $2.298  billion of  Exchangeable
     Notes bear  interest  at fixed  rates  ranging  from 4.63% to 7.04%.  As of
     December 31, 2002, the securities held by the Company  collateralizing  the
     Exchangeable   Notes  were  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  debt  obligations
     associated with the outstanding Exchangeable Notes.

     ZONES
     At  maturity,  holders  of the  Company's  2.0%  Exchangeable  Subordinated
     Debentures due 2029 (the "ZONES") are entitled to receive in cash an amount
     equal to the higher of the principal  amount of the ZONES of $1.807 billion
     or the market value of Sprint PCS Stock.  Prior to maturity,  each ZONES is
     exchangeable  at the holder's  option for an amount of cash equal to 95% of
     the market value of Sprint PCS Stock.  As of December 31, 2002,  the number
     of Sprint  PCS  shares  held by the  Company  exceeded  the number of ZONES
     outstanding.

     Prior to the  adoption  of SFAS No. 133 on January  1,  2001,  the  Company
     accounted  for the ZONES as an indexed debt  instrument  since the maturity
     value is dependent upon the fair value of Sprint PCS Stock. Therefore,  the
     carrying value of the ZONES was adjusted each balance sheet date to reflect
     the fair value of the underlying  Sprint PCS Stock with the change included
     in income related to indexed debt in the Company's  consolidated  statement
     of operations.

     Upon  adoption of SFAS No. 133, the Company  split the  accounting  for the
     ZONES into  derivative  and debt  components.  The  Company  also split the
     accounting for the Exchangeable  Notes into derivative and debt components.
     The  Company  records  the  change  in the  fair  value  of the  derivative
     component  of the ZONES  and the  Exchangeable  Notes  (see Note 6) and the
     change in the  carrying  value of the debt  component  of the ZONES and the
     Exchangeable Notes as follows (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Year Ended December 31, 2002
                                                                                                Exchangeable
                                                                                  Zones             Notes
                                                                            --------------     --------------
<S>                                                                             <C>                <C>
Balance at Beginning of Year:
   Debt component..........................................................     $      468          $
   Derivative component....................................................          1,145
                                                                            --------------     --------------
Total......................................................................          1,613

Acquisition of Broadband, debt component...................................                             6,993
Acquisition of Broadband, derivative component.............................                            (1,461)
                                                                            --------------     --------------
Total......................................................................                             5,532

Increase (decrease) in debt component to interest expense..................             23                (12)
Decrease in derivative component to investment income/expense..............           (937)               (61)

Balance at End of Year:
   Debt component..........................................................            491              6,981
   Derivative component....................................................            208             (1,522)
                                                                            --------------     --------------
Total......................................................................           $699          $   5,459
                                                                            ==============     ==============
</TABLE>

     Trust Preferred Securities
     As a result of the  Broadband  acquisition,  the  Company  assumed  certain
     subsidiary trust preferred securities ("Trust Preferred  Securities") which
     are recorded within  long-term debt in the Company's  consolidated  balance
     sheet at December 31, 2002.  AT&T agreed to guarantee  the Trust  Preferred
     Securities  due 2038 through their call date of


                                     - 66 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     October  2003, at which time the Company will either redeem them or provide
     substitute credit support.  The Trust Preferred  Securities are not part of
     the Cross-Guarantee Structure.

     Interest Rates;
     Bank debt interest rates vary based upon one or more of the following rates
     at the option of the Company:

         Prime rate to Prime plus .875%;
         Federal  Funds rate plus .5% to 1.375%; and
         LIBOR plus .14% to 1.875%.

     The weighted  average  interest rate on the Company's  short-term  debt was
     2.53% as of December 31, 2002.  Excluding the  derivative  component of the
     ZONES and  Exchangeable  Notes whose  changes in fair value are recorded to
     investment  income  (expense),  the Company's  effective  weighted  average
     interest  rate on its  total  debt  outstanding  was  5.86% and 6.31% as of
     December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     Interest Rate Risk Management
     The  Company is exposed to the market  risk of adverse  changes in interest
     rates. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures,  the Company's
     policy is to  maintain a mix of fixed and  variable  rate debt and to enter
     into various interest rate derivative transactions as described below.

     Using Swaps, the Company agrees to exchange,  at specified  intervals,  the
     difference  between  fixed and  variable  interest  amounts  calculated  by
     reference to an agreed-upon  notional principal amount. Rate Locks are used
     to hedge the risk that the cash flows  related to the interest  payments on
     an  anticipated  issuance or assumption of fixed rate debt may be adversely
     affected by interest rate fluctuations.  Caps are used to lock in a maximum
     interest  rate  should  variable  rates  rise,  but enable  the  Company to
     otherwise pay lower market rates.  Collars limit the Company's  exposure to
     and benefits  from  interest  rate  fluctuations  on variable  rate debt to
     within a certain range of rates.

     All derivative  transactions must comply with a board-approved  derivatives
     policy.  In  addition to  prohibiting  the use of  derivatives  for trading
     purposes or that increase risk, this policy requires  quarterly  monitoring
     of the portfolio,  including portfolio  valuation,  measuring  counterparty
     exposure and performing sensitivity analyses.

     The following  table  summarizes the terms of the Company's  existing Swaps
     (dollars in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Notional                       Average          Average        Estimated
                                       Amount       Maturities       Pay Rate      Receive Rate      Fair Value
                                    -------------  -------------  --------------  ---------------  --------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>  <C>          <C>             <C>              <C>
     As of December 31, 2002
     -----------------------
     Variable to Fixed Swaps           $1,811        2003-2005         7.5%            1.9%             $64
     Fixed to Variable Swaps            $300           2027            3.7%            9.7%             $41

     As of December 31, 2001
     -----------------------
     Variable to Fixed Swaps            $250         2002-2003         4.9%            2.2%             ($6)
     Fixed to Variable Swaps            $950         2004-2008         3.6%            7.5%             $47
</TABLE>


     The  notional  amounts of interest  rate  instruments,  as presented in the
     above table, are used to measure interest to be paid or received and do not
     represent the amount of exposure to credit loss.  The estimated  fair value
     approximates  the  proceeds  (costs) to settle the  outstanding  contracts.
     While Swaps, Rate Locks, Caps and Collars represent an integral part of the
     Company's interest rate risk management  program,  their incremental effect
     on interest  expense for the years ended  December 31, 2002,  2001 and 2000
     was not significant.


                                     - 67 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)



     In 2002,  the  Company  entered  into Rate Locks to hedge the risk that the
     cash flows related to the interest  payments on an anticipated  issuance or
     assumption  of certain  fixed rate debt in  connection  with the  Broadband
     acquisition may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations. To the
     extent the Rate Locks are effective in offsetting  the  variability  of the
     hedged  cash  flows,  changes  in the fair  value of the Rate Locks are not
     included in earnings but are reported as a component of  accumulated  other
     comprehensive income (loss). Upon the assumption of certain fixed rate debt
     in connection with the Broadband  acquisition,  the value of the Rate Locks
     is being  recognized  as an adjustment  to interest  expense,  similar to a
     deferred financing cost, over the same period in which the related interest
     costs on the debt are recognized in earnings. The unrealized pre-tax losses
     on cash flow hedges as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 of $225 million and $1
     million have been reported in the Company's balance sheet as a component of
     accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss),  net of related  deferred
     income taxes of $79 million and $0.3 million, respectively.

     Estimated Fair Value
     The Company's debt had estimated fair values of $36.827 billion and $12.559
     billion as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.  The estimated fair
     value of the  Company's  publicly  traded  debt is based on  quoted  market
     prices for that debt.  Interest  rates that are currently  available to the
     Company for issuance of debt with similar  terms and  remaining  maturities
     are used to  estimate  fair value for debt issues for which  quoted  market
     prices are not available.

     Debt Covenants
     The Company's and certain of the Company's  subsidiaries'  loan  agreements
     contain financial covenants which require that certain ratios and cash flow
     levels be maintained and contain certain  restrictions on dividend payments
     and advances of funds to the Company. The Company and its subsidiaries were
     in compliance with all financial covenants for all periods presented.

     As of  December  31,  2002,  $37  million  of the  Company's  cash and cash
     equivalents  is  restricted  under   contractual  or  other   arrangements.
     Restricted  net assets of the  Company's  subsidiaries  were  approximately
     $12.597 billion as of December 31, 2002.

     Lines and Letters of Credit
     As of December 31,  2002,  certain  subsidiaries  of the Company had unused
     lines of credit of $5.949 billion under their respective credit facilities.

     As of December 31, 2002,  the Company and certain of its  subsidiaries  had
     unused irrevocable standby letters of credit totaling $370 million to cover
     potential fundings under various agreements.

9.   PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     Following the Broadband acquisition, the Company sponsors two pension plans
     which  together  provide  benefits to  substantially  all former  Broadband
     employees. Future benefits for both plans have been frozen, except for some
     union groups and some  change-in-control  payments. In addition,  following
     the  Broadband  acquisition,  the Company now  sponsors a separate  retiree
     medical plan for a small number of former Broadband employees.



                                     - 68 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The following table shows the components of the net periodic  benefit costs
     for the year ended  December 31, 2002,  which are included in the Company's
     consolidated statement of operations (dollars in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Pension      Postretirement
                                                                                 Benefits         Benefits
                                                                                 ---------    ----------------
<S>                                                                                     <C>              <C>
Service cost-benefits earned during the period.............................             $1               $6
Interest cost on benefit obligations.......................................              3                4
Credit for expected return on plan assets..................................             (1)
                                                                                 ---------    -------------

Net periodic benefit cost..................................................             $3              $10
                                                                                 =========    =============
</TABLE>

     The following table provides a reconciliation  of the changes in the plans'
     benefit  obligations  for the year ended  December  31,  2002  (dollars  in
     millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Pension      Postretirement
                                                                                 Benefits         Benefits
                                                                                 ---------    ----------------
<S>                                                                                 <C>             <C>
Benefit obligation, beginning of year......................................           $                 $50
Acquisition of Broadband...................................................            352              108
Service cost...............................................................              1                6
Interest cost..............................................................              3                4
Plan amendments............................................................                             (17)
Actuarial loss.............................................................                               3
Benefit payments...........................................................             (6)
                                                                                 ---------    -------------

Benefit obligation, end of year............................................           $350             $154
                                                                                 =========    =============
</TABLE>


     The following table provides a reconciliation  of the changes in the plans'
     fair value of assets for the year  ended  December  31,  2002  (dollars  in
     millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Pension      Postretirement
                                                                                 Benefits         Benefits
                                                                                 ---------    ----------------
<S>                                                                                    <C>             <C>
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year...............................            $                $
Acquisition of Broadband...................................................             78                1
Benefit payments...........................................................             (6)
                                                                                 ---------    -------------

Fair value of plan assets, end of year.....................................            $72               $1
                                                                                 =========    =============
</TABLE>


                                     - 69 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The following  table provides a statement of the plans' funded status as of
December 31, 2002 (dollars in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Pension      Postretirement
                                                                                 Benefits         Benefits
                                                                                 ---------    ----------------
<S>                                                                                  <C>              <C>
Unfunded benefit obligation................................................          ($278)           ($153)
Unrecognized net loss (gain)...............................................              1               (9)
Unrecognized prior service cost............................................                             (14)
                                                                                 ---------    -------------

Net amount recorded........................................................          ($277)           ($176)
                                                                                 =========    =============
</TABLE>

     The  following  table  provides  the  amounts  recorded  in  the  Company's
     consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2002 (dollars in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Pension      Postretirement
                                                                                 Benefits         Benefits
                                                                                 ---------    ----------------
<S>                                                                                  <C>              <C>
Benefit obligation.........................................................          ($277)           ($176)
Benefit related liabilities................................................             (1)
Accumulated other comprehensive income.....................................              1
                                                                                 ---------    -------------

Net amount recorded........................................................          ($277)           ($176)
                                                                                 =========    =============
</TABLE>

     The  weighted-average  assumptions in the following  table were used in the
     measurement of the pension and postretirement  benefit  obligations and the
     net periodic benefit costs as applicable as of December 31, 2002:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Pension      Postretirement
                                                                                 Benefits         Benefits
                                                                                 ---------    ----------------
<S>                                                                                   <C>              <C>
Discount rate..............................................................           6.50%            6.75%
Expected return on plan assets.............................................           7.00%            5.00%
</TABLE>

     An 11%  rate of  increase  in the per  capita  cost of  covered  healthcare
     benefits  (the  healthcare  cost  trend  rate) was  assumed.  This rate was
     assumed  to  decline  gradually  after 2002 to 5% by the year 2014 and then
     remain level. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect
     on the amounts  reported for the healthcare  plans. A one percentage  point
     increase  or  decrease  in the  assumed  healthcare  cost  trend rate would
     increase  or  decrease  the   healthcare   component  of  the   accumulated
     postretirement  benefit  obligation  by $6-7  million  but would not have a
     material impact on the service and interest cost components of net periodic
     postretirement healthcare benefit costs.

10. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     Preferred Stock
     The Company is authorized to issue, in one or more series,  up to a maximum
     of 20 million shares of preferred stock. The shares can be issued with such
     designations,   preferences,   qualifications,   privileges,   limitations,
     restrictions,  options,  conversion  rights  and other  special  or related
     rights as the Company's  board of directors  shall from time to time fix by
     resolution.

     The  Company's  Series B  Preferred  Stock had a 5.25%  pay-in-kind  annual
     dividend.  Dividends were paid quarterly through the issuance of additional
     shares of Series B  Preferred  Stock  (the  "Additional  Shares")  and were

                                     - 70 -


<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)



     cumulative  from the issuance date (except that dividends on the Additional
     Shares  accrued  from the date such  Additional  Shares were  issued).  The
     Series B Preferred Stock, including the Additional Shares, was convertible,
     at the option of the holder,  into  approximately  43 million shares of the
     Company's  Class A Special  common stock,  subject to adjustment in certain
     limited circumstances,  which equaled an initial conversion price of $11.77
     per share,  increasing as a result of the  Additional  Shares to $16.96 per
     share on June 30,  2004.  The  Series B  Preferred  Stock  was  mandatorily
     redeemable on June 30, 2017, or, at the option of the Company  beginning on
     June 30,  2004 or at the option of the  holder on June 30,  2004 or on June
     30, 2012. Upon  redemption,  the Company,  at its option,  could redeem the
     Series B  Preferred  Stock with  cash,  Class A Special  common  stock or a
     combination thereof. The Series B Preferred Stock was generally non-voting.
     In December 2000, the Company issued  approximately  38.3 million shares of
     its Class A Special  common  stock to the  holder  in  connection  with the
     holder's  election to convert $533 million at redemption  value of Series B
     Preferred  Stock.  In March 2001,  the  Company  issued  approximately  4.2
     million  shares  of its  Class A  Special  common  stock to the  holder  in
     connection with the holder's  election to convert the remaining $60 million
     at redemption value of Series B Preferred Stock.

     Common Stock
     The Company's Class A Special Common Stock is generally nonvoting.  Holders
     of the Company's  Class A common stock in the aggregate hold 66 2/3% of the
     aggregate voting power of the Company's  capital stock. The number of votes
     that each  share of the  Company's  Class A common  stock  will have at any
     given time will depend on the number of shares of Class A common  stock and
     Class B common stock then outstanding.  Each share of the Company's Class B
     common  stock is  entitled  to fifteen  votes and all shares of the Class B
     common  stock in the  aggregate  have 33 1/3% of the voting power of all of
     the Company's common stock. The 33 1/3% aggregate voting power of the Class
     B common  stock will not be diluted by  additional  issuances  of any other
     class  of  the  Company's  common  stock.  The  Class  B  common  stock  is
     convertible, share for share, into Class A or Class A Special common stock,
     subject to certain restrictions.

     Treasury Stock
     Certain  Broadband  subsidiaries held AT&T preferred stock convertible into
     AT&T common stock. Prior to the closing of the Broadband acquisition, these
     subsidiaries  converted  the AT&T  preferred  stock into AT&T common stock.
     Upon closing of the Broadband  acquisition,  the shares of Broadband common
     stock  were  exchanged  for  approximately  243.6  million  shares  of  the
     Company's Class A common stock. The Company classified these shares,  which
     are held by certain  subsidiaries of the Company,  as treasury stock within
     stockholders' equity. The shares were valued at $6.391 billion based on the
     closing  share price of the Comcast  Class A common stock as of the closing
     date of the Broadband  acquisition  and will continue to be carried at this
     amount.  The shares are deemed issued but not  outstanding  and will not be
     included in the computation of Diluted EPS.

     Prior to the  Broadband  acquisition,  Broadband  held  approximately  47.3
     million  shares  of the  Company's  Class  A  Special  common  stock  which
     collateralize  the related  Comcast  Exchangeable  Notes (see Note 8). Upon
     closing of the Broadband acquisition,  the Company classified these shares,
     which are held by a  subsidiary  of the Company,  as treasury  stock within
     stockholders'  equity.  The shares were valued  based on the closing  share
     price of the Comcast Class A Special common stock as of the closing date of
     the Broadband  acquisition  and will continue to be carried at this amount.
     The shares  are deemed  issued but not  outstanding  and  because  they are
     related  to  the  Comcast  Exchangeable  Notes  will  be  included  in  the
     computation of Diluted EPS in periods in which the Company has income.

     Board-Authorized Repurchase Programs
     The  following  table  summarizes  the Company's  repurchases  and sales of
     Comcast Put Options under its Board-  authorized share repurchase  programs
     (shares and dollars in millions):


                                     - 71 -


<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                               2001        2000
                                                                             ---------   ---------
<S>                                                                                  <C>         <C>
Shares repurchased........................................................           1           9
Aggregate consideration...................................................         $27        $325
Comcast Put Options sold..................................................                       2
</TABLE>

     As part of the Company's Board-authorized  repurchase programs, the Company
     sold Comcast Put Options on shares of its Class A Special common stock. The
     Comcast  Put  Options  give the holder the right to require  the Company to
     repurchase such shares at specified  prices on specific dates.  All Comcast
     Put Options sold expired  unexercised.  The Company reclassified the amount
     it would  have been  obligated  to pay to  repurchase  such  shares had the
     Comcast  Put Options  been  exercised,  from  common  equity put options to
     additional capital upon expiration of the Comcast Put Options.

     The following  table  summarizes the Company's share activity for the three
     years ended December 31, 2002:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  Common Stock
                                                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                                   Series B
                                                   Preferred                          Class A
                                                     Stock           Class A          Special        Class B
                                                  ------------   ----------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>           <C>              <C>
     Balance, January 1, 2000...................       569,640         25,993,380    716,442,482      9,444,375

     Acquisitions...............................                                     155,702,851
     Stock compensation plans...................                             (330)     2,599,151
     Retirement of common stock.................                       (3,106,500)    (6,006,800)
     Conversion of Series B Preferred...........      (533,685)                       38,278,558
     Series B preferred dividends...............        23,495
     Share exchange.............................                       (1,054,300)       998,950
                                                  ------------   ----------------  -------------  -------------

     Balance, December 31, 2000.................        59,450         21,832,250    908,015,192      9,444,375

     Stock compensation plans...................                           (2,828)     2,515,538
     Retirement of common stock.................                                        (808,000)
     Conversion of Series B Preferred...........       (59,450)                        4,208,824
                                                  ------------   ----------------  -------------  -------------

     Balance, December 31, 2001.................                       21,829,422    913,931,554      9,444,375

     Acquisitions...............................                    1,577,117,883     14,376,283
     Shares classified as treasury stock........                     (243,640,500)   (47,289,843)
     Stock compensation plans...................                           66,843      1,861,961
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan...............                                         463,635
                                                  ------------   ----------------  -------------  -------------

     Balance, December 31, 2002.................                    1,355,373,648    883,343,590      9,444,375
                                                  ============   ================  =============  =============
</TABLE>

    Stock-Based Compensation Plans
    As of December  31,  2002,  the Company and its  subsidiaries  have  several
    stock-based  compensation plans for certain employees,  officers,  directors
    and other persons  designated by the applicable  compensation  committees of
    the boards of directors of the Company and its subsidiaries. These plans are
    described below.

                                     - 72 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


    Comcast Option Plans.  The Company  maintains stock option plans for certain
    employees,  directors  and other persons under which fixed stock options are
    granted and the option price is generally  not less than the fair value of a
    share  of the  underlying  stock at the  date of  grant  (collectively,  the
    "Comcast  Option  Plans").  Under the Comcast  Option  Plans,  138.9 million
    shares  of Class A and  Class A  Special  common  stock  were  reserved  for
    issuance upon the exercise of options,  including  those  outstanding  as of
    December 31, 2002.  Option  terms are  generally  from five to 10 1/2 years,
    with options generally becoming exercisable between two and 9 1/2 years from
    the date of grant.

    The  following  table  summarizes  the activity of the Comcast  Option Plans
(options in thousands):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           2002                     2001                       2000
                                    ------------------      ---------------------     -----------------------
                                             Weighted-                   Weighted-                 Weighted-
                                              Average                     Average                   Average
                                             Exercise                    Exercise                  Exercise
                                    Options    Price         Options       Price       Options       Price
                                    ------- -----------     ---------   -----------   ---------   -----------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>            <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>
Class A Common Stock
Outstanding at beginning of year...
Options exchanged for
   outstanding Broadband
   options in connection with
   acquisition.....................  61,094     $44.17
Granted............................   2,762      24.85
Exercised..........................     (43)     17.79
Canceled...........................    (238)     55.19
                                     ------
Outstanding at end of year.........  63,575      43.31
                                     ======
Exercisable at end of year.........  58,135      44.91
                                     ======

Class A Special Common Stock
Outstanding at beginning of year...  55,521     $26.89         49,618      $23.69        40,416       $16.01
Granted............................  13,857      32.29         10,084       37.52        15,300        39.43
Exercised..........................  (2,347)      8.83         (3,360)      10.62        (4,805)        8.60
Canceled...........................  (2,141)     30.38           (821)      30.69        (1,293)       25.98
                                     ------                    ------                    ------
Outstanding at end of year.........  64,890      28.57         55,521       26.89        49,618        23.69
                                     ======                    ======                    ======
Exercisable at end of year.........  22,798      21.08         16,892       15.57        13,267        11.35
                                     ======                    ======                    ======
</TABLE>



                                     - 73 -


<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


   The following  table  summarizes  information  about the options  outstanding
   under  the  Comcast  Option  Plans  as  of  December  31,  2002  (options  in
   thousands):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     Options Outstanding                 Options Exercisable
                                          ------------------------------------------  -------------------------
                                                            Weighted-
                                                            Average       Weighted-                 Weighted-
     Range of                                Number        Remaining       Average      Number       Average
     Exercise                              Outstanding    Contractual     Exercise    Exercisable    Exercise
     Prices                                at 12/31/02       Life           Price     at 12/31/02     Price
     -------------------                  ------------- ---------------  -----------  -----------  ------------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>              <C>          <C>          <C>
     Class A Common Stock
     $3.89 - $15.21                             2,291        3.3 years        $9.59        2,291        $9.59
     $16.11 - $27.74                           10,377        8.1 years        24.98        4,975        23.69
     $27.76 - $33.73                           13,574        6.9 years        32.36       13,549        32.36
     $33.74 - $45.07                           13,852        3.9 years        38.37       13,839        38.37
     $45.08 - $60.89                           13,967        5.6 years        54.64       13,967        54.64
     $60.90 - $89.85                            9,514        5.5 years        77.59        9,514        77.59
                                           ----------                                 ----------
                                               63,575                                     58,135
                                           ==========                                 ==========

     Class A Special Common Stock
     $6.00 - $15.66                            10,963        2.9 years        $9.97        8,751        $9.96
     $16.94 - $25.58                           13,431        6.5 years        18.39        6,367        17.03
     $27.04 - $35.49                           16,968        8.1 years        34.13        3,241        32.15
     $35.53 - $45.94                           22,042        7.8 years        38.26        3,810        39.13
     $46.00 - $53.13                            1,486        6.9 years        50.53          629        50.40
                                           ----------                                 ----------
                                               64,890                                     22,798
                                           ==========                                 ==========

</TABLE>


                                     - 74 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Subsidiary  Option Plans.  Certain of the Company's  subsidiaries  maintain
     combination   stock   option/stock   appreciation   rights   ("SAR")  plans
     (collectively,  the "Tandem Plans") for employees,  officers, directors and
     other  designated  persons.  Under the Tandem  Plans,  the option  price is
     generally not less than the fair value,  as  determined  by an  independent
     appraisal,  of a share of the underlying common stock at the date of grant.
     If the eligible participant elects the SAR feature of the Tandem Plans, the
     participant  receives 75% of the excess of the fair value of a share of the
     underlying  common stock over the exercise  price of the option to which it
     is  attached  at the  exercise  date.  The  holders  of a  majority  of the
     outstanding  options  have  stated an  intention  not to  exercise  the SAR
     feature of the Tandem Plans.  Because the exercise of the option  component
     is more likely than the exercise of the SAR feature,  compensation  expense
     is measured  based on the stock option  component.  Under the Tandem Plans,
     option/SAR  terms are ten years from the date of grant,  with  options/SARs
     generally  becoming  exercisable  over four to five  years from the date of
     grant.

     The QVC  Tandem  Plan is the most  significant  of the  Tandem  Plans.  The
     following  table  summarizes  information  related to the QVC  Tandem  Plan
     (options/SARs in thousands):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             At December 31,
                                                                   2002            2001           2000
                                                                -----------     ----------     -----------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>             <C>
Options/SARs outstanding at end
   of year......................................................        240            253             219
                                                                ===========     ==========     ===========

Weighted-average exercise price of
   options/SARs outstanding
   at end of year...............................................  $1,086.37        $913.88         $789.51
                                                                ===========     ==========     ===========

Options/SARs exercisable at end
   of year......................................................        115            113              79
                                                                ===========     ==========     ===========

Weighted-average exercise price
   of options/SARs exercisable
   at end of year...............................................    $839.59        $706.51         $606.92
                                                                ===========     ==========     ===========
</TABLE>


     As of the latest  valuation  date,  the fair value of a share of QVC Common
     Stock was $1,768.15.

     Other Stock-Based Compensation Plans
     The  Company  maintains  a  restricted  stock plan under  which  management
     employees may be granted  restricted  share awards in the Company's Class A
     or Class A Special common stock (the  "Restricted  Stock Plan").  The share
     awards vest annually, generally over a period not to exceed five years from
     the date of the award, and do not have voting rights. At December 31, 2002,
     there were  150,000  shares of Class A common  stock and 763,000  shares of
     Comcast Class A Special common stock issuable in connection with restricted
     share  awards  under the  Restricted  Stock Plan,  of which zero shares and
     166,000 shares were issued in January 2003, respectively.

     The Company  maintains a deferred stock option plan for certain  employees,
     officers and directors which provides the optionees with the opportunity to
     defer the  receipt  of shares of the  Company's  Class A or Class A Special
     common stock which would  otherwise  be  deliverable  upon  exercise by the
     optionees of their stock  options.  As of December  31,  2002,  6.1 million
     shares  of  Class A  Special  common  stock  were  issuable  under  options
     exercised  but  the  receipt  of  which  was  irrevocably  deferred  by the
     optionees pursuant to the Company's deferred stock option plan.

                                     - 75 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     Certain of the Company's subsidiaries have SAR plans for certain employees,
     officers,  directors  and other  persons (the "SAR  Plans").  Under the SAR
     Plans,  eligible  participants are entitled to receive a cash payment equal
     to  100% of the  excess,  if  any,  of the  fair  value  of a share  of the
     underlying  common stock at the exercise date over the fair value of such a
     share at the grant date. The SARs have a term of ten years from the date of
     grant  and  become  exercisable  over four to five  years  from the date of
     grant.

     The  following  table  summarizes  information  related  to  the  Company's
     Restricted Stock Plan and SAR Plans:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                                2002           2001           2000
                                                              ---------      ---------       -------

<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
Restricted Stock Plan
Shares granted (in thousands)...............................         61            157           504
Weighted-average fair value per share at date of grant......     $28.47         $39.52        $37.80
Compensation expense (in millions)..........................         $8             $9            $9

SAR Plans
Compensation expense (in millions)..........................         $3             $4            $2
</TABLE>

11.  INCOME TAXES

     The  Company   joins  with  its  80%  or  more  owned   subsidiaries   (the
     "Consolidated  Group") in filing  consolidated  federal income tax returns.
     QVC and E! Entertainment each file separate consolidated federal income tax
     returns.  Income tax  expense  consists  of the  following  components  (in
     millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                                         2002           2001           2000
                                                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
<S>                                                                         <C>            <C>            <C>
     Current expense
     Federal.........................................................       $168           $622           $309
     State...........................................................         61             85             43
     Foreign.........................................................          5              3              2
                                                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
                                                                             234            710            354
                                                                       ---------      ---------      ---------

     Deferred expense (benefit)
     Federal.........................................................        (93)          (255)           999
     State...........................................................         (6)            15             76
     Foreign.........................................................         (1)
                                                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
                                                                            (100)          (240)         1,075
                                                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
     Income tax expense..............................................       $134           $470         $1,429
                                                                       =========      =========      =========
</TABLE>


                                     - 76 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The  Company's  effective  income tax expense  differs  from the  statutory
     amount because of the effect of the following items (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                                         2002           2001            2000
                                                                       ---------      ---------      ----------
<S>                                                                          <C>           <C>           <C>
     Federal tax at statutory rate...................................        $25           $299          $1,248
     Non-deductible depreciation and amortization....................                       107             102
     State income taxes, net of federal benefit......................         36             65              77
     Foreign losses and equity in net losses of affiliates...........         14              7               8
     Increase in valuation allowance.................................         12
     Adjustment to prior year accrual................................         45
     Other...........................................................          2             (8)             (6)
                                                                       ---------      ---------      ----------

     Income tax expense..............................................       $134           $470          $1,429
                                                                       =========      =========      ==========
</TABLE>

     The  Company's  net  deferred  tax  liability  consists  of  the  following
components (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              December 31,
                                                                         2002             2001
                                                                       ---------        ---------
<S>                                                                         <C>              <C>
     Deferred tax assets:
        Net operating loss carryforwards.............................       $530             $243
        Allowances for doubtful accounts and excess
           and obsolete inventory....................................        105              109
        Differences between book and tax basis of long-term debt.....        424
        Non- deductible accruals and other...........................      1,866              167
        Less: Valuation allowance....................................        (12)
                                                                       ---------        ---------
                                                                           2,913              519
                                                                       ---------        ---------

     Deferred tax liabilities:
        Temporary differences, principally book and tax basis
          of property and equipment and intangible assets............    $20,552            6,329
        Differences between book and tax basis
          of investments.............................................      6,038              645
        Differences between book and tax basis of
          indexed debt securities....................................        409              196
                                                                       ---------        ---------
                                                                          26,999            7,170
                                                                       ---------        ---------
     Net deferred tax liability......................................    $24,086           $6,651
                                                                       =========        =========
</TABLE>

     The Company  recorded $17.541 billion of deferred income tax liabilities in
     2002 in connection with the Broadband  acquisition,  principally related to
     basis  differences  in  investments,  property and equipment and intangible
     assets.  Changes in estimates as it relates to  Broadband's  preacquisition
     tax  liabilities  will be  adjusted  through an  increase  or  decrease  in
     goodwill  attributable to the acquisition.  The Company recorded a decrease
     of ($221) million,  ($149) million and ($3.055)  billion to deferred income
     tax  liabilities in 2002, 2001 and 2000,  respectively,  in connection with
     unrealized  losses on  marketable  securities  which are  included in other
     comprehensive  income (loss). The Company recorded $207 million of deferred
     income tax liabilities in 2001 in connection with the cumulative  effect of
     accounting change related to the adoption of SFAS No. 133 (see Note 2).


                                     - 77 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     The Company has recorded net deferred tax  liabilities  of $976 million and
     $275 million,  as of December 31, 2002 and 2001,  respectively,  which have
     been  included  in  current  liabilities,   related  primarily  to  current
     investments.  The Company has federal net operating loss  carryforwards  of
     approximately   $950  million  and  various   state  net   operating   loss
     carryforwards, which expire in periods through 2022.

12.  STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS - SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

     The  following  table   summarizes  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  and
     liabilities  associated  with  acquisitions  by the Company through noncash
     transactions (see Note 5) (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                                         2002           2001            2000
                                                                       ---------     ----------      ----------
<S>                                                                       <C>               <C>            <C>
     Current assets.................................................      $1,533            $57            $216
     Investments....................................................      17,325                            437
     Property and equipment.........................................      11,757            580           1,296
     Intangible assets..............................................      46,510          3,043          15,400
     Other noncurrent assets........................................         300
     Current liabilities............................................      (4,694)           (37)           (277)
     Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt..........      (8,049)
     Long-term debt.................................................     (16,811)                        (2,147)
     Deferred income taxes..........................................     (17,541)           (77)         (3,308)
     Other noncurrent liabilities and minority interest.............      (5,831)
     Comcast shares held by Broadband...............................       1,126
                                                                       ---------     ----------      ----------
          Net assets acquired.......................................     $25,625         $3,566         $11,617
                                                                       =========     ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

     The following table summarizes the Company's cash payments for interest and
income taxes (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                                                2002      2001        2000
                                                                              --------  --------    --------
<S>                                                                               <C>       <C>         <C>
Interest.................................................................         $803      $660        $706
Income taxes.............................................................         $288      $561        $709
</TABLE>

13.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Commitments
     The Company's programming networks have entered into license agreements for
     programs  and  sporting   events  which  will  be  available  for  telecast
     subsequent to December 31, 2002. In addition, the Company, through Comcast-
     Spectacor,  has employment  agreements with both players and coaches of its
     professional sports teams.  Certain of these employment  agreements,  which
     provide for payments that are guaranteed  regardless of employee  injury or
     termination,  are covered by disability insurance if certain conditions are
     met.

     Following the Broadband  acquisition,  certain  subsidiaries of the Company
     support debt  compliance  with respect to  obligations  aggregating  $1.461
     billion as of December 31, 2002 of certain  cable  television  partnerships
     which the Company  accounts  for under the equity  method (see Note 6). The
     obligations expire between May 2008 and May 2009.  Although there can be no
     assurance,  management  believes  that it will not be  required to meet its
     obligations under such guarantees.  The total notional amount of guarantees
     for the Company was $1.461  billion as of December 31, 2002,  at which time
     there were no quoted market prices for similar agreements.

     The following  table  summarizes the Company's  minimum annual  programming
     commitments  under  network  launch and  program  license  agreements,  the
     Company's future commitments under long-term professional sports contracts,

                                     - 78 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)



     and the  Company's  minimum  annual  rental  commitments  for office space,
     equipment and transponder service agreements under noncancellable operating
     and capital leases as of December 31, 2002 (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Professional
                                           Programming        Sports      Operating
                                            Agreements       Contracts      Leases      Total
                                          --------------   -------------  ----------  ----------
<S>                                            <C>              <C>           <C>         <C>
         2003...........................         $104             $126          $248        $478
         2004...........................           98              113           201         412
         2005...........................           97               84           153         334
         2006...........................          101               50           120         271
         2007...........................           83               24           100         207
         Thereafter.....................          485                8           298         791
</TABLE>

     The following  table  summarizes the Company's  rental  expense  charged to
operations (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                                                2002      2001        2000
                                                                              --------  --------    --------
<S>                                                                             <C>       <C>         <C>
Rental expense.............................................................     $172      $121        $98
</TABLE>

     Contingencies
     On March 3, 2003,  the Company  announced  that Liberty  Media  Corporation
     ("Liberty")  delivered  a  notice  to  it,  pursuant  to  the  stockholders
     agreement  between the Company and  Liberty,  that  triggers an exit rights
     process  with  respect to  Liberty's  approximate  42% interest in QVC. The
     Company and Liberty will attempt to negotiate  the fair market value of QVC
     prior to March 31,  2003.  If the  Company  and Liberty  cannot  agree,  an
     appraisal  process will  determine  the value of QVC. The Company will then
     have the right to  purchase  Liberty's  interest  in QVC at the  determined
     value.  The  Company  may pay  Liberty  for the QVC  stock  in  cash,  in a
     promissory note maturing not more than three years after  issuance,  in its
     equity securities or in a combination of these,  subject to Liberty's right
     to request payment in all equity securities and the parties'  obligation to
     use reasonable efforts to consummate the purchase in the most tax efficient
     method  available  (provided  that the  Company  is not  required  to issue
     securities representing more than 4.9% of the outstanding equity or vote of
     the  Company's  common  stock).  If the  Company  elects  not  to  purchase
     Liberty's  interest  in QVC,  Liberty  then will  have a  similar  right to
     purchase  the  Company's  approximate  57%  interest in QVC. If neither the
     Company nor Liberty  elect to purchase the interest of the other,  then the
     Company  and Liberty  are  required to use their best  efforts to sell QVC;
     either company is permitted to be a purchaser in any such sale. The Company
     and  Liberty may agree not to enter into a  transaction,  or may agree to a
     transaction other than that specified in the stockholders agreement.  Under
     the current  terms of the  stockholders  agreement  between the Company and
     Liberty,  the  Company  would no longer  control  QVC if it  elects  not to
     purchase Liberty's interest in QVC.

     The Company and the minority owner group in Comcast Spectacor each have the
     right to initiate an "exit"  process  under which the fair market  value of
     Comcast  Spectacor  would  be  determined  by  appraisal.   Following  such
     determination,  the Company  would have the option to acquire the interests
     in  Comcast  Spectacor  owned  by the  minority  owner  group  based on the
     appraised  fair market  value.  In the event the Company  does not exercise
     this  option,  the  Company  and the  minority  owner  group  would then be
     required to use their best  efforts to sell  Comcast  Spectacor.  This exit
     process includes the minority owner group's interest in CSN.

     The Company holds the majority of its interest in E! Entertainment  through
     Comcast Entertainment  Holdings, LLC ("Entertainment  Holdings"),  which is
     owned 50.1% by the Company and 49.9% by The Walt Disney Company ("Disney").
     Under a limited liability company agreement between the Company and Disney,
     the Company  controls  E!  Entertainment's  operations.  As a result of the
     Broadband  acquisition  and  in  certain  other  circumstances,  under  the
     agreement  Disney is entitled to trigger a potential  exit process in which
     Entertainment  Holdings  would have


                                     - 79 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


     the right to purchase Disney's entire interest in Entertainment Holdings at
     its then fair market  value (as  determined  by an appraisal  process).  If
     Disney   exercises  this  right  within  a  specified   time  period,   and
     Entertainment  Holdings elects not to purchase  Disney's  interest,  Disney
     then has the right to purchase,  at appraised fair market value, either the
     Company's entire interest in Entertainment Holdings or all of the shares of
     stock of E! Entertainment held by Entertainment Holdings. In the event that
     Disney exercises its right and neither Disney's nor the Company's  interest
     is  purchased,  Entertainment  Holdings  will continue to be owned as it is
     today, as if the exit process had not been triggered.

     Litigation  has been  filed  against  the  Company  as a result of  alleged
     conduct of the Company with respect to its  investment in and  distribution
     relationship with At Home Corporation. At Home was a provider of high-speed
     Internet access and content services which filed for bankruptcy  protection
     in September 2001. Filed actions are: (i) class action lawsuits against the
     Company,  Brian L. Roberts (the  Company's  President  and Chief  Executive
     Officer and a director),  AT&T (the former  controlling  shareholder  of At
     Home  and also a  former  distributor  of the At Home  service)  and  other
     corporate  and  individual  defendants  in the Superior  Court of San Mateo
     County, California,  alleging breaches of fiduciary duty on the part of the
     Company and the other defendants in connection with transactions  agreed to
     in March 2000 among At Home, the Company, AT&T and Cox Communications, Inc.
     (Cox is also an investor in At Home and a former distributor of the At Home
     service);  (ii) class action lawsuits against Comcast Cable Communications,
     Inc.,  AT&T and others in the United States District Court for the Southern
     District of New York,  alleging  securities  law  violations and common law
     fraud in connection with  disclosures  made by At Home in 2001; and (iii) a
     lawsuit  brought in the United  States  District  Court for the District of
     Delaware in the name of At Home by certain At Home bondholders  against the
     Company,  Brian L. Roberts, Cox and others,  alleging breaches of fiduciary
     duty  relating  to the March 2000  transactions  and  seeking  recovery  of
     alleged  short- swing profits of at least $600 million  pursuant to Section
     16(b) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934  purported to have arisen in
     connection  with certain  transactions  relating to At Home stock  effected
     pursuant to the March 2000  agreements.  The  actions in San Mateo  County,
     California have been stayed by the United States  Bankruptcy  Court for the
     Northern  District  of  California,  the  court in which At Home  filed for
     bankruptcy,  as violating  the automatic  bankruptcy  stay. In the Southern
     District of New York actions,  the court  ordered the actions  consolidated
     into a single action.  An amended  consolidated  class action complaint was
     filed on November 8, 2002. All of the defendants  served motions to dismiss
     on February 11, 2003.

     Under the terms of the Broadband acquisition,  the Company is contractually
     liable for 50% of any  liabilities  of AT&T relating to At Home,  including
     any  resulting  from any  pending or  threatened  litigation.  AT&T will be
     liable for the other 50% of these  liabilities.  In addition to the actions
     against AT&T described above, where the Company is also a defendant,  there
     are two additional  actions brought by At Home's  bondholders'  liquidating
     trust  against  AT&T,  not naming the Company:  (i) a lawsuit filed against
     AT&T and certain of its senior  officers in Santa Clara,  California  state
     court alleging various breaches of fiduciary  duties,  misappropriation  of
     trade  secrets  and  other  causes  of  action  in   connection   with  the
     transactions  in March  2000  described  above,  and prior  and  subsequent
     alleged  conduct on the part of the  defendants,  and (ii) an action  filed
     against AT&T in the District Court for the Northern District of California,
     alleging  that AT&T  infringes  an At Home  patent  by using its  broadband
     distribution and high-speed Internet backbone networks and equipment.  AT&T
     moved to dismiss the Santa Clara action on the grounds that  California  is
     an inconvenient  forum, but the court denied AT&T's motion. AT&T also moved
     to transfer  the  Northern  District of  California  action to the Southern
     District of New York as being a more  convenient  venue.  AT&T's  motion is
     pending.

     The Company denies any wrongdoing in connection  with the claims which have
     been made  directly  against the  Company,  its  subsidiaries  and Brian L.
     Roberts,  and  intends  to  defend  all  of  these  claims  vigorously.  In
     management's opinion, the final disposition of these claims is not expected
     to have a material adverse effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial
     position,  but could  possibly be material  to the  Company's  consolidated
     results of operations of any one period. Further, no assurance can be given
     that  any  adverse  outcome  would  not be  material  to such  consolidated
     financial position.

                                     - 80 -


<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)




     Management  is  continuing  to evaluate  this  litigation  and is unable to
     currently  determine  what impact,  if any, that the Company's 50% share of
     the  AT&T  At  Home  potential  liabilities  would  have  on the  Company's
     consolidated financial position or results of operations.  No assurance can
     be given that any adverse outcome would not be material.

     Some  of the  entities  formerly  attributed  to  Broadband  which  are now
     subsidiaries  of the Company are parties to an affiliation  term sheet with
     Starz Encore Group LLC, an affiliate of Liberty  Media  Corporation,  which
     extends to 2022.  The term sheet  requires  annual  fixed  price  payments,
     subject to adjustment for various factors,  including  inflation.  The term
     sheet  also  requires  the  Company  to pay  two-thirds  of Starz  Encore's
     programming  costs  above  levels  designated  in the  term  sheet.  Excess
     programming  costs that may be payable by the  Company in future  years are
     not presently estimable, and could be significant.

     By letter dated May 29, 2001,  Broadband disputed the enforceability of the
     excess programming  pass-through  provisions of the Starz Encore term sheet
     and  questioned  the validity of the term sheet as a whole.  Broadband also
     has raised certain issues  concerning the  uncertainty of the provisions of
     the term  sheet  and the  contractual  interpretation  and  application  of
     certain of its  provisions  to, among other  things,  the  acquisition  and
     disposition of cable systems. In July 2001, Starz Encore filed a lawsuit in
     Colorado state court seeking payment of the 2001 excess  programming  costs
     and a  declaration  that  the  term  sheet  is a  binding  and  enforceable
     contract.  In October 2001,  Broadband and Starz Encore agreed to delay any
     further  proceedings in the  litigation  until August 31, 2002 to allow the
     parties  time  to  continue   negotiations   toward  a  potential  business
     resolution of this dispute. As part of this standstill agreement, Broadband
     and  Starz  Encore  settled  Starz  Encore's  claim  for  the  2001  excess
     programming  costs,  and Broadband  agreed to continue to make the standard
     monthly  payments  due under the term  sheet,  with a full  reservation  of
     rights with respect to these  payments.  In connection  with the standstill
     agreement,  the court granted a stay on October 30, 2001.  The terms of the
     stay order  allowed  either  party to  petition  the court to lift the stay
     after  April 30, 2002 and to proceed  with the  litigation.  Broadband  and
     Starz Encore  agreed to extend the  standstill  agreement to and  including
     January 31, 2003,  with a requirement  that the parties  attempt to mediate
     the dispute. A mediation session held in January 2003 did not result in any
     resolution of the matter.

     On November 18, 2002,  the Company and Comcast  Holdings filed suit against
     Starz Encore in the United States  District Court for the Eastern  District
     of  Pennsylvania.  The  Company  and Comcast  Holdings  seek a  declaratory
     judgment  that,  pursuant to their rights  under a March 17, 1999  contract
     with a predecessor  of Starz Encore,  upon the  completion of the Broadband
     acquisition  that  contract now provides the terms under which Starz Encore
     programming is acquired and transmitted by the Company's cable systems.  On
     January 8, 2003,  Starz Encore filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit on the
     grounds  that claims  asserted by the Company and Comcast  Holdings  raised
     issues of state law that the United States District Court should decline to
     decide. The Company has responded contesting these assertions.  That motion
     has been submitted to the Court for decision.

     On January 31, 2003, Starz Encore filed an amended complaint in its lawsuit
     against  Broadband in Colorado state court. The amended  complaint adds the
     Company and Comcast  Holdings as defendants and adds new claims against the
     Company,  Comcast Holdings and Broadband asserting alleged breaches of, and
     interference  with, the standstill  agreement relating to the lawsuit filed
     by  the  Company  and  Comcast   Holdings  in  federal  District  Court  in
     Pennsylvania  and to the defendants'  position that since the completion of
     the  Broadband  acquisition,  the March 17, 1999  contract now provides the
     terms under which Starz Encore  programming is acquired and  transmitted by
     the Company's cable systems.

     On March 3, 2003,  Starz  Encore  filed a motion for leave to file a second
     amended  complaint that would add  allegations  that Broadband has breached
     certain  joint-marketing  obligations  under  the term  sheet  and that the
     Company  and  Comcast  Holdings  have  breached   certain   joint-marketing
     obligations  under the March 17, 1999  contract and other  agreements.  The
     Company,  Comcast  Holdings and Broadband  intend to oppose Starz  Encore's
     motion for leave to file a second amended  complaint and, in light of Starz
     Encore's  pending  motion for leave to amend,  have sought an  extension of
     time from the Court to respond to Starz Encore's amended complaint.



                                     - 81 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)



     An entity  formerly  attributed to Broadband,  which is now a subsidiary of
     the  Company,  is party to a master  agreement  that may not  expire  until
     December 31, 2012,  under which it purchases  certain billing services from
     CSG Systems,  Inc. The master agreement requires monthly payments,  subject
     to adjustment  for  inflation.  The master  agreement  also contains a most
     favored nation provision that may affect the amounts paid thereunder.

     On May 10,  2002,  Broadband  filed a demand for  arbitration  against  CSG
     before the American Arbitration Association asserting,  among other things,
     the right to terminate the master  agreement and seeking  damages under the
     most favored nation  provision or otherwise.  On May 31, 2002, CSG answered
     Broadband's   arbitration   demand  and  asserted  various   counterclaims,
     including for (i) breach of the master  agreement;  (ii) a declaration that
     the  Company  is  now  bound  by the  master  agreement  to use  CSG as its
     exclusive  provider for certain  billing and customer care services;  (iii)
     tortious  interference  with prospective  contractual  relations;  and (iv)
     civil conspiracy.  A hearing in the arbitration is scheduled to commence on
     May 5, 2003.

     On June 21, 2002, CSG filed a lawsuit against  Comcast  Holdings in federal
     court in Denver,  Colorado asserting claims related to the master agreement
     and the  pending  arbitration.  On  November  4,  2002,  CSG  withdrew  its
     complaint against Comcast Holdings without prejudice. On November 15, 2002,
     the  Company   initiated  a  lawsuit   against  CSG  in  federal  court  in
     Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania  asserting  that cable systems owned by Comcast
     Holdings are not required to use CSG as a billing  service or customer care
     provider  pursuant to the master  agreement,  and that the former Broadband
     cable  systems  owned by the  Company  may be added  to a  billing  service
     agreement  between the  Company  and CSG.  CSG moved to dismiss or stay the
     lawsuit on the  ground  that the issues  raised by the  complaint  could be
     wholly or substantially determined by the above-mentioned  arbitration.  By
     Order dated  February 10, 2003,  the Court stayed the lawsuit until further
     notice.

     On January 8, 2003,  Liberty  Digital,  Inc.  filed a complaint in Colorado
     state court against the Company and Comcast Cable  Holdings,  LLC (formerly
     AT&T  Broadband  LLC  and   Tele-Communications,   Inc.),  a  wholly  owned
     subsidiary  of the  Company.  The  complaint  alleges  that  Comcast  Cable
     Holdings breached a 1997  "contribution  agreement" between Liberty Digital
     and Comcast Cable Holdings and that the Company tortiously  interfered with
     that  agreement.  The  complaint  alleges  that  this  purported  agreement
     obligates  Comcast Cable Holdings to pay fees to Liberty  Digital  totaling
     $18 million  (increasing  at CPI) per year  through  2017.  The Company and
     Comcast  Cable  Holdings  filed their  answer to the  complaint on March 5,
     2003, in which they denied the essential  allegations  of the complaint and
     asserted various affirmative defenses.

     In management's opinion, the final disposition of the Starz Encore, CSG and
     Liberty  Digital  contractual  disputes is not  expected to have a material
     adverse effect on the Company's  consolidated financial position or results
     of operations.  However, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome
     would not be material to such consolidated financial position or results of
     operations.

     The Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims which arise in
     the ordinary  course of its  business.  In the opinion of  management,  the
     amount of ultimate  liability  with respect to such actions is not expected
     to  materially  affect the  financial  condition,  results of operations or
     liquidity of the Company.

     In  connection  with a license  awarded  to an  affiliate,  the  Company is
     contingently  liable in the event of  nonperformance  by the  affiliate  to
     reimburse a bank which has provided a performance guarantee.  The amount of
     the  performance  guarantee  is  approximately  $200  million;  however the
     Company's  current  estimate of the amount of expenditures  (principally in
     the  form of  capital  expenditures)  that  will  be made by the  affiliate
     necessary to comply with the performance  requirements  will not exceed $75
     million.


                                     - 82 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)



14. FINANCIAL DATA BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

     The following  represents  the  Company's  significant  business  segments,
     "Cable" and "Commerce." The components of net income (loss) below operating
     income (loss)  before  depreciation  and  amortization  are not  separately
     evaluated  by the  Company's  management  on a segment  basis  (dollars  in
     millions).

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                    Corporate
                                                                            Cable      Commerce   and Other(1)     Total
                                                                          ---------   ----------  ------------- ------------
2002
----
<S>                                                                        <C>         <C>            <C>        <C>
Revenues (2)...........................................................      $7,350      $4,381         $729       $12,460
Operating income before depreciation and amortization (3)..............       2,798         858           35         3,691
Depreciation and amortization..........................................       1,670         119          243         2,032
Operating income (loss) ...............................................       1,128         739         (208)        1,659
Interest expense.......................................................         723          14          147           884
Assets.................................................................     106,291       3,000        3,814       113,105
Long-term debt.........................................................      26,033           1        1,923        27,957
Capital expenditures...................................................       1,814         123           38         1,975

2001
----
Revenues (2)...........................................................      $5,323      $3,917         $596        $9,836
Operating income (loss) before depreciation  and amortization (3)......       2,054         722         (106)        2,670
Depreciation and amortization..........................................       3,044         143          229         3,416
Operating income (loss)................................................        (990)        579         (335)         (746)
Interest expense.......................................................         546          26          162           734
Assets.................................................................      29,085       2,809        6,367        38,261
Long-term debt.........................................................       8,363          63        3,316        11,742
Capital expenditures...................................................       1,855         143          184         2,182

2000
----
Revenues (2)...........................................................      $4,362      $3,536         $459        $8,357
Operating income (loss) before depreciation  and amortization (3)......       1,903         619          (64)        2,458
Depreciation and amortization..........................................       2,419         126           74         2,619
Operating income (loss)................................................        (516)        493         (138)         (161)
Interest expense.......................................................         516          35          177           728
Assets.................................................................      25,764       2,632        7,478        35,874
Long-term debt.........................................................       6,711         302        3,504        10,517
Capital expenditures...................................................       1,249         156          232         1,637
______________
<FN>
(1)  Other includes  segments not meeting  certain  quantitative  guidelines for
     reporting  including  the  Company's  content  (see  Note  1) and  business
     communications  operations,  as well as elimination  entries related to the
     segments  presented.  Corporate and other assets  consist  primarily of the
     Company's  investments   and  intangible  assets  related to the  Company's
     content operations (see Notes 6 and 7).
(2)  Revenues include $678 million,  $508 million and $458 million in 2002, 2001
     and 2000,  respectively,  of non-US  revenues,  principally  related to the
     Company's Commerce segment.  No single customer accounted for a significant
     amount of the Company's revenues in any period.
(3)  Operating  income (loss) before  depreciation  and amortization is commonly
     referred to in the Company's businesses as "EBITDA." EBITDA is a measure of
     a company's ability to generate cash to service its obligations,  including
     debt service obligations, and to finance capital and other expenditures. In
     part due to the capital  intensive  nature of the Company's  businesses and
     the resulting  significant level of non-cash  depreciation and amortization
     expense,  EBITDA  is  frequently  used as one of the  bases  for  comparing
     businesses in the Company's  industries,  although the Company's measure of
     EBITDA  may  not be  comparable  to  similarly  titled  measures  of  other
     companies.  EBITDA is the primary basis used by the Company's management to
     measure  the  operating  performance  of its  businesses.  EBITDA  does not
     purport  to  represent  net  income  or  net  cash  provided  by  operating
     activities,  as those terms are defined under generally accepted accounting
     principles,  and  should  not  be  considered  as an  alternative  to  such
     measurements as an indicator of the Company's performance.

</FN>
</TABLE>



                                     - 83 -
<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)



15. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              First      Second      Third       Fourth       Total
                                                             Quarter     Quarter    Quarter     Quarter       Year
                                                            ---------   ---------  ---------  ------------  ---------
                                                                   (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                                            <C>         <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
  2002
  ----
  Revenues..................................................   $2,672      $2,709     $2,705       $4,374     $12,460
  Operating income..........................................      421         478        431          329       1,659
  Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
     accounting change......................................      (89)       (210)        76          (51)      (274)
  Basic earnings (loss) for common
     stockholders per common share
    Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
     accounting change......................................    (0.09)      (0.22)      0.08        (0.03)      (0.25)
    Net income (loss).......................................    (0.09)      (0.22)      0.08        (0.03)      (0.25)
  Diluted earnings (loss) for common
     stockholders per common share
    Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
     accounting change......................................    (0.09)      (0.22)      0.08        (0.03)      (0.25)
    Net income (loss).......................................    (0.09)      (0.22)      0.08        (0.03)      (0.25)
  Operating income before depreciation and
     amortization (1).......................................      808         867        826        1,190       3,691

  2001
  ----
  Revenues..................................................   $2,232      $2,338     $2,401       $2,865      $9,836
  Operating loss............................................     (101)       (133)      (178)        (334)       (746)
  Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting
       change...............................................      617          35       (107)        (321)        224
  Basic earnings (loss) for common
       stockholders per common share
    Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting
       change...............................................     0.65        0.04      (0.11)       (0.34)       0.24
    Net income (loss).......................................     1.06        0.04      (0.11)       (0.34)       0.64
  Diluted earnings (loss) for common
       stockholders per common share
    Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting
       change...............................................     0.64        0.04      (0.11)       (0.34)       0.23
    Net income (loss).......................................     1.04        0.04      (0.11)       (0.34)       0.63
  Operating income before depreciation and
       amortization (1).....................................      634         693        701          642       2,670
<FN>
______________
(1)  See Note 14, note 3.
</FN>
</TABLE>



                                     - 84 -


<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


16. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     In November 2002, in order to simplify the Company's capital structure, the
     Company and four of its cable holding company  subsidiaries,  Comcast Cable
     Communications,   Inc.   (Comcast   Cable   or   "CCCI"),   Comcast   Cable
     Communications  Holdings,  Inc. (Comcast Cable  Communications  Holdings or
     "CCCH"),  Comcast MO Group,  Inc.  ("Comcast MO Group"),  and Comcast Cable
     Holdings,  LLC (Comcast Cable Holdings or "CCH",  and together with Comcast
     MO Group, "CCHMO"), fully and unconditionally  guaranteed each other's debt
     securities (see Note 8). Condensed  consolidating  financial information of
     the  Company as of and for the year ended  December  31, 2002 is as follows
     (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   Comcast Corporation
                                          Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
                                                 As of December 31, 2002



                                                                                               Elimination
                                                                        Combined    Non-           and       Consolidated
                                             Comcast    CCCI     CCCH     CCHMO   Guarantor   Consolidation    Comcast
                                              Parent   Parent   Parent   Parents Subsidiaries   Adjustments  Corporation
                                             -------- -------- --------  ------- ------------   -----------  -----------
<S>                                             <C>    <C>      <C>     <C>        <C>            <C>          <C>
ASSETS
   Cash and cash equivalents................    $        $        $         $         $781          $             $781
   Investments..............................       30                                3,236                       3,266
   Accounts receivable, net.................                                         1,383                       1,383
   Inventories, net.........................                                           479                         479
   Assets held for sale.....................                                           613                         613
   Deferred income taxes....................                                           129                         129
   Other current assets.....................       22                                  403                         425
                                             -------- -------- -------- --------- --------      ---------  -----------
     Total current assets...................       52                                7,024                       7,076
                                             -------- -------- -------- --------- --------      ---------  -----------
   INVESTMENTS..............................                                        15,207                      15,207
     INVESTMENTS IN AND AMOUNTS DUE FROM
     SUBSIDIARIES ELIMINATED UPON
     CONSOLIDATION..........................   39,356   21,818   33,683    40,749   13,913       (149,519)
   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, net..............                                        18,866                      18,866
   FRANCHISE RIGHTS.........................                                        48,222                      48,222
   GOODWILL.................................                                        17,397                      17,397
   OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, net.............                                         5,599                       5,599
   OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS, net............        74       99      121                444                         738
                                             -------- -------- -------- --------- --------      ---------  -----------
   Total Assets.............................  $39,482  $21,917  $33,804   $40,749 $126,672      ($149,519)    $113,105
                                             ======== ======== ======== ========= ========      =========  ===========

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
   Accounts payable.........................       $1    $        $          $      $1,662          $           $1,663
   Accrued expenses and other current
     liabilities ...........................      208      107       46       469    4,819                       5,649
   Liabilities related to assets held
     for sale...............................                                            13                          13
   Deferred income taxes....................                                         1,105                       1,105
   Short-term debt..........................                      3,750                                          3,750
   Current portion of long-term debt........                                1,465    1,738                       3,203
                                             -------- -------- -------- --------- --------      ---------  -----------
     Total current liabilities..............      209      107    3,796     1,934    9,337                      15,383
                                             -------- -------- -------- --------- --------      ---------  -----------
   LONG-TERM DEBT, less current portion.....      680    7,897    6,005     4,932    8,443                      27,957
   DEFERRED INCOME TAXES....................                                        23,110                      23,110
   OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES.............      264                         200    5,188                       5,652
   MINORITY INTEREST........................                                         2,674                       2,674

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
   Common stock.............................       25                                                               25
   Other stockholders' equity...............   38,304   13,913   24,003    33,683   77,920       (149,519)      38,304
                                             -------- -------- -------- --------- --------      ---------  -----------
     Total Stockholders' Equity.............   38,329   13,913   24,003    33,683   77,920       (149,519)      38,329
                                             -------- -------- -------- --------- --------      ---------  -----------
     Total Liabilities and Stockholders'
       Equity..............................   $39,482  $21,917  $33,804   $40,749 $126,672      ($149,519)    $113,105
                                             ======== ======== ======== ========= ========      =========  ===========

</TABLE>


                                                          - 85 -

<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Continued)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   Comcast Corporation
                                     Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
                                           For the Year Ended December 31, 2002



                                                                                               Elimination
                                                                        Combined    Non-           and       Consolidated
                                             Comcast    CCCI     CCCH     CCHMO   Guarantor   Consolidation    Comcast
                                              Parent   Parent   Parent   Parents Subsidiaries   Adjustments  Corporation
                                             -------- -------- --------  ------- ------------   -----------  -----------
<S>                                             <C>    <C>      <C>     <C>        <C>            <C>          <C>

REVENUES
   Service revenues.........................    $        $        $          $         $8,079       $          $8,079
   Net sales from electronic retailing......                                            4,381                   4,381
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
                                                                                       12,460                  12,460
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
COSTS AND EXPENSES
   Operating (excluding depreciation).......                                            3,511                   3,511
   Cost of goods sold from electronic
      retailing (excluding depreciation)....                                            2,793                   2,793
   Selling, general and administrative......       24                           37      2,404                   2,465
   Depreciation.............................                                            1,775                   1,775
   Amortization.............................                                              257                     257
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
                                                   24                           37     10,740                  10,801
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------

OPERATING INCOME (LOSS).....................      (24)                         (37)     1,720                   1,659

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
   Interest expense.........................       (2)   (566)      (59)       (46)      (211)                   (884)
   Investment expense.......................                                             (605)                   (605)
   Equity in net losses of affiliates.......     (124)    847      (176)      (125)       399         (924)      (103)
   Other income.............................                                                3                       3
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
                                                 (126)    281      (235)      (171)      (414)        (924)    (1,589)
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
  BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND MINORITY
  INTEREST..................................     (150)    281      (235)      (208)     1,306         (924)        70
INCOME TAX (EXPENSE) BENEFIT................       10     221        23         32       (420)                   (134)
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
   BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST.................     (140)    502      (212)      (176)       886         (924)       (64)
MINORITY INTEREST...........................                                             (212)                   (212)
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS....     (140)    502      (212)      (176)       674         (924)      (276)
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.....................                                                2                       2
                                             -------- ------- ---------   --------   --------   ---------- ----------
NET INCOME (LOSS)...........................    ($140)   $502     ($212)     ($176)      $676        ($924)     ($274)
                                             ======== ======= =========   ========   ========   ========== ==========


</TABLE>





                                                          - 86 -



<PAGE>

COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000 (Concluded)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   Comcast Corporation
                                     Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
                                           For the Year Ended December 31, 2002


                                                                                               Elimination
                                                                        Combined    Non-           and       Consolidated
                                             Comcast    CCCI     CCCH     CCHMO   Guarantor   Consolidation    Comcast
                                              Parent   Parent   Parent   Parents Subsidiaries   Adjustments  Corporation
                                             -------- -------- --------  ------- ------------   -----------  -----------
<S>                                             <C>    <C>      <C>     <C>        <C>            <C>          <C>

OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income (loss)...........................    ($140)   $502     ($212)   ($176)      676         ($924)        ($274)
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss)
   to net cash provided by operating
   activities from continuing operations:
   Depreciation.............................                                         1,775                       1,775
   Amortization.............................                                           257                         257
   Non-cash interest expense, net...........              (16)               (11)       37                          10
   Equity in net losses (income) of
     affiliates.............................      124    (847)      176      125      (399)          924           103
   Losses (gains) on investments and
     other (income) expense, net............                                           673                         673
   Minority interest........................                                           212                         212
   Deferred income taxes....................                                          (100)                       (100)
   Other....................................                                           (21)                        (21)
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------
                                                  (16)   (361)      (36)     (62)    3,110                       2,635
   Changes in working capital
     Decrease in accounts receivable, net...                                            87                          87
     Increase in inventories, net...........                                           (25)                        (25)
     Increase in other assets...............                                           (40)                        (40)
     Increase in accounts payable, accrued
       expenses and other current
       liabilities.........................        16       3       (15)    (112)      448                         340
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------
                                                   16       3       (15)    (112)      470                         362

   Discontinued operations..................                                            (2)                         (2)
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------

     Net cash provided by (used in) operating
     activities from continuing operations..             (358)      (51)    (174)    3,578                       2,995
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
   Proceeds from borrowings.................      680   1,568     6,501                 10                       8,759
   Retirements and repayments of debt.......           (2,216)   (6,100)     (10)   (1,482)                     (9,808)
   Proceeds from settlement of interest rate
      exchange agreements...................               57                                                       57
   Issuances of common stock................                                            19                          19
   Equity contributions from a minority
      partner to a subsidiary...............                                           13                          13
   Deferred financings costs................             (225)                        (107)                       (332)
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------
   Net cash (used in) provided by
     financing activities from continuing
     operations.............................      680    (816)      401      (10)   (1,547)                     (1,292)
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Net transactions with affiliates............     (680)  1,174      (350)     184      (328)
Acquisitions, net of cash required..........                                          (251)                       (251)
Proceeds from sales of (purchases of)
   short-term investments, net..............                                           (21)                        (21)
Capital contributions to and purchases of
   investments..............................                                           (67)                        (67)
Proceeds from sales and settlements of
   investments..............................                                         1,263                       1,263
Capital expenditures........................                                        (1,975)                     (1,975)
Additions to intangible and other
   noncurrent assets........................                                          (221)                       (221)
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------
   Net cash (used in) provided by
   investing activities from
   continuing operations....................     (680)  1,174      (350)     184    (1,600)                     (1,272)
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------

INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS.......                                           431                         431
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
   beginning of year........................                                           350                         350
                                             -------- -------  --------  ------- ---------      --------     ---------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
   end of year..............................     $       $         $        $         $781          $             $781
                                             ======== =======  ========  ======= =========      ========     =========

</TABLE>

                                                          - 87 -
<PAGE>

ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
       FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                    PART III

     Except for the information  regarding  executive  officers required by Item
401 of Regulation S-K, which is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form
10-K as Item 4A in  accordance  with General  Instruction  G(3),  the  following
required  information  is  incorporated  by  reference to our  definitive  Proxy
Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders  presently scheduled to be held
in May 2003:

        Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
        Item 11  Executive Compensation
        Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
                   and Related Stockholder Matters
        Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     We will file our  definitive  Proxy  Statement  for our  Annual  Meeting of
Shareholders with the Securities and Exchange  Commission on or before April 30,
2003.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14 CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

         (a)  Disclosure  controls and procedures.  Our chief executive  officer
              and  our  co-chief  financial   officers,   after  evaluating  the
              effectiveness  of our  "disclosure  controls and  procedures"  (as
              defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-14(c) and
              15d-14(c))  as of a date (the  "Evaluation  Date")  within 90 days
              before the filing date of this annual report,  have concluded that
              as of the Evaluation Date, our disclosure  controls and procedures
              were  adequate  and designed to ensure that  material  information
              relating  to us and our  consolidated  subsidiaries  would be made
              known to them by others within those entities.

         (b)  Changes in internal controls. There were no significant changes in
              our internal  controls or to our knowledge,  in other factors that
              could  significantly  affect our internal  controls and procedures
              subsequent to the Evaluation Date.

ITEM 15 EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the Company are
included in Part II, Item 8:

              Independent Auditors' Report..................................37
              Consolidated Balance Sheet--December 31, 2002 and 2001........38
              Consolidated Statement of Operations--Years
                Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000......................39
              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows--Years
                Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000......................40
              Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity--
                Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000................41
              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements....................42

     (b)      (i) The following  financial  statement  schedules  required to be
              filed by Items 8 and 14(d) of Form 10-K are included in Part IV:

              Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

              All other  schedules are omitted  because they are not applicable,
              not  required  or the  required  information  is  included  in the
              consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

     (c) Reports on Form 8-K:

         (i)  We filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K under Item 5 on October 30,
              2002 for  purposes of  incorporating  by reference  the  Quarterly
              Report on Form 10-Q of Comcast Holdings Corporation (f/k/a Comcast
              Corporation) into the registration  statement on Form S-4 relating
              to AT&T Corp.'s pending  exchange offer



                                     - 88 -

<PAGE>
              in respect of an  aggregate  of $11.8  billion of AT&T's  existing
              debt  securities.  We were a  co-registrant  on the exchange offer
              registration statement.
         (ii) We filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K12g3  under Items 2, 5 and 7
              on  November  18,  2002  announcing  (a)  the  completion  of  the
              Agreement and Plan of AT&T Broadband  Merger with AT&T Corp. which
              resulted in the combination of Comcast Holdings Corporation (f/k/a
              Comcast  Corporation)  and AT&T  Broadband,  a holding  company of
              AT&T's  broadband  business,  (b) the conditioned  approval by the
              Federal  Communications  Commission  ("FCC")  of the  transfer  of
              certain FCC licenses to complete the transaction, (c) the adoption
              of a  shareholder  rights  plan,  (d)  the  repayment  of  certain
              intracompany debt, (e) certain corporate name changes, (f) certain
              technical  amendments to the transaction  agreements,  and (g) the
              names of the new Comcast Corporation board of directors.
         (iii)We filed a Current  Report on Form  8-K/A  under  Items 2 and 7 on
              December  16, 2002  amending  our Current  Report on Form  8-K12g3
              filed on  November  18,  2002 to include  the pro forma  financial
              information  of Comcast  Corporation,  giving effect to the merger
              with AT&T's broadband business.

     (d) Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
          2.1       Composite  copy of Agreement  and Plan of Merger dated as of
                    December  19,  2001,  as  amended,  among  Comcast  Holdings
                    Corporation (f/k/a Comcast Corporation), AT&T Corp., Comcast
                    Cable  Communications  Holdings,  Inc. (f/k/a AT&T Broadband
                    Corp.), Comcast Corporation (f/k/a AT&T Comcast Corporation)
                    and the other parties  signatory  thereto  (incorporated  by
                    reference  to  Exhibit  2.1 to our  Current  Report  on Form
                    8-K12g3 filed on November 18, 2002).
          2.2       Composite  copy of  Separation  and  Distribution  Agreement
                    dated as of December  19,  2001,  as amended,  between  AT&T
                    Corp. and Comcast Cable Communications Holdings, Inc. (f/k/a
                    AT&T Broadband Corp.)  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    2.3 to our Current Report on Form 8- K12g3 filed on November
                    18, 2002).
          2.3       Support Agreement dated as of December 19, 2001, as amended,
                    among  AT&T  Corp.,   Comcast  Holdings  Corporation  (f/k/a
                    Comcast   Corporation),   Comcast  Corporation  (f/k/a  AT&T
                    Comcast  Corporation),   Sural  LLC  and  Brian  L.  Roberts
                    (incorporated   by   reference   to   Exhibit   2.3  to  our
                    registration  statement  on Form S-4 filed on  February  11,
                    2002).
          2.4       Tax Sharing  Agreement dated as of December 19, 2001 between
                    AT&T Corp. and Comcast Cable Communications  Holdings,  Inc.
                    (f/k/a AT&T Broadband  Corp.)  (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 2.4 to our registration  statement on Form S-4 filed
                    on February 11, 2002).
          2.5       Composite Copy of Employee  Benefits  Agreement  dated as of
                    December  19,  2001,  as  amended,  between  AT&T Corp.  and
                    Comcast  Cable  Communications  Holdings,  Inc.  (f/k/a AT&T
                    Broadband Corp.)
          2.6       Exchange Agreement dated as of December 7, 2001, as amended,
                    between   Microsoft   Corporation   and   Comcast   Holdings
                    Corporation  (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation)  (incorporated  by
                    reference  to Exhibit 2.6 to our  registration  statement on
                    Form S-4 filed on February 11, 2002).
          2.7       Instrument  of Admission  dated as of December 19, 2001,  as
                    amended,  between  Comcast  Corporation  (f/k/a AT&T Comcast
                    Corporation)  and AT&T Corp.  (incorporated  by reference to
                    Exhibit 2.7 to our amended  registration  statement  on Form
                    S-4/A filed on April 10, 2002.
          3.1       Composite   copy  of  Amended  and   Restated   Articles  of
                    Incorporation  of Comcast  Corporation  (f/k/a AT&T  Comcast
                    Corporation)  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 2.2 to
                    our Current  Report on Form  8-K12g3  filed on November  18,
                    2002).
          3.2       Amended and Restated By-Laws.
          4.1       Specimen Class A Common Stock Certificate.
          4.2       Specimen Class A Special Common Stock Certificate.
          4.3       Rights  Agreement  dated as of  November  18,  2002  between
                    Comcast  Corporation  (f/k/a AT&T Comcast  Corporation)  and
                    EquiServe  Trust  Company,  N.A.,  as  Rights  Agent,  which
                    includes the Form of  Certificate of Designation of Series A
                    Participant's  Cumulative  Preferred  Stock as Exhibit A and
                    the Form of Right  Certificate as Exhibit B (incorporated by
                    reference to our registration statement on Form 8-A12g filed
                    on November 18, 2002).
          4.4       Credit  Agreement  dated as of April 26, 2002 among  Comcast
                    Corporation (f/k/a AT&T Comcast Corporation),  Comcast Cable
                    Communications  Holdings, Inc. (f/k/a AT&T Broadband Corp.),
                    the Financial  Institutions  party  thereto,  JPMorgan Chase
                    Bank, as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and Issuing
                    Lender,  Citibank,  N.A., as Syndication  Agent, and Bank of
                    America,  N.A., Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch,  Pierce,
                    Fenner  &  Smith  Incorporated  and  Morgan  Stanley  Senior
                    Funding,  Inc., as  Co-Documentation  Agent (incorporated by
                    reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  our  amended   registration
                    statement on Form S-4/A filed on May 14, 2002).
          4.5       Bridge  Credit  Agreement  dated as of April 26,  2002 among
                    Comcast   Corporation  (f/k/a  AT&T  Comcast   Corporation),
                    Comcast  Cable  Communications  Holdings,  Inc.  (f/k/a AT&T
                    Broadband Corp.), the Financial  Institutions party thereto,
                    JPMorgan  Chase Bank,  as  Administrative  Agent,  Citibank,
                    N.A.,  as  Syndication  Agent,  and Bank of  America,  N.A.,
                    Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill




                                     - 89 -

<PAGE>
                    Lynch,  Pierce,  Fenner  &  Smith  Incorporated  and  Morgan
                    Stanley Senior Funding,  Inc., as Co-  Documentation  Agents
                    (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  4.2 to our amended
                    registration statement on Form S-4/A filed on May 14, 2002).
          4.6       Amended and Restated  Five-Year  Revolving  Credit Agreement
                    effective as of November 18,  2002,  amending and  restating
                    the Five-Year  Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August
                    24, 2000, among Comcast Cable Communications,  Inc., Comcast
                    Corporation  (f/k/a AT&T Comcast  Corporation),  the Lenders
                    party thereto and Bank of America,  N.A., as  Administrative
                    Agent. (incorporated by reference to Annex I of Exhibit 10.3
                    to the Comcast Cable  Communications,  Inc. Quarterly Report
                    on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).
          4.7       First Amendment to Amended and Restated Five-Year  Revolving
                    Credit Agreement dated as of February 7, 2003, among Comcast
                    Cable Communications,  Inc., Comcast Corporation (f/k/a AT&T
                    Comcast Corporation),  the Lenders party thereto and Bank of
                    America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
          4.8       Amended and  Restated  364-Day  Revolving  Credit  Agreement
                    effective as of November 18,  2002,  amending and  restating
                    the 364-Day  Revolving  Credit  Agreement dated as of August
                    24, 2000, among Comcast Cable Communications,  Inc., Comcast
                    Corporation  (f/k/a AT&T Comcast  Corporation),  the Lenders
                    party thereto and Bank of America,  N.A., as  Administrative
                    Agent. (incorporated by reference to Annex I of Exhibit 10.4
                    to the Comcast Cable  Communications,  Inc. Quarterly Report
                    on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).
          4.9       First  Amendment to Amended and Restated  364-Day  Revolving
                    Credit Agreement dated as of February 7, 2003, among Comcast
                    Cable Communications,  Inc., Comcast Corporation (f/k/a AT&T
                    Comcast Corporation),  the Lenders party to thereto and Bank
                    of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
          4.10      Indenture,  dated as of October 17,  1991,  between  Comcast
                    Holdings Corporation (f/k/a Comcast Corporation) and Bank of
                    Montreal/Harris  Trust  (successor to Morgan  Guaranty Trust
                    Company  of New  York),  as  Trustee,  relating  to  Comcast
                    Holdings'  10-5/8% Senior  Subordinated  Debentures due 2012
                    (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  2 to the  Comcast
                    Holdings  Corporation  Current  Report  on Form 8-K filed on
                    October 31, 1991).
          4.11      Form of Debenture relating to Comcast Holdings Corporation's
                    (f/k/a  Comcast  Corporation)  10- 5/8% Senior  Subordinated
                    Debentures  due 2012  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                    4(17) to the Comcast Holdings  Corporation  Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).
          4.12      Senior  Indenture  dated as of June 15, 1999 between Comcast
                    Holdings  Corporation  (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation)  and The
                    Bank  of New  York  (as  successor  in  interest  to Bank of
                    Montreal  Trust  Company),   as  Trustee   (incorporated  by
                    reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to the  registration  statement on
                    Form S-3 of Comcast Holdings filed on June 23, 1999).
          4.13      Form of Debenture relating to Comcast Holdings Corporation's
                    (f/k/a   Comcast   Corporation)   Zero  Coupon   Convertible
                    Debentures  due 2020  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                    4.7 to the Comcast  Holdings  Corporation  Annual  Report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000).
          4.14      Indenture  dated as of May 1, 1997,  between  Comcast  Cable
                    Communications,  Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor
                    in interest to Bank of Montreal Trust Company),  as Trustee,
                    relating  to Comcast  Cable  Communications,  Inc.'s  8-1/8%
                    Notes due 2004,  8-3/8%  Notes due 2007,  8- 7/8%  Notes due
                    2017,  8-1/2% Notes due 2027,  6.20% Notes due 2008,  6.375%
                    Notes due 2006, 6.75% Notes due 2011,  6.875% Notes due 2009
                    and 7.125%  Notes due 2013  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the registration  statement on Form S-4 of
                    Comcast Cable Communications, Inc. filed on June 3, 1997).
          4.15      Form of Comcast Cable Communications Inc.'s 8-1/8% Notes due
                    2004,  8-3/8%  Notes  due  2007,  8-7/8%  Notes due 2017 and
                    8-1/2%  Notes due 2027,  6.20% Notes due 2008,  6.375% Notes
                    due 2006,  6.75% Notes due 2011,  6.875%  Notes due 2009 and
                    7.125% Notes due 2013  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    4.1(b) to the registration  statement on Form S-4 of Comcast
                    Cable Communications, Inc. filed on June 3, 1997).
          4.16      Form of  Indenture  among  Comcast  Corporation  (f/k/a AT&T
                    Comcast Corporation),  Comcast Cable  Communications,  Inc.,
                    Comcast  Cable  Communications  Holdings,  Inc.  (f/k/a AT&T
                    Broadband  Corp.),  Comcast Cable Holdings,  LLC (f/k/a AT&T
                    Broadband,  LLC),  Comcast MO Group,  Inc.  (f/k/a  MediaOne
                    Group,  Inc.), and The Bank of New York, as Trustee relating
                    to Comcast  Cable  Communications  Holdings,  Inc.'s  8.375%
                    Notes due March 15, 2013 and 9.455%  Notes Due  November 15,
                    2022  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.18 to our
                    amended  registration  statement  on  Form  S-4/A  filed  on
                    September 26, 2002).
          4.17      Form of Comcast Cable Communications Holdings, Inc.'s 8.375%
                    Notes Due March  15,  2013  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                    Exhibit 4.19 to our amended  registration  statement on Form
                    S-4/A filed on September 26, 2002).




                                     - 90 -


<PAGE>

          4.18      Form of Comcast Cable Communications Holdings, Inc.'s 9.455%
                    Notes Due  November 15, 2022  (incorporated  by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.20 to our amended  registration  statement on Form
                    S-4/A filed on September 26, 2002).
          4.19      Form of  Indenture  among  Comcast  Corporation  (f/k/a AT&T
                    Comcast Corporation),  Comcast Cable  Communications,  Inc.,
                    Comcast  Cable  Communications  Holdings,  Inc.  (f/k/a AT&T
                    Broadband  Corp.),  Comcast Cable Holdings,  LLC (f/k/a AT&T
                    Broadband,  LLC),  Comcast MO Group,  Inc.  (f/k/a  MediaOne
                    Group,  Inc.), and The Bank of New York, as Trustee relating
                    to  Comcast  Corporation's  5.85%  Notes  due 2010 and 6.50%
                    Notes Due 2015  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to
                    our registration statement on Form S-3 filed on December 16,
                    2002).
          4.20      Form  of   Comcast   Corporation's   (f/k/a   AT&T   Comcast
                    Corporation) 5.85% Notes due 2010 (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit  4.1 to our  Current  Report on Form 8-K filed on
                    January 10, 2003).
          4.21      Form  of   Comcast   Corporation's   (f/k/a   AT&T   Comcast
                    Corporation) 6.50% Notes due 2015 (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit  4.2 to our  Current  Report on Form 8-K filed on
                    January 10, 2003).
          4.22      Form of  Subordinated  Indenture  between  Comcast  Holdings
                    Corporation  (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation)  and Bankers Trust
                    Company,   as   Trustee,   relating   to  Comcast   Holdings
                    Corporation's 2.0% Exchangeable  Subordinated Debentures Due
                    2029  and  2.0%  Exchangeable  Subordinated  Debentures  Due
                    November 2029  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
                    Comcast  Holdings  Corporation's  registration  statement on
                    Form S-3 filed on June 23, 1999).
          4.23      Form  of  Comcast  Holdings   Corporation's  (f/k/a  Comcast
                    Corporation) 2.0% Exchangeable  Subordinated  Debentures Due
                    2029 (ZONES I)  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4 to
                    Comcast  Holdings  Corporation's  Current Report on Form 8-K
                    filed on October 14, 1999).
          4.24      Form  of  Comcast  Holdings   Corporation's  (f/k/a  Comcast
                    Corporation) 2.0% Exchangeable  Subordinated  Debentures Due
                    November  2029  (ZONES II)  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                    Exhibit 4 to Comcast Holdings  Corporation's  Current Report
                    on Form 8-K filed on November 3, 1999).
          9.1       Agreement and  Declaration  of Trust of TWE Holdings I Trust
                    by and among MOC Holdco I, Inc.,  Edith E.  Holiday  and The
                    Capital Trust Company of Delaware (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 99.2 to our Current  Report on Form 8-K12g3 filed
                    on November 18, 2002).
          9.2       Form of Agreement and  Declaration  of Trust of TWE Holdings
                    II Trust by and among MOC Holdco II, Inc.,  Edith E. Holiday
                    and The Capital Trust Company of Delaware  (incorporated  by
                    reference  to  Exhibit  99.3 to our  Current  Report on Form
                    8-K12g3 filed on November 18, 2002).
          9.3       Agreement and Declaration of Trust of TWE Holdings III Trust
                    by and among Media One TWE Holdings,  Inc., Edith E. Holiday
                    and The Capital Trust Company of Delaware  (incorporated  by
                    reference  to  Exhibit  99.4 to our  Current  Report on Form
                    8-K12g3 filed on November 18, 2002).
          10.1*     Comcast  Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan, as amended and
                    restated, effective November 18, 2002.
          10.2*     Comcast  Corporation  2002 Stock Option Plan, as amended and
                    restated, effective February 26, 2003.
          10.3*     Comcast  Corporation  2003  Stock  Option  Plan,  as adopted
                    February 26, 2003.
          10.4*     Comcast  Corporation  2002  Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as
                    amended and restated, effective February 26, 2003.
          10.5*     Comcast  Corporation  2002  Deferred  Stock Option Plan,  as
                    amended and restated, effective February 26, 2003.
          10.6*     Comcast  Corporation  2002 Restricted Stock Plan, as amended
                    and restated, effective February 26, 2003.
          10.7*     1992 Executive Split Dollar Insurance Plan  (incorporated by
                    reference  to  Exhibit   10(12)  to  the  Comcast   Holdings
                    Corporation  (f/k/a  Comcast  Corporation)  Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).
          10.8*     Comcast Corporation 2002 Cash Bonus Plan (formerly, the 1996
                    Cash  Bonus  Plan),  as  amended  and  restated,   effective
                    November 18, 2002.
          10.9*     Comcast Corporation 2002 Executive Cash Bonus Plan (formerly
                    the 1996  Executive  Cash Bonus  Plan),  as amended  through
                    February 26, 2003.
          10.10*    Comcast  Corporation 2002  Supplemental  Cash Bonus Plan, as
                    adopted November 18, 2002.
          10.11*    Comcast Corporation 2002 Non-Employee  Director Compensation
                    Plan, as amended and restated, effective February 26, 2003.
          10.12*    Compensation and Deferred  Compensation  Agreement and Stock
                    Appreciation Bonus Plan between Comcast Holdings Corporation
                    (f/k/a Comcast Corporation) and Ralph J. Roberts, as
                    amended  and  restated  March  16,  1994   (incorporated  by
                    reference  to  Exhibit   10(13)  to  the  Comcast   Holdings
                    Corporation  (f/k/a  Comcast  Corporation)  Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).
          10.13*    Compensation  and Deferred  Compensation  Agreement  between
                    Comcast Holdings Corporation (f/k/a Comcast Corporation) and
                    Ralph J.  Roberts,  as amended and restated  August  31,1998


                                     - 91 -

<PAGE>

                    (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 10.1 to the Comcast
                    Holdings Corporation (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation)  quarterly
                    report  on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  September  30,
                    1998).
          10.14*    Amendment    Agreement   to   Compensation    and   Deferred
                    Compensation  Agreement between Comcast Holdings Corporation
                    (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation) and Ralph J. Roberts,  dated as
                    of August 19, 1999  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
                    10.2 to the  Comcast  Holdings  Corporation  (f/k/a  Comcast
                    Corporation)  quarterly  report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended March 31, 2000).
          10.15*    Amendment  to   Compensation   and   Deferred   Compensation
                    Agreement  between  Comcast  Holdings   Corporation   (f/k/a
                    Comcast Corporation) and Ralph J. Roberts,  dated as of June
                    5, 2001  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the
                    Comcast  Holdings  Corporation  (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation)
                    Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
                    2001).
          10.16*    Amendment  to   Compensation   and   Deferred   Compensation
                    Agreement  between  Comcast  Holdings   Corporation   (f/k/a
                    Comcast  Corporation)  and  Ralph  J.  Roberts,  dated as of
                    January 24, 2002.
          10.17*    Amendment  to   Compensation   and   Deferred   Compensation
                    Agreement  between  Comcast  Holdings   Corporation   (f/k/a
                    Comcast  Corporation)  and  Ralph  J.  Roberts,  dated as of
                    November 18, 2002.
          10.18*    Employment Agreement between Comcast Corporation (f/k/a AT&T
                    Comcast  Corporation) and C. Michael Armstrong,  dated as of
                    November 18, 2002.
          10.19*    Compensation  Agreement between Comcast Holdings Corporation
                    (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation) and Brian L. Roberts,  dated as
                    of June 16, 1998  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                    to  the  Comcast   Holdings   Corporation   (f/k/a   Comcast
                    Corporation)  quarterly  report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended March 31, 2000).
          10.20*    Amendment to Compensation Agreement between Comcast Holdings
                    Corporation   (f/k/a  Comcast   Corporation)  and  Brian  L.
                    Roberts, dated as of November 18, 2002.
          10.21*    Certificate  of Interest of Julian Brodsky under the Comcast
                    Holdings  Corporation (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation)  Unfunded
                    Plan of Deferred Compensation.
          10.22*    Employment  Agreement  between Comcast Holdings  Corporation
                    (f/k/a Comcast Corporation) and Julian A. Brodsky,  dated as
                    of May 1, 2002.
          10.23*    Amendment to Employment  Agreement  between Comcast Holdings
                    Corporation  (f/k/a  Comcast   Corporation)  and  Julian  A.
                    Brodsky, dated as of November 18, 2002.
          10.24*    Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  Comcast  Holdings
                    Corporation  (f/k/a  Comcast  Corporation)  and  Stephen  B.
                    Burke, dated as of May 31, 2000.
          10.25*    First Amendment to Executive  Employment  Agreement  between
                    Comcast Holdings Corporation (f/k/a Comcast Corporation) and
                    Stephen B. Burke, dated as of July 30, 2001.
          10.26*    Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  Comcast  Holdings
                    Corporation  (f/k/a  Comcast  Corporation)  and  Lawrence S.
                    Smith, dated as of May 31, 2000.
          10.27*    Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  Comcast  Holdings
                    Corporation (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation) and John R. Alchin,
                    dated as of May 31, 2000.
          10.28*    Comcast Corporation  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
                    as   amended   and   restated,   effective   June  5,   2001
                    (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.10 to the Comcast
                    Holdings  Corporation  (f/k/a  Comcast  Corporation)  Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001).
          10.29*    Comcast  Holdings  Corporation  (f/k/a Comcast  Corporation)
                    2002 Employee  Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated,
                    effective November 18, 2002.
          10.30*    Comcast  Cable   Communications   Holdings,   Inc.  Deferred
                    Compensation   Plan  (f/k/a  the  AT&T  Broadband   Deferred
                    Compensation  Plan),  as  amended  and  restated,  effective
                    November 18, 2002  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
                    to our registration  statement on Form S-8 filed on November
                    19, 2002).
          10.31*    Comcast Cable Communications  Holdings, Inc. Adjustment Plan
                    (f/k/a the AT&T Broadband Corp. Adjustment Plan).
          10.32     Amended and  Restated  Stockholders  Agreement,  dated as of
                    February 9, 1995, among the Company,  Comcast QVC, Inc., QVC
                    Programming Holdings,  Inc., Liberty Media Corporation,  QVC
                    Investment,  Inc. and Liberty  QVC,  Inc.  (incorporated  by
                    reference   to  Exhibit   10.5  to  the   Comcast   Holdings
                    Corporation (f/k/a Comcast Corporation)  Quarterly Report on
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995).
          21        List of Subsidiaries.
          23.1      Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
__________
Pursuant to Item  601(4)(iii)(A)  of Regulation  S-K, the  registrant  agrees to
furnish upon request to the Securities and Exchange Commission other instruments
defining the rights of holders of long-term debt.

* Constitutes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                     - 92 -

<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its  behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized  in  Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania on March 20, 2003.

                                        Comcast Corporation

                                        By:  /s/ Brian L. Roberts
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Brian L. Roberts
                                             President, Chief Executive Officer
                                              and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                    <C>                                               <C>
               Signature                                           Title                                    Date

/s/ Ralph J. Roberts                          Chairman of the Executive and Finance Committee          March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------             of the Board of Directors; Director
Ralph J. Roberts

/s/ C. Michael Armstrong                        Chairman of the Board of Directors; Director           March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
C. Michael Armstrong

/s/ Brian L. Roberts                          President and Chief Executive Officer; Director          March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------                (Principal Executive Officer)
Brian L. Roberts

/s/ Julian A. Brodsky                                     Vice Chairman; Director                      March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
Julian A. Brodsky

/s/ Lawrence S. Smith                                     Executive Vice President                     March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------               (Co-Principal Financial Officer)
Lawrence S. Smith

/s/ John R. Alchin                                 Executive Vice President and Treasurer              March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------               (Co-Principal Financial Officer)
John R. Alchin

/s/ Lawrence J. Salva                               Senior Vice President and Controller               March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------                (Principal Accounting Officer)
Lawrence J. Salva

/s/ S. Decker Anstrom                                             Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
S. Decker Anstrom

/s/ Kenneth J. Bacon                                              Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
Kenneth J. Bacon

/s/ Sheldon M. Bonovitz                                           Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
Sheldon M. Bonovitz

/s/ Joseph L. Castle, II                                          Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
Joseph L. Castle, II

/s/ J. Michael Cook                                               Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
J. Michael Cook

/s/ Dr. Judith Rodin                                              Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
Dr. Judith Rodin

/s/ Louis A. Simpson                                              Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
Louis A. Simpson

/s/ Michael I. Sovern                                             Director                             March 20, 2003
---------------------------------------
Michael I. Sovern
</TABLE>


                                                        - 93 -


<PAGE>

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT





Board of Directors and Stockholders
Comcast Corporation
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Our audits of the financial statements referred to in our report dated March 17,
2003 (which report expresses an unqualified  opinion and includes an explanatory
paragraph related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133,  "Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging  Activities," as
amended,  effective  January 1, 2001,  and  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangibles,"  effective January 1, 2002)
appearing in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K of Comcast  Corporation  (formerly
known as AT&T Comcast  Corporation)  (the "Company") for the year ended December
31, 2002 also included the financial  statement schedule of the Company,  listed
in Item 15(b)(i). This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the
Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
audits. In our opinion,  such financial statement  schedule,  when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,  presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.


Deloitte & Touche LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
March 17, 2003




                                     - 94 -

<PAGE>

                                      COMCAST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                      ------------------------------------
                                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                                  --------------------------------------------
                                                 (In millions)
                                                 -------------


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                 Additions
                                                Balance at      Charged to        Deductions        Balance
                                                 Beginning      Costs and            from            at End
                                                  of Year       Expenses(A)        Reserves(B)        of Year
                                                -----------    ------------     --------------    ------------

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
------------------------------------------
<C>                                                    <C>             <C>                <C>             <C>
2002                                                   $154            $202               $123            $233

2001                                                    142              86                 74             154

2000                                                    137              66                 61             142


Allowance for Excess and Obsolete
  Electronic Retailing Inventories
------------------------------------------

2002                                                   $114             $57                $56            $115

2001                                                    105              55                 46             114

2000                                                     89              46                 30             105




<FN>
(A) Includes $71 million not charged to costs and expenses but resulting from
    the Broadband acquisition in 2002.
(B) Uncollectible accounts and excess and obsolete inventory written off.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                                     - 95 -

<PAGE>

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Brian L. Roberts, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

     a)  designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to  ensure  that
         material  information   relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
         consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
         entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
         being prepared;

     b)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
         procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
         annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c)  presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness
         of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of
         the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of  registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the
     equivalent functions):

     a)  all  significant  deficiencies  in the design or  operation of internal
         controls  which  could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
         record,   process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
         identified  for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
         internal controls; and

     b)  any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management or other
         employees  who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
         controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether there were significant  changes in internal  controls
     or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal  controls
     subsequent  to the  date  of our  most  recent  evaluation,  including  any
     corrective  actions with regard to  significant  deficiencies  and material
     weaknesses.


Date: March 20, 2003



/s/ BRIAN L. ROBERTS
--------------------------------------------
Name: Brian L. Roberts
Chief Executive Officer


                                     - 96 -

<PAGE>

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Lawrence S. Smith, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

     a)  designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to  ensure  that
         material  information   relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
         consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
         entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
         being prepared;

     b)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
         procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
         annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c)  presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness
         of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of
         the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of  registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the
     equivalent functions):

     a)  all  significant  deficiencies  in the design or  operation of internal
         controls  which  could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
         record,   process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
         identified  for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
         internal controls; and

     b)  any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management or other
         employees  who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
         controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether there were significant  changes in internal  controls
     or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal  controls
     subsequent  to the  date  of our  most  recent  evaluation,  including  any
     corrective  actions with regard to  significant  deficiencies  and material
     weaknesses.


Date: March 20, 2003


/s/ LAWRENCE S. SMITH
--------------------------------------------
Name: Lawrence S. Smith
Co-Chief Financial Officer



                                     - 97 -


<PAGE>

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, John R. Alchin, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Comcast Corporation;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

     a)  designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to  ensure  that
         material  information   relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
         consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
         entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
         being prepared;

     b)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
         procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
         annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c)  presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness
         of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of
         the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of  registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the
     equivalent functions):

     a)  all  significant  deficiencies  in the design or  operation of internal
         controls  which  could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
         record,   process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
         identified  for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
         internal controls; and

     b)  any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management or other
         employees  who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
         controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether there were significant  changes in internal  controls
     or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal  controls
     subsequent  to the  date  of our  most  recent  evaluation,  including  any
     corrective  actions with regard to  significant  deficiencies  and material
     weaknesses.


Date: March 20, 2003


/s/JOHN R. ALCHIN
--------------------------------------------
Name: John R. Alchin
Co-Chief Financial Officer



                                     - 98 -

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
