<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM10K
<TEXT>
________________________________________________________________________________

                                    FORM 10-K

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

            [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005

                                       OR

          [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                          Commission file number 1-5397

                         AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                    22-1467904
   (State or other jurisdiction             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
of incorporation or organization)

One ADP Boulevard, Roseland, New Jersey                  07068
(Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   973-974-5000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                Name of each exchange on
         Title of each class                       which registered

     Common Stock, $.10 Par Value               New York Stock Exchange
              (voting)                          Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                Pacific Exchange

      Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2012        New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2)  has  been  subject  to the  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No _____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K (Section  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein and
will not be  contained,  to the best of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive
proxy or information  statements  incorporated  by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  Registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes x No _____

Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). [ ] Yes [x] No

The aggregate  market value of the voting and  non-voting  common equity held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of the last business day of the Registrant's
most recently completed second fiscal quarter was approximately $25,860,350,486.
On August 24, 2005 there were 578,425,694 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's 2005 Annual Report                 Parts I, II & IV
to Stockholders.

Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for Annual                 Part III
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on November 8, 2005.
________________________________________________________________________________

<PAGE>

                                     Part I

Item 1. Business

     Automatic Data Processing, Inc., incorporated in Delaware in 1961 (together
with  its  subsidiaries  "ADP"  or the  "Registrant"),  is  one  of the  largest
providers  of  computerized  transaction  processing,   data  communication  and
information  services in the world. For financial  information by segment and by
geographic area, see Note 16 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"
contained in ADP's 2005 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which  information  is
incorporated  herein by reference.  The Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly  Reports on Form 10-Q,  Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments
to those reports,  Proxy  Statement for its Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  and
Annual Report to Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on its website
at  www.adp.com as soon as reasonably  practicable  after such reports have been
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following
summary describes ADP's activities.

Employer Services

     Employer  Services  offers a  comprehensive  range of human resource ("HR")
information,   payroll  processing  and  benefit  administration   products  and
services, including traditional and Web-based outsourcing solutions, that assist
over 518,000  employers in the United  States,  Canada,  Europe,  South  America
(primarily  Brazil),  Australia and Asia to staff,  manage, pay and retain their
employees.  Employer  Services  markets these products and services  through its
direct  marketing  sales force and, on a limited basis,  through  indirect sales
channels, such as marketing relationships with banks and accountants.  In fiscal
2005, 86% of Employer  Services'  revenues were from the United States,  9% were
from  Europe,  4% were from  Canada  and 1% was from  South  America  (primarily
Brazil), Australia and Asia.

United States and Canada

     Employer Services' approach to the market is to match a client's needs with
the product that will best meet  expectations.  To facilitate this approach,  in
the United  States and Canada,  Employer  Services is comprised of the following
groups:  Small Business Services ("SBS") (primarily companies with fewer than 50
employees); Major Accounts Services (primarily companies with between 50 and 999
employees);  and National  Account Services  (primarily  companies with 1,000 or
more employees).

     SBS processes  payroll for smaller companies and provides them with leading
solutions,  including  a range of  value-added  services  that are  specifically
designed  for small  business  clients.  Major  Accounts  Services  and National
Account  Services  offer  a  full  suite  of  best-of-breed   employer  services
solutions,  including  full database and other  functional  integration  between
payroll and HR, for clients  ranging from mid-sized  through many of the world's
largest corporations.

     Through ADP  Connection(R)  (in the United  States),  and by using  current
product import  capabilities (in Canada),  ADP can enable its largest clients to
interface  their major  enterprise  resource  planning  applications  with ADP's
outsourced  payroll  services.  For those companies that choose to process these
applications  in-house,  ADP  currently  delivers  stand-alone  services such as
payroll tax filing,  check printing and distribution and year-end tax statements
(i.e.,  form W-2) in the  United  States.  In  addition,  in order to expand its
presence in the small business  client market,  during fiscal 2005 ADP continued
to develop with  Microsoft(R)  Corporation two new fully  integrated ADP payroll
solutions-ADP  Payroll(SM)  and ADP  Total  Payroll(SM)--that  will be  included
within Microsoft(R) Office Small Business Accounting 2006, available only in the
United States. ADP Payroll will offer users access to a

                                    2
<PAGE>

"do-it-yourself" solution similar to those that are available in the traditional
software  market  and ADP  Total  Payroll  will  offer a  full-featured  payroll
solution for those who prefer to fully outsource payroll processing. ADP expects
these new offerings to be available for general  distribution  through Microsoft
Office Small Business Accounting 2006 during fiscal 2006.

     In order to address the growing business process  outsourcing  (BPO) market
for clients seeking  customized human resource  information  systems and benefit
outsourcing  solutions,  ADP continued to roll out its integrated  comprehensive
outsourcing  services  (COS)  solution that allows a client to outsource its HR,
payroll,    payroll   administration,    employee   service   center,   benefits
administration, and time and labor management functions to ADP.

     In the United States and Canada, ADP provides payroll services that include
the preparation of client  employee  paychecks and electronic  direct  deposits,
along with supporting journals,  summaries and management reports. In the United
States, ADP also supplies the quarterly and annual social security, medicare and
federal,  state and local income tax withholding reports required to be filed by
employers and  employees,  and  analogous  services are provided in the Canadian
market.

     ADP's Tax and  Financial  Services  business  in the United  States and its
money movement business in Canada process and collect federal, state, provincial
and local  payroll  taxes on behalf of, and from,  ADP  clients  and remit these
taxes to the appropriate  taxing  authorities.  ADP's Tax and Financial Services
business in the United States and its money movement business in Canada are also
responsible for the efficient  movement of information and funds from clients to
third  parties  through  service  offerings  such as new hire  reporting,  ADP's
TotalPay(R)  payroll check  (ADPCheck(TM)),  full service  direct deposit (FSDD)
and,  in  conjunction  with major  bank  partners,  stored  value  payroll  card
(TotalPay(R)   Card)   products,   and  the   collection  and  payment  of  wage
garnishments.  In the United States and Canada,  these businesses support large,
mid-sized  and  small  clients  and  provide  an  electronic  interface  between
approximately 401,000 ADP clients and over 2,000 federal,  state, provincial and
local tax agencies, from the Internal Revenue Service and Canada Revenue Agency,
to local town  governments.  In fiscal 2005,  ADP's Tax and  Financial  Services
business in the United States and its money movement business in Canada together
processed and delivered over 49 million  year-end tax statements to its clients'
employees  (i.e.,  form W-2 in the United  States and  analogous  statements  in
Canada) and  approximately  40.5 million  remittances  and employer  payroll tax
returns,  and  moved  approximately  $885  billion  in  client  funds to  taxing
authorities and its clients' employees via electronic  transfer,  direct deposit
and ADPCheck.

     ADP's HR services, by interfacing with a client's payroll database, provide
comprehensive HR recordkeeping  services,  including benefit  administration and
outsourcing,  applicant tracking,  employee history and position control.  ADP's
Benefit  Services  provides benefit  administration  across all market segments,
including  management  of the open  enrollment  of benefits,  COBRA and flexible
spending account administration, Section 529 College Savings Plan administrative
services and 401(k) recordkeeping.

     In the United  States,  ADP  TotalSource(R),  ADP's  professional  employer
organization  ("PEO") business,  provides clients with comprehensive  employment
administration  outsourcing  solutions,  including payroll,  payroll tax filing,
employee  background checks, HR guidance,  401(k) plan  administration,  benefit
administration,   compliance  services,   workers'  compensation  insurance  and
supplemental benefits for employees. ADP TotalSource(R),  the second largest PEO
in the U.S. (based on the number of worksite employees),  has 36 offices located
in sixteen states and serves  approximately  4,900 PEO clients and approximately
113,000 work-site employees in all 50 states.

                                    3
<PAGE>

     ADP  complements  its payroll,  payroll tax and HR services with additional
employer  services  that  include  products  such as time and labor  management,
pre-employment  screening and selection  services,  substance  abuse testing and
unemployment  compensation  management.   ADP's  Tax  Credit  Services  business
provides job tax credit services that assist employers in the identification of,
and filing for,  special tax credits based on geography,  demographics and other
criteria.

Outside the United States and Canada

     The  continued  increase in the number of  multi-national  companies  makes
payroll and human resource management services a global opportunity.  In Europe,
ADP is the leading provider of payroll  processing  (including full departmental
outsourcing)  and  various  human  resource  administration  services.  Employer
Services is present in eight countries in Europe:  France,  Germany,  Italy, the
Netherlands,  Poland, Spain,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom. It also offers
services in Ireland (from the United  Kingdom) and in Portugal (from Spain).  In
South America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia, Employer Services provides
full departmental outsourcing of payroll services. In fiscal 2005, ADP continued
to expand its  GlobalView(SM)  offering,  making it available  in 18  countries.
GlobalView is built on the mySAP(TM)  ERP Human Capital  Management  and the SAP
NetWeaver(TM)  platform  and offers  multinational  corporations  an  end-to-end
outsourcing   solution  enabling   standardized  payroll  processing  and  human
resources administration.

Brokerage Services

     Brokerage  Services  provides  transaction  processing  services,   desktop
productivity applications and investor communications solutions to the financial
services industry worldwide.  Brokerage Services' products and services include:
(i) global order entry,  trade  processing  and  settlement  systems that enable
firms to trade virtually any financial  instrument,  in any market, at any time;
(ii) Internet delivery;  personalized  on-demand and offset financial  printing;
statements,   confirmations,   fulfillment,  content  management,  and  imaging,
archival,  and workflow  solutions that enhance  communications  with investors;
proxy distribution and vote processing,  regulatory mailings,  tax reporting and
corporate actions/reorganization solutions that help clients meet regulatory and
compliance needs; (iii) automated,  browser-based desktop productivity tools for
financial consultants and back office personnel; and (iv) integrated delivery of
multiple products and services through ADP's Global Processing Solution.

     Brokerage  Services  serves a large client base in the  financial  services
industry,  including:  retail and institutional  brokerage firms;  global banks;
mutual funds;  annuity  companies;  institutional  investors;  specialty trading
firms;  clearing  firms;  and publicly owned  corporations.  Brokerage  Services
provides securities transaction processing, printing and electronic distribution
of  shareholder  communications  and other  services  to  clients  that  conduct
business in more than 90 countries in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.
Brokerage  Services  also  provides   computerized  proxy  vote  tabulation  and
shareholder  communication,  distribution  and fulfillment  services,  including
Web-enabled  products and  services.  In fiscal 2005,  ADP served  approximately
13,000 United States publicly traded  companies and 450 mutual funds and annuity
companies  with proxy  services on behalf of more than 850  brokerage  firms and
banks.

Securities Clearing and Outsourcing Services

     In fiscal 2005,  ADP completed  its  acquisition  of the U.S.  Clearing and
BrokerDealer  Services  divisions of Bank of America and created the  Securities
Clearing and Outsourcing Services segment.  This acquisition furthered Brokerage
Services'  business process  outsourcing  strategy by positioning ADP to provide
any brokerage  firm,  regardless of size, an  appropriate  range of  outsourcing
services to best

                                    4
<PAGE>

meet its  individual  needs on a single  technology  platform:  service  bureau,
operations outsourcing, or correspondent clearing services.

     Securities  Clearing and Outsourcing  Services provides clearing,  custody,
financing,  securities  lending,  trade execution and  outsourcing  solutions to
broker-dealers.  Securities  Clearing and Outsourcing  Services derives revenues
from   commissions  and  service  charges  related  to  clearing  and  execution
activities and from interest  income on margin  financing,  client short selling
activity, and uninvested balances.  Securities Clearing and Outsourcing Services
also  extends  margin  loans  directly  to   correspondents   to  finance  their
proprietary activity.

     Securities  transactions  are  effected  for  customers on either a cash or
margin  basis.  In a margin  transaction,  Securities  Clearing and  Outsourcing
Services extends credit to a customer for a portion of the purchase price of the
security. Such credit is collateralized by securities in the customer's accounts
in accordance with regulatory and internal requirements. Securities Clearing and
Outsourcing  Services  receives  income  from  interest  charged on such  loans.
Securities Clearing and Outsourcing  Services also borrows securities from banks
and other  broker-dealers  to facilitate  customer and proprietary short selling
activity,  and lends securities to broker-dealers  and other trading entities to
cover  short  sales  and to  complete  transactions  that  require  delivery  of
securities by settlement date.

Dealer Services

     Dealer  Services  provides  integrated  dealer  management  systems (such a
system is also known in the  industry  as a "DMS")  and  business  solutions  to
automotive,   heavy  truck,  and  powersports  (i.e.,  motorcycle,   marine  and
recreational)  vehicle retailers and manufacturers  throughout North America and
Europe.  More than 19,500  automotive,  heavy truck and powersports  dealers use
ADP's  DMS,  other  software  based  solutions,   networking   solutions,   data
integration, consulting and/or marketing services.

     Dealer  Services  offers  its  dealership  clients a service  product  that
includes computer hardware,  hardware maintenance  services,  licensed software,
software support, system design and network consulting services. Dealer Services
also offers its clients Web-enabled business solutions,  "front-end"  dealership
sales process and business development  training services,  consulting services,
software products and customer relationship  management solutions (CRM). Clients
use an ADP DMS to manage  business  activities  such as  accounting,  inventory,
factory  communications,  scheduling,  vehicle financing,  insurance,  sales and
service. Dealer Services also designs,  establishes and maintains communications
networks for its dealership clients that allow interactive  communications among
multiple  site  locations  (for  larger  dealers),  as  well  as  links  between
franchised dealers and their vehicle  manufacturer  franchisors.  These networks
are used  for  activities  such as new  vehicle  ordering  and  status  inquiry,
warranty  submission  and  validation,  parts and vehicle  locating,  dealership
customer  credit   application   submission  and  decisioning,   vehicle  repair
estimation and acquisition of vehicle  registration and lien holder information.
Dealer  Services  also offers an  Application  Service  Provider  (ASP)  managed
services  solution to its dealership  clients in which the clients license ADP's
DMS and/or other software,  and outsource all information technology management,
computing and network infrastructure, technology decisions and system support to
Dealer Services.

     In fiscal 2005, ADP acquired Tesoft  Automocion S.A., which provides dealer
management systems to approximately 1,500 automotive dealers in Spain,  Portugal
and France. ADP also acquired AutoFuse,  Inc., a web site development  solutions
company.

                                    5
<PAGE>

Claims Services

     Claims Services  offers  integrated  business  solutions for clients in the
property insurance,  auto collision repair and auto recycling industries.  These
solutions  help clients  manage costs,  improve  efficiency  and  accelerate the
claims review and settlement  process.  Claims  Services'  products and services
include (i) claims management  applications,  such as automated collision repair
estimating,  total loss vehicle  valuation,  first notice of loss,  dispatch and
assignment,   claims  audit,  claims  payment,   managed  repair  solutions  and
alternative parts locating,  that streamline the end-to-end claims process, (ii)
body shop and auto recycler  management  systems and auto  recycler  alternative
parts locating  solutions,  (iii) other  applications,  databases and management
information  tools and services that enhance and optimize the claims process and
(iv) insurance broker risk management and insurance  distribution  services that
help  clients  create,  update and manage  insurance  policies.  In fiscal 2005,
Claims Services  expanded its auto claims services into India,  Russia,  Eastern
Europe and Central America.  It also acquired a majority interest in its Spanish
licensee, Audatex Espana, S.A.

Markets and Marketing Methods

     ADP's services are offered  broadly  across North America and Europe.  Some
services within the Employer Services and Brokerage  Services business units are
also offered in Australia and Asia,  and Employer  Services and Claims  Services
also provides services in South America (primarily Brazil).

     None of ADP's major business groups have a single homogenous client base or
market. For example,  Brokerage Services and Securities Clearing and Outsourcing
Services serve a large client base in the financial services industry, including
retail and institutional firms, banks and individual non-brokerage corporations.
Dealer  Services  primarily  serves  automobile  dealers,  but also serves heavy
truck, powersports (i.e., motorcycle, marine and recreational), and agricultural
equipment dealers,  auto repair shops, used car lots, state departments of motor
vehicles and  manufacturers of automobiles,  trucks and agricultural  equipment.
Claims  Services  has many  clients  who are  insurance  companies,  but it also
provides services to automobile manufacturers, body repair shops, salvage yards,
distributors of new and used automobile parts and other  non-insurance  clients.
Employer  Services has clients from a large variety of  industries  and markets.
Within this client base are  concentrations  of clients in specific  industries.
Employer  Services also sells to auto dealers,  brokerage  clients and insurance
clients.  While concentrations of clients exist, no one client or industry group
is material to ADP's overall revenues.

     ADP's  businesses  are not  overly  sensitive  to price  changes.  Economic
conditions  among  selected  clients  and  groups of  clients  may and do have a
temporary impact on demand for ADP's services. In fiscal 2005, Employer Services
continued to grow,  primarily due to the increase in its United  States  payroll
and payroll tax businesses,  including new business  started in the fiscal year,
an increase in the number of employees on our clients'  payrolls,  strong growth
in its "beyond  payroll"  products,  and improved  client  retention;  Brokerage
Services  grew  as a  consequence  of  the  increased  volume  in  its  investor
communication  services  resulting  from an increase in the amount of holders of
equities and an increase in mutual fund special communications;  Dealer Services
grew due to the revenues  generated in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004 acquisitions
and  growth in its  traditional  businesses;  and our  investment  income on our
client funds  increased due to the increase in our average  client fund balances
and higher interest rates.

     ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major service offerings and
does not believe any major  service or business unit in ADP is subject to unique
market risk.

                                    6
<PAGE>

Competition

     The  computing  services  industry is highly  competitive.  ADP knows of no
reliable statistics by which it can determine the number of its competitors, but
it believes that it is one of the largest providers of computerized  transaction
processing, data communication and information services in the world.

     ADP's competitors  include other independent  computing services companies,
divisions of diversified  enterprises and banks.  Another  competitive factor in
the computing  services industry is the in-house computing  function,  whereby a
company installs and operates its own computing systems.

     Competition  in the  computing  services  industry  is  primarily  based on
service responsiveness,  product quality and price. ADP believes that it is very
competitive  in each of these  areas  and that  there are no  material  negative
factors impacting ADP's competitive position in the computing services industry.
No one competitor or group of competitors is dominant in the computing  services
industry.

Clients and Client Contracts

     ADP provides its services to approximately 590,000 clients. In fiscal 2005,
no single client or group of affiliated clients accounted for revenues in excess
of 2% of annual consolidated revenues.

     ADP has no material  "backlog" because the period between the time a client
agrees to use ADP's  services and the time the service  begins is generally very
short and because no sale is  considered  firm until it is installed  and begins
producing  revenue.  ADP receives  sales orders in all of our  businesses and is
continuously  in the  process  of  performing  implementation  services  for our
clients.  Depending on the service agreement and/or the size of the client,  the
installation or conversion period for new clients could vary from a short period
of time (up to two weeks) for an SBS client to a longer period (generally six to
twelve months) for a National  Account  Services or Dealer  Services client with
multiple deliverables.

     ADP's  average  client  retention  is  estimated  at more  than 8 years  in
Employer  Services  and is 10 or more  years in  Brokerage  Services  and Dealer
Services, and does not vary significantly from period to period.

     ADP's  services are provided  under  written  price  quotations  or service
agreements  having  varying  terms and  conditions.  No one price  quotation  or
service agreement is material to ADP. Discounts,  rebates and promotions offered
by ADP to clients are not material.

Systems Development and Programming

     During the fiscal  years ended June 30, 2005,  2004 and 2003,  ADP invested
$696  million,  $704  million,  and  $604  million,   respectively,  in  systems
development and  programming,  migration to new computing  technologies  and the
development  of new  products  and  maintenance  of our  existing  technologies,
including purchases of new software and software licenses.

Product Development

     ADP continually  upgrades,  enhances and expands its existing  products and
services. Generally, no new product or service has a significant effect on ADP's
revenues or negatively  impacts its existing  products and  services,  and ADP's
products and services have a significant remaining life cycle.

                                    7
<PAGE>

Licenses

     ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer  programs and
databases.  ADP's  business is not dependent  upon a single  license or group of
licenses.  Third-party  licenses,  patents,  trademarks  and  franchises are not
material to ADP's business as a whole.

Number of Employees

     ADP employed approximately 44,000 persons as of June 30, 2005.

Item 2. Properties

     ADP leases space for 22 of its principal  processing  centers. In addition,
ADP leases numerous other  operational  offices and sales offices.  All of these
leases,  which aggregate  approximately  7,374,053 square feet in North America,
Europe,  South America  (primarily  Brazil),  Asia,  Australia and South Africa,
expire  at  various  times up to the year  2018.  ADP owns 15 of its  processing
facilities,  other operational offices and its corporate headquarters complex in
Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate  approximately 3,574,365 square feet. None
of ADP's owned facilities is subject to any material encumbrances.  ADP believes
its  facilities  are  currently  adequate  for their  intended  purposes and are
adequately maintained.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

     In the normal  course of  business,  the  Registrant  is subject to various
claims  and  litigation.  While the  outcome  of any  litigation  is  inherently
unpredictable, the Registrant believes it has valid defenses with respect to the
legal matters pending  against it and the Registrant  believes that the ultimate
resolution  of these  matters  will not have a  material  adverse  impact on its
financial  condition,  results of  operations  or cash flows.  Among the various
claims and litigation pending against the Registrant is the following:

     The Registrant and its indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries Dealer Solutions,
L.L.C. and Dealer Solutions Holdings,  Inc. ("DSI") are named as defendants in a
lawsuit filed on March 4, 1999 in the 133rd  Judicial  District  Court of Harris
County,   Texas  by  Universal  Computer  Systems,   Inc.,   Universal  Computer
Consulting,  Ltd.,  Universal  Computer  Services,  Inc.,  and  Dealer  Computer
Services, Inc. (collectively,  "UCS"), which lawsuit has since been tried before
an arbitration  panel in June 2003. This lawsuit alleges trade secret violations
by DSI in the  creation  by DSI of the  CARMan  automobile  dealership  software
product and  misappropriation  of those trade secrets by the Registrant  through
its acquisition of DSI. UCS sought injunctive relief and damages of $56 million.
On November 11, 2003,  the  arbitration  panel  appointed by the District  Court
entered  an Award in favor of DSI and its  co-defendants.  The Award  denied all
relief to UCS. The Award has been affirmed and adopted by the District  Court as
a final judgment of the Court. On March 12, 2004, the plaintiffs filed an appeal
of the final  judgment,  which  appeal is now pending  before the Texas Court of
Appeals.  The  Registrant  believes that the judgment of the District  Court was
correct and that the Registrant should prevail.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     None

                                    8
<PAGE>

                                     Part II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's  Common Equity,  Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

     See "Market Price,  Dividend Data and Other"  contained in the Registrant's
2005 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which information is incorporated herein by
reference.  As of August 17, 2005, the Registrant had 40,337 registered  holders
of its Common Stock, par value $.10 per share. The Registrant's  Common Stock is
traded on the New York, Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges.

     On January 24, 2005,  the  Registrant  issued  12,452  shares of its Common
Stock, with a market value of approximately  $500,000,  in respect of an earnout
paid to a company  related to an asset  purchase  agreement  dated  November 30,
2000, pursuant to which the Registrant acquired  substantially all of the assets
of such company.  The  Registrant  issued the  foregoing  shares of Common Stock
without  registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,  in reliance
upon the  exemption  therefrom set forth in Section 4(2) of such Act relating to
sales by an issuer not involving a public offering.

     Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                       <C>                    <C>                     <C>                    <C>

                                   (a)                    (b)                     (c)                    (d)
                                                                            Total Number of
                                                                          Shares Purchased as     Maximum Number of
                                                                         Part of the Publicly    Shares that may yet
                                                                           Announced Common      be Purchased under
                             Total Number of       Average Price Paid      Stock Repurchase       the Common Stock
     Period                 Shares Purchased          per Share (3)             Plan (1)         Repurchase Plan (1)
--------------------        -----------------      ------------------    --------------------    --------------------
April 1, 2005 to
April 30, 2005                    444,610                $44.12                  444,400             17,204,400

May 1, 2005 to
May 31, 2005                    1,068,509                $44.11                1,050,000             16,154,400

June 1, 2005 to
June 30, 2005                   2,573,044                $42.04                2,563,300             13,591,100

Total                         4,086,163(2)                                     4,057,700

</TABLE>

(1) In March 2001, the Registrant  received the Board of Directors'  approval to
repurchase up to 50 million shares of the Registrant's common stock. In November
2002, the Registrant  received the Board of Directors' approval to repurchase an
additional  35 million  shares of the  Registrant's  common  stock.  There is no
expiration date for the common stock repurchase plan.

(2) During  2005,  pursuant to the terms of the  Registrant's  restricted  stock
program,  the Registrant  (i) made  repurchases of 210 shares during April 2005,
3,509 shares  during May 2005 and 744 shares during June 2005 at the then market
value of the shares in connection with the exercise by employees of their option
under such program to satisfy certain tax withholding  requirements  through the
delivery of shares to the Registrant  instead of cash and (ii)

                                    9
<PAGE>

made  purchases of 15,000  shares  during May 2005 and 9,000 shares  during June
2005 at a price of $.10 per share under the terms of such program to  repurchase
stock granted to employees who have left the Registrant.

(3) The average  price per share does not include the  repurchases  described in
clause (ii) of the preceding footnote.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

     See "Selected  Financial  Data" contained in the  Registrant's  2005 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

     See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
Results of  Operations"  contained  in the  Registrant's  2005 Annual  Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
Results of  Operations"  contained  in the  Registrant's  2005 Annual  Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The financial  statements  described in Item 15(a)1 hereof are incorporated
herein.

     The following supplementary data is incorporated herein by reference:

     Quarterly Financial Results (unaudited) for the two fiscal years ended June
30,  2005  (see  Note 17 of the  "Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements"
contained in ADP's 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders)

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure

     None

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

     Attached as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K are  certifications of
ADP's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, which are required by
Rule  13a-14(a) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934.  This  "Controls  and
Procedures"  section should be read in conjunction with such  certifications and
the Deloitte & Touche LLP attestation report on management's assessment of ADP's
internal control over financial  reporting that appears on page 47 of ADP's 2005
Annual Report to Stockholders and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Management's Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

     ADP  carried  out  an  evaluation,  under  the  supervision  and  with  the
participation  of ADP's  management,  including its Chief Executive  Officer and
Chief Financial Officer,  of the effectiveness of

                                     10
<PAGE>

ADP's  disclosure  controls and  procedures,  as defined in Rules  13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.  Based on that evaluation,
the Chief  Executive  Officer and Chief  Financial  Officer have  concluded that
ADP's  disclosure  controls and procedures as of June 30, 2005 were effective to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by ADP in reports that it files
or submits  under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,  processed,
summarized  and reported  within the time periods  specified in  Securities  and
Exchange Commission's rules and forms.

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

     It is the  responsibility  of Automatic  Data  Processing,  Inc.'s  ("ADP")
management to establish and maintain  effective  internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Rule  13a-15(f)  under the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934).  Internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is  designed  to  provide
reasonable  assurance to ADP's  management and board of directors  regarding the
preparation of reliable financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.

     ADP's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures  that: (i) pertain to the  maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail,  accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the
assets of ADP; (ii) provide reasonable  assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit  preparation of financial  statements in accordance  with
generally accepted accounting principles,  and that receipts and expenditures of
ADP are being made only in accordance  with  authorizations  of  management  and
directors  of  ADP;  and  (iii)  provide  reasonable   assurance  regarding  the
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized  acquisition,  use or disposition
of ADP's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements of
ADP.

     Because  of its  inherent  limitations,  internal  control  over  financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems
determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to
financial statement preparation and presentation.

     Management  has  performed  an  assessment  of the  effectiveness  of ADP's
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as of June 30,  2005  based  upon
criteria  set forth in Internal  Control -  Integrated  Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on this
assessment,  management  determined  that ADP's internal  control over financial
reporting was effective as of June 30, 2005.

     Management  has  excluded  from its  assessment  of internal  control  over
financial  reporting  at  June  30,  2005  its  subsidiary,   ADP  Clearing  and
Outsourcing  Services,  Inc.,  which  holds  all the  assets  of the  Securities
Clearing  and  Outsourcing  Services  segment  that was formed as a result of an
acquisition on November 1, 2004.  ADP Clearing and  Outsourcing  Services,  Inc.
represents 1% and 5% of ADP's consolidated total revenues and consolidated total
assets, respectively, for the year ended June 30, 2005.

     Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent  registered  public  accounting firm,
has issued an attestation report on management's  assessment of internal control
over financial  reporting,  which attestation report appears on page 47 of ADP's
2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

     There were no changes in ADP's internal  control over  financial  reporting
that  occurred  during  the  quarter  ended June 30,  2005 that have  materially
affected,  or are reasonably likely to materially affect, ADP's internal control
over financial reporting.

                                     11
<PAGE>

Item 9B. Other Information

         None

                                     12
<PAGE>

                                    Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The executive  officers of the  Registrant,  their ages,  positions and the
period during which they have been employed by ADP are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                    <C>                   <C>                                       <C>

                                                                                                       Employed by
        Name                           Age                         Position                            ADP Since
---------------------                  ---                   ------------------------                  -------------

Steven J. Anenen                       52                    President,                                    1975
                                                             Dealer Services

James B. Benson                        60                    Vice President, General                       1977
                                                             Counsel and Secretary

Richard C. Berke                       60                    Vice President, Human                         1989
                                                             Resources

Gary C. Butler                         58                    President and Chief                           1975
                                                             Operating Officer

Janice M. Colby                        50                    President,                                    2001
                                                             Claims Solutions Group

Raymond L. Colotti                     59                    Vice President and                            1995
                                                             Treasurer

Richard J. Daly                        52                    Group President,                              1989
                                                             Brokerage Services

Karen E. Dykstra                       46                    Vice President and                            1981
                                                             Chief Financial Officer

John Hogan                             57                    Group President,                              1993
                                                             Brokerage Services

Campbell B. Langdon                    44                    President,                                    2000
                                                             Tax, Financial and Time
                                                             Management Services

S. Michael Martone                     57                    Group President, Employer                     1987
                                                             Services

Dan Sheldon                            49                    Vice President,                               1984
                                                             Corporate Controller

                                     13
<PAGE>

Jan Siegmund                           41                    Vice President,                               1999
                                                             Strategic Development

George I. Stoeckert                    57                    President, Employer                           1991
                                                             Services - International

Arthur F. Weinbach                     62                    Chairman and                                  1980
                                                             Chief Executive Officer

</TABLE>

     Messrs.  Benson, Berke, Butler,  Colotti, Daly, Hogan, Martone and Weinbach
have each been employed by ADP in senior  executive  positions for more than the
past five years.

     Steven J. Anenen  joined ADP in 1975.  Prior to his promotion to President,
Dealer  Services in 2004, he served as Senior Vice  President,  Dealer  Services
from 1998 to 2004.

     Janice M. Colby joined ADP in 2001.  Prior to her  promotion to  President,
Claims Solutions Group in 2005, she served as President, Small Business Services
Division,  Employer  Services from 2001 to 2005. From 1996 to 2001 she served as
Vice President, Business Customer Care for AT&T Corporation.

     Karen E.  Dykstra  joined  ADP in 1981.  Prior  to her  promotion  to Chief
Financial  Officer in 2003, she served as Vice  President,  Finance from 2001 to
2003 and as Vice President and Controller from 1998 to 2001.

     Campbell  B.  Langdon  joined  ADP in  2000 as  Vice  President,  Strategic
Development.  In 2003,  he was promoted to  President,  Tax,  Financial and Time
Management Services.

     Dan Sheldon joined ADP in 1984.  Prior to his promotion to Vice  President,
Corporate  Controller in 2003, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Brokerage
Services from 2001 to 2003 and Chief  Financial  Officer of Dealer Services from
1996 to 2001.

     Jan Siegmund joined ADP in 1999 as Vice President,  Strategy.  Prior to his
promotion to Vice President,  Strategic Development in 2004, he served as Senior
Vice President of Strategic Development, Brokerage Services from 2000 to 2004.

     George  I.  Stoeckert  joined  ADP  in  1991.  Prior  to his  promotion  to
President,  Employer  Services  International  in 2003, he served as President -
Major Accounts Services Division, Employer Services from 1995 to 2003.

     Each of ADP's  executive  officers  is  elected  for a term of one year and
until  their   successors  are  chosen  and  qualified  or  until  their  death,
resignation or removal.

Directors of the Registrant

     See "Election of Directors" in the Proxy  Statement for  Registrant's  2005
Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,  which  information is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

     See "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance" in the Proxy
Statement  for  Registrant's   2005  Annual  Meeting  of   Stockholders,   which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     14
<PAGE>

Code of Ethics

     ADP has adopted a code of ethics that  applies to its  principal  executive
officer,  principal financial officer,  principal accounting officer and persons
performing similar  functions.  The code of ethics may be viewed online on ADP's
website at www.adp.com under "Ethics" in the "About ADP" section.

Audit Committee

     See "Audit Committee  Report" in the Proxy Statement for Registrant's  2005
Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,  which  information is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

     See "Compensation of Executive Officers" and "Election of Directors" in the
Proxy  Statement for  Registrant's  2005 Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
         Management and Related Stockholder Matters

     See  "Election  of  Directors - Security  Ownership  of Certain  Beneficial
Owners  and  Managers"  and   "Compensation  of  Executive   Officers  -  Equity
Compensation  Plan  Information"  in the Proxy Statement for  Registrant's  2005
Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,  which  information is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     See  "Compensation  of Executive  Officers - Certain  Transactions"  in the
Proxy  Statement for  Registrant's  2005 Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

     See "Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firms' Fees" in the Proxy
Statement  for  Registrant's   2005  Annual  Meeting  of   Stockholders,   which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                        15
<PAGE>

                                     Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

     (a)1. Financial Statements

     The  following  reports  and  consolidated   financial  statements  of  the
Registrant  contained in the Registrant's 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders are
also included in Part II, Item 8:

     Statements of Consolidated Earnings - years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and
     2003

     Consolidated Balance Sheets - June 30, 2005 and 2004

     Statements of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity - years ended June 30,
     2005, 2004 and 2003

     Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows - years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and
     2003

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

     Financial  information of the Registrant is omitted  because the Registrant
is primarily a holding company. The Registrant's subsidiaries,  which are listed
on Exhibit 21 attached hereto, are wholly owned.

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

                                                         Page in Form 10-K
                                                         -----------------

     Report of Independent Registered
     Public Accounting Firm                                      20

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts             21

     All other Schedules have been omitted because they are  inapplicable or are
not  required  or  the  information  is  included  elsewhere  in  the  financial
statements or notes thereto.

     3. Exhibits

     The following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated herein
by reference to the document set forth next to the exhibit in the list below:

     3.1     -     Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated
                   November 11, 1998 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
                   to Registrant's Registration Statement No. 333-72023 on Form
                   S-4 filed with the Commission on February 9, 1999

                                    16
<PAGE>

     3.2     -     Amended and Restated By-laws of the Registrant - incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant's Current Report on
                   Form 8-K, dated August 11, 2005

     4       -     Indenture dated as of February 20, 1992 between Automatic
                   Data Processing, Inc. and Bankers Trust Company, as trustee,
                   regarding the Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2012 of the
                   Registrant - incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)-#1 to
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                   ended June 30, 1992

     10.1    -     Letter Agreement dated as of April 28, 2005 between Automatic
                   Data Processing, Inc. and Arthur F. Weinbach - incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Current Report
                   on Form 8-K, dated April 28, 2005 (Management Contract)

     10.2    -     Letter Agreement dated September 14, 1998 between Automatic
                   Data Processing, Inc. and Gary Butler - incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on
                   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 (Management
                   Contract)

     10.3    -     Key Employees' Restricted Stock Plan - incorporated by
                   reference to Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-25290
                   on Form S-8 (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.4    -     Supplemental Officers' Retirement Plan, as amended -
                   incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                   December 31, 2004 (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.5    -     1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan - incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#7 to Registrant's Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990
                   (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.5(a) -     Amendment to 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan -
                   incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(6)(a) to Registrant's
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
                   1997 (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.6    -     1990 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan - incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#8 to Registrant's Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990
                   (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.6(a) -     Amendment to 1990 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan -
                   incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(7)(a) to Registrant's
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
                   1997 (Management Compensatory Plan)

                                    17
<PAGE>

     10.7    -     1994 Directors' Pension Arrangement - incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#10 to Registrant's Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994
                   (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.8    -     2000 Stock Option Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   10.8 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                   fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2004 (Management
                   Compensatory Plan)

     10.9    -     2001 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan - incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Registrant's Annual Report on
                   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 (Management
                   Compensatory Plan)

     10.10   -     Change in Control Severance Plan for Corporate Officers -
                   incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                   March 31, 2001 (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.11   -     Employees' Saving-Stock Option Plan - incorporated by
                   reference to Registrant's Registration Statement No.
                   333-10281 on Form S-8 (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.12   -     2003 Director Stock Plan - incorporated by reference to
                   Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                   for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2003 (Management
                   Compensatory Plan)

     10.13   -     Amended and Restated Employees' Savings-Stock Purchase Plan -
                   incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant's
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                   December 31, 2003

     10.14   -     364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of June 29, 2005, among
                   Automatic Data Processing, Inc., the Lenders Party thereto,
                   JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of
                   America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and Barclays Bank PLC,
                   BNP Paribas, Citicorp USA, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities
                   Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as
                   Documentation Agents - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   10.14 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June
                   29, 2005

     10.15   -     Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2004, among
                   Automatic Data Processing, Inc., the Lenders Party thereto,
                   JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, J.P. Morgan
                   Europe Limited, as London Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Toronto
                   Branch, as Canadian Agent, the Swingline Lenders, and Bank of
                   America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, BNP Paribas, Citibank,
                   N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia National
                   Association, as Co-Syndication Agents - incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Registrant's Annual Report on
                   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004

                                    18
<PAGE>

     10.16   -     Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of June 29, 2005, among
                   Automatic Data Processing, Inc., the Lenders Party thereto,
                   JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of
                   America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and Barclays Bank PLC,
                   BNP Paribas, Citicorp USA, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities
                   Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as
                   Documentation Agents - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   10.16 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June
                   29, 2005

     10.17   -     2000 Stock Option Grant Agreement (Form for Employees) -
                   incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                   September 30, 2004 (Management Compensatory Plan)

     10.18   -     2000 Stock Option Grant Agreement (Form for French
                   Associates) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                   quarter ended September 30, 2004 (Management Compensatory
                   Plan)

     10.19   -     2000 Stock Option Grant Agreement (Form for Non-Employee
                   Directors) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                   quarter ended September 30, 2004 (Management Compensatory
                   Plan)

     10.20   -     Directors Compensation Summary Sheet - incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Registrant's Current Report on
                   Form 8-K, dated August 11, 2005

     13      -     Pages 16 to 47 of the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders
                   (with the exception of the pages incorporated by reference
                   herein, the Annual Report is not a part of this filing)

     21      -     Subsidiaries of the Registrant

     23      -     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

     31.1    -     Certification by Arthur F. Weinbach pursuant to Rule
                   13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

     31.2    -     Certification by Karen E. Dykstra pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)
                   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

     32.1    -     Certification by Arthur F. Weinbach pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
                   Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
                   Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

     32.2    -     Certification by Karen E. Dykstra pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
                   Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
                   Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

                                    19

<PAGE>

             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
Roseland, New Jersey



We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Automatic  Data
Processing,  Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2005 and 2004,
and for each of the three  years in the  period  ended June 30,  2005,  and have
issued our report  thereon dated August 17, 2005;  such  consolidated  financial
statements  and report are included in your 2005 Annual  Report to  Stockholders
and  are  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  Our  audits  also  included  the
consolidated  financial  statement schedule of Automatic Data Processing,  Inc.,
listed at Item 15(a)2.  This financial  statement schedule is the responsibility
of the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based
on  our  audits.  In  our  opinion,  such  financial  statement  schedule,  when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole,  presents  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the information set forth
therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
--------------------------
New York, New York
August 17, 2005

                                    20
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                    AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.

                                                           AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                            SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                                             (In thousands)


Column A                            Column B                   Column C                Column D            Column E
--------                            --------                   --------                --------            --------

                                                               Additions
                                                        ----------------------
                                                        (1)                (2)

<S>                                 <C>              <C>               <C>            <C>                 <C>

                                                                       Charged to
                                    Balance at       Charged to        other                              Balance at
                                    beginning        costs and         accounts-       Deductions-        end of
                                    of period        expenses          describe        describe           period
                                    ---------        -----------       -----------     -----------        -----------

Year ended June 30, 2005:
Allowance for doubtful accounts:
  Current                           $50,980          $17,964           $1,209(B)       $(24,475)(A)        $45,678

  Long-term                         $8,578           $1,326            $   --          $ (1,732)(A)         $8,172

Deferred tax valuation allowance    $25,858          $7,821            $   --          $ (1,205)(E)        $32,474


Year ended June 30, 2004:
Allowance for doubtful accounts:
  Current                           $54,654          $15,656           $3,335(B)       $(22,665)(A)        $50,980

  Long-term                         $11,103          $680              $   --          $ (3,205)(A)         $8,578

Deferred tax valuation allowance    $32,220          $2,953            $   --          $ (9,315)(D)        $25,858


Year ended June 30, 2003:
Allowance for doubtful accounts:
  Current                           $52,873          $17,588           $  712(B)       $(16,519)(A)        $54,654

  Long-term                         $16,019          $1,534            $   --          $ (6,450)(A)        $11,103

Deferred tax valuation allowance    $40,140          $5,318            $  899(C)       $ (14,137)(E)       $32,220



(A) Doubtful accounts written off, less recoveries on accounts previously written off.
(B) Acquired in purchase transactions.
(C) Related to foreign exchange fluctuation.
(D) Related to the net deferred tax assets recorded in purchase accounting.  The recognition of this allowance is allocated to
    reduce goodwill.
(E) A portion of this allowance is related to the net deferred tax assets recorded in purchase accounting, the recognition of which
    is allocated to reduce goodwill.  The remaining portion reduced the current year provision for income taxes.

</TABLE>

                                    21
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                               AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
                                                        (Registrant)

August 31, 2005                                By:/s/ Arthur F. Weinbach
                                                  ------------------------------
                                                      Arthur F. Weinbach
                                                      Chairman and Chief
                                                      Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                             <C>                                       <C>

Signature                                                  Title                                 Date
---------                                                  -----                                 ----

/s/ Arthur F. Weinbach                           Chairman, Chief Executive                 August 31, 2005
--------------------------                       Officer and Director
   (Arthur F. Weinbach)                          (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Karen E. Dykstra                             Chief Financial Officer                   August 31, 2005
--------------------------                       (Principal Financial Officer
   (Karen E. Dykstra)                            and Principal Accounting
                                                 Officer)


/s/ Gregory D. Brenneman                         Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Gregory D. Brenneman)


/s/ Leslie A. Brun                               Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Leslie A. Brun)


/s/ Gary C. Butler                               Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Gary C. Butler)


/s/ Leon G. Cooperman                            Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Leon G. Cooperman)

                                    22
<PAGE>

Signature                                                  Title                                 Date
---------                                                  -----                                 ----

/s/ R. Glenn Hubbard                             Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (R. Glenn Hubbard)


/s/ John P. Jones                                Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (John P. Jones)


/s/ Ann Dibble Jordan                            Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Ann Dibble Jordan)


/s/ Harvey M. Krueger                            Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Harvey M. Krueger)


/s/ Frederic V. Malek                            Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Frederic V. Malek)


/s/ Henry Taub                                   Director                                  August 31, 2005
-------------------------
   (Henry Taub)

</TABLE>

                                    23
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
