<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10k_123103.txt
<DESCRIPTION>COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
<TEXT>


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                   ----------

                                    FORM 10-K

                        FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                     PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(Mark One)
|X|  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
                                            -----------------
                                       OR

| |  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13 OR  15(d)  OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
             For the transition period from            to
                                            ----------    ----------

                         Commission File Number 0-24429

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

               Delaware                               13-3728359
-------------------------------------     --------------------------------------
 (State or Other Jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
  Incorporation or Organization)

500 Glenpointe Centre West, Teaneck, New Jersey                       07666
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                            (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (201) 801-0233
                                                     --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None
                                                             ----

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                 Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

                 Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Preferred Share Purchase Rights
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  registrant:  (1) has filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing  requirements  for the past 90 days.  Yes |X|   No |  |

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form


<PAGE>


10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  |  |

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes |X|  No |  |

The  aggregate  market value of the  registrant's  voting shares of common stock
held by  non-affiliates  of the registrant on June 30, 2003, based on $24.39 per
share,  the last reported sale price on the NASDAQ National Market on that date,
was $1,515,361,188.

The number of shares of Class A common stock, $0.01 par value, of the registrant
outstanding as of March 5, 2004 was 64,580,041  shares.  There were no shares of
Class B common stock, $0.01 par value, of the registrant outstanding as of March
5, 2004.

The following  documents are incorporated by reference into the Annual Report on
Form 10-K: Portions of the registrant's  definitive Proxy Statement for its 2004
Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  are  incorporated by reference into Part III of
this Report.


<PAGE>


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                -----------------

                  Item                                                  Page
                  ----                                                  ----

PART I        1.  Business.............................................     4

              2.  Properties...........................................    30

              3.  Legal Proceedings....................................    33

              4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..    33

PART II       5.  Market for Our Common Equity and
                   Related Stockholder Matters.........................    34

              6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data.................    36

              7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                   Financial Condition and Results of Operations.......    38

              7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
                    Amount Market Risk.................................    50

              8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..........    51

              9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                   on Accounting and Financial Disclosure..............    51

              9A. Controls and Procedures..............................    51

PART III      10. Our Directors and Executive Officers.................    52

              11. Executive Compensation...............................    52

              12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners52
                   and Management and Related Stockholder Matters......    52

              13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.......    52

              14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services...............    52

PART IV       15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
                   and Reports on Form 8-K.............................    53

SIGNATURES.............................................................    54

EXHIBIT INDEX..........................................................    56

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.............................   F-1


                                       3


<PAGE>


                                     PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Overview
--------

      Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation is a leading provider of custom
information  technology  ("IT")  services  related  to IT  design,  development,
integration  and  maintenance  services  primarily  for Fortune  1000  companies
located  in  the  United  States  and  Europe.  Our  core  competencies  include
web-centric  applications,  data  warehousing,  component-based  development and
legacy and client-server  systems.  We provide the IT services we offer using an
integrated  on-site/offshore  business  model.  This  seamless  on-site/offshore
business model combines  technical and account  management teams located on-site
at the customer location and offshore at dedicated  development  centers located
in India and Ireland.

Industry Background
-------------------

      Many  companies  today  face  intense  competitive  pressure  and  rapidly
changing  market  dynamics.  In addition,  the evolution of  technology  and the
commercialization  of the Internet have  contributed  to the rapid change in the
business  environment.  In  response to these  challenges,  many  companies  are
focused on improving productivity, increasing service levels, lowering costs and
accelerating  delivery  times.  In order to achieve  these goals,  companies are
implementing a broad range of technologies, such as,

      o     e-business and e-commerce applications;

      o     data warehousing;

      o     customer and supply chain management; and

      o     middleware/enterprise application integration.

      These technologies facilitate faster, more responsive, lower-cost business
operations.  However,  their development,  integration and on-going  maintenance
present  major   challenges  and  require  a  large  number  of  highly  skilled
professionals trained in many diverse technologies.  In addition, companies also
require  additional  technical  resources to maintain,  enhance and  re-engineer
their core legacy IT systems and to address  application  maintenance  projects.
Increasingly,  companies are relying on custom IT solutions  providers,  such as
us, to provide these services.

      In order to respond  effectively  to a changing and  challenging  business
environment,  IT  departments of many  companies  have focused  increasingly  on
improving  returns  on IT  investments,  lowering  costs  and  accelerating  the
delivery of new systems and solutions.  To accomplish these objectives,  many IT
departments  have shifted all or a portion of their IT development,  integration
and  maintenance  requirements  to  outside  service  providers  operating  with
on-site/offshore business models.


                                       4


<PAGE>


      Global  demand for high  quality,  lower  cost IT  services  from  outside
providers has created a significant  opportunity  for IT service  providers that
can successfully  leverage the benefits of, and address the challenges in using,
an offshore  talent pool.  The effective  use of offshore  personnel can offer a
variety of benefits,  including lower costs, faster delivery of new IT solutions
and more flexible scheduling. Certain developing countries,  particularly India,
have a large talent pool of highly qualified  technical  professionals  that can
provide  high  quality  IT  services  at a lower  cost.  India is a leader in IT
services, and is regarded as having one of the largest pools of IT talent in the
world.  Historically,  IT  service  providers  have used  offshore  labor  pools
primarily to  supplement  the internal  staffing  needs of  customers.  However,
evolving  customer  demands  have led to the  increasing  acceptance  and use of
offshore  resources for higher  value-added  services.  These  services  include
application design, development,  integration and maintenance.  India's services
and  software  exports  have grown from $7.60  billion for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 2002 to $9.55  billion for the fiscal  year ended March 31,  2003,  as
estimated  by the  National  Association  of  Software  and  Services  Companies
(NASSCOM) in India. This represents a 26% growth over the prior period.  NASSCOM
has  projected  India's  services  and  software  exports  to  grow at a rate of
approximately 28% for fiscal year 2003-04.

      Using an offshore  workforce to provide  value-added  services  presents a
number of challenges to IT service  providers.  The offshore  implementation  of
value-added  IT services  requires  that IT service  providers  continually  and
effectively  attract,  train and  retain  highly  skilled  software  development
professionals  with the advanced  technical  skills  necessary to keep pace with
continuing  changes in information  technology,  evolving industry standards and
changing customer preferences. These skills are necessary to design, develop and
deploy high-quality  technology solutions in a cost-effective and timely manner.
In addition,  IT service  providers must have the  methodologies,  processes and
communications  capabilities  to enable  offshore  workforces to be successfully
integrated  with  on-site  personnel.  Service  providers  must also have strong
research  and  development  capabilities,   technology  competency  centers  and
relationship management skills in order to compete effectively.

Our Solution
------------

      We believe that we have developed an effective integrated on-site/offshore
business model,  and that this business model will be a critical  element of our
continued  growth.  To support this  business  model,  at December 31, 2003,  we
employed over 8,500 programmers globally.  We have also established  facilities,
technology and  communications  infrastructure  in order to support our business
model.  By basing  certain  technical  operations in India,  we have access to a
large pool of skilled, English-speaking IT professionals. These IT professionals
provide high quality services to our customers at costs significantly lower than
services sourced  exclusively in developed  countries.  Our strengths,  which we
believe differentiate us from other IT service providers, include the following:

      ESTABLISHED  AND  SCALABLE  PROPRIETARY   PROCESSES.   We  have  developed
proprietary   methodologies  for  integrating  on-site  and  offshore  teams  to
facilitate  cost-effective,  on-time  delivery of high-quality  projects.  These
methodologies  comprise our  proprietary  Q*VIEW software  engineering  process,
which is  available  to all on-site and  offshore  programmers.  We use this ISO
9001:2000  certified  process to define and implement  projects from the design,
development and deployment stages through to on-going  application  maintenance.
For most


                                       5


<PAGE>


projects,  Q*VIEW is used as part of an  initial  assessment  that  allows us to
define the scope and risks of the project and subdivide the project into smaller
phases with frequent  deliverables and feedback from customers.  We also use our
Q*VIEW process to detect,  mitigate and correct  possible quality defects and to
establish  appropriate  contingencies  for each  project.  In  order  to  ensure
implementation of the quality process,  we assign a quality  facilitator to each
project who reports to a centralized quality assurance and software  engineering
group.  This group performs,  on a sample basis,  quality  audits,  deliverables
verifications,  metrics  collection  and  analysis,  which  are used to  improve
processes and methodologies. These processes and methodologies have proven to be
scalable, as we have significantly  increased the number of offshore development
centers,  customers and projects. In addition,  all of our principal development
centers have been assessed by KPMG at Level 5 (the highest  possible  rating) of
both the Capability Maturity Model and the Capability Maturity Model Integration
of the Software Engineering  Institute at Carnegie Mellon University,  which are
widely   recognized   means  of  measuring   the  quality  and  maturity  of  an
organization's  software development and maintenance processes. In addition, all
of our principal development centers have been certified by the STQC Directorate
Ministry of Communications and Information Technology,  Government of India (the
accreditation  authority  for  companies  in India)  under  the  internationally
recognized BS 7799 Part 2:2002 Information  Security Standards,  a comprehensive
set of controls  comprising best practices in information  security and business
continuity  planning.  Our quality  management system has also been certified by
KPMG to International  Standard ISO 9001:2000 of the International  Organization
for  Standardization,   an  internationally   recognized  standard  for  quality
management  systems directed to the achievement of business  results,  including
satisfaction of customers and others.

      HIGHLY  SKILLED  WORKFORCE.  Our managers and senior  technical  personnel
provide in-depth  project  management  expertise to customers.  To maintain this
level of  expertise,  we have  placed  significant  emphasis on  recruiting  and
training our workforce of highly skilled professionals. We have over 600 project
managers  and senior  technical  personnel  around the world,  many of whom have
significant  work  experience in the United States and Europe.  We also maintain
programs  and  personnel  to  hire  and  train  the  best  available   technical
professionals in both legacy systems and emerging technologies.  We provide five
months of combined classroom and on-the-job training to newly hired programmers,
as well as additional  annual training programs designed to enhance the business
practices, tools, technology and consulting skills of our professional staff. We
were recently  assessed by KPMG at Level 5 (the highest  possible rating) of the
People Capability Maturity Model (P-CMM) version 2.0 of the Software Engineering
Institute  at  Carnegie  Mellon   University,   a  widely  recognized  means  of
implementing best current practices in fields such as human resources, knowledge
management,  and  organizational  development  which  improves our processes for
managing and developing our workforce and addressing critical people issues.

      RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT  AND  COMPETENCY   CENTERS.   We  have  project
experience and expertise across multiple  architectures  and  technologies,  and
have made significant  investments in our competency centers and in research and
development to keep abreast of the latest technology  developments.  Most of our
programmers are trained in multiple technologies and architectures. As a result,
we are  able to react to  customers'  needs  quickly  and  efficiently  redeploy
programmers  to different  technologies.  In order to develop and maintain  this
flexibility,  we have made a substantial  investment in our  competency  centers
where  the  experience   gained


                                       6


<PAGE>


from  particular  projects  and research  and  development  efforts is leveraged
across our entire organization.  In addition, through our investment in research
and  development  activities  and  the  continuing  education  of our  technical
personnel,  we enlarge our knowledge  base and develop the  necessary  skills to
keep pace with emerging technologies. We believe that our ability to work in new
technologies allows us to foster long-term  relationships by having the capacity
to continually address the needs of both existing and new customers.

      WELL-DEVELOPED  INFRASTRUCTURE.  Our extensive facilities,  technology and
communications infrastructure facilitate the seamless integration of our on-site
and offshore  workforces.  This is  accomplished  by permitting  team members in
different locations to access common project information and to work directly on
customer projects. This infrastructure allows for:

      o     rapid completion of projects;

      o     highest level of quality;

      o     off-peak use of customers' technological resources; and

      o     real-time  access to  project  information  by the  on-site  account
            manager or the customer.

      International  time differences enable our offshore teams located in India
to access a customer's  computing  facilities  located in the United  States and
Europe during off-peak hours.  This ability to perform  services during off-peak
hours  enables us to  complete  projects  more  rapidly and does not require our
customers to invest in duplicative hardware and software. In addition, for large
projects  with short time  frames,  our offshore  facilities  allow for parallel
processing  of  various  development  phases to  accelerate  delivery  time.  In
addition,  we can deliver services more rapidly than some competitors without an
offshore labor pool because our lower labor costs enable us to  cost-effectively
assign more professionals to a project.

Business Strategies
-------------------

      Our objectives are to maximize  stockholder value and enhance our position
as a  leading  provider  of  custom  IT  design,  development,  integration  and
maintenance  services.  We implement  the following  core  strategies to achieve
these objectives:

      FURTHER DEVELOP LONG-TERM CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS. We have strong long-term
strategic  relationships  with our customers and business  partners.  We seek to
establish long-term  relationships that present recurring revenue opportunities,
frequently  trying  to  establish   relationships   with  our  customers'  chief
information  officers,  or other IT decision makers, by offering a wide array of
cost-effective high quality services. Over 80% of our revenues in the year ended
December 31, 2003,  were derived from  customers who had been using our services
for one year or more. We also seek to leverage our experience  with a customer's
IT systems into new business opportunities. Knowledge of a customer's IT systems
gained during the performance of application  maintenance services, for example,
may provide us with a competitive  advantage in securing additional  development
and maintenance projects from that customer.


                                       7


<PAGE>


      EXPAND SERVICE OFFERINGS AND SOLUTIONS. We have several teams dedicated to
developing new, high value services.  These teams  collaborate with customers to
develop these services.  For example, we are currently  developing new solutions
for IT systems portfolio analysis,  program management,  technology architecture
and strategy,  systems  testing,  legacy  restoration  and digital  security and
forensics.  In  addition,  we invest in internal  research and  development  and
promote  knowledge  building  and sharing  across the  organization  in order to
promote the  development  of new services and solutions that we can offer to our
customers.  Furthermore,  we continue to enhance  our  capabilities  and service
offerings  in the  areas  of  Customer  Relationship  Management,  or  CRM,  and
Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP. We believe that the continued expansion of
our service offerings will reduce our reliance on any one technology  initiative
and will help foster  long-term  relationships  with customers by allowing us to
serve the needs of our customers better.

      ENHANCE  PROCESSES,   METHODOLOGIES  AND  PRODUCTIVITY  TOOLSETS.  We  are
committed to improving and enhancing our proprietary Q*VIEW software engineering
process and other methodologies and toolsets. In light of the rapid evolution of
technology,  we believe that continued investment in research and development is
critical to our continued  success.  We are constantly  designing and developing
additional productivity software tools to automate testing processes and improve
project estimation and risk assessment techniques. In addition, we use groupware
technology to share project  experience and best practice  methodologies  across
the organization with the objective of improving productivity.

      EXPAND DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL  GEOGRAPHIC  PRESENCE.  As we expand our
customer  base, we plan to open  additional  sales and marketing  offices in the
United  States and  internationally.  It is expected  that this  expansion  will
facilitate sales and service to existing and new customers.  We have established
sales and marketing offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas,  Minneapolis,  Phoenix,
Los Angeles,  San  Francisco  and Teaneck.  In addition,  we have been  pursuing
market opportunities in Europe through our offices in London, England, Limerick,
Ireland, Frankfurt, Germany, Zurich, Switzerland and Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

      PURSUE  SELECTIVE  STRATEGIC  ACQUISITIONS,  JOINT  VENTURES AND STRATEGIC
ALLIANCES.  We believe that  opportunities  exist in the  fragmented IT services
market to expand our business through selective  strategic  acquisitions,  joint
ventures and strategic alliances.  We believe that acquisition and joint venture
candidates may enable us to expand our geographic  presence and our capabilities
more rapidly, especially in the European market, as well as accelerate our entry
into areas of new  technology.  In addition,  through our working  relationships
with  independent  software  vendors  we  obtain  projects  using  the  detailed
knowledge we gain in connection with a joint development  process.  Finally,  we
will strategically partner with select IT service firms that offer complementary
services in order to best meet the requirements of our customers.


                                       8


<PAGE>


Services
--------

      We provide a broad range of IT services, including:

Service                                 Summary Description of Service Offerings
-------                                 ----------------------------------------

Application Design, Development,        Define customer requirements, write
Integration and Re-engineering          specifications and design, develop,
                                        test  and  integrate   software   across
                                        multiple  platforms  including  Internet
                                        technologies.     Modify     and    test
                                        applications   to  enable   systems   to
                                        function in new operating environments.

Application Maintenance                 Support some or all of a customer's
                                        applications ensuring that systems
                                        remain operational and responsive to
                                        changing user requirements, and to
                                        provide on-going enhancement as
                                        required by the customer.

      We use our Q*VIEW software  engineering  process, our on-site and offshore
business model and well-developed  technology and communications  infrastructure
to deliver these services.

      APPLICATION  DEVELOPMENT,  INTEGRATION  AND  RE-ENGINEERING  SERVICES.  We
follow either of two  alternative  approaches  to  application  development  and
integration:

      o     full  life-cycle  application   development,   in  which  we  assume
            start-to-finish responsibility for analysis, design, implementation,
            testing and integration of systems; or

      o     cooperative  development,   in  which  our  employees  work  with  a
            customer's  in-house  IT  personnel  to  jointly  analyze,   design,
            implement, test and integrate new systems.

      In both cases, our on-site team members work closely with the end-users of
the  application to define  requirements  and develop  specifications.  Detailed
design,  implementation  and testing  are  generally  performed  offshore at our
twelve IT development  centers located in India, as well our development centers
in Limerick,  Ireland and Phoenix,  Arizona. In addition, we maintain an on-site
presence at each customer  location in order to address evolving  customer needs
and resulting changes to the project.

      A key part of our application  development  and integration  offering is a
suite  of  services  to  help   organizations   build  and  integrate   business
applications  with the rest of their operations.  In this suite of services,  we
leverage  our  skills  in  business   application   development  and  enterprise
application  integration to build  sophisticated  business  applications  and to
integrate  these new  applications  and Web sites with client  server and legacy
systems. We build and deploy robust,  scalable and extensible  architectures for
use in a wide range of industries.  We maintain competency centers  specializing
in Microsoft,  IBM and Sun  technologies,  among others,  in order


                                       9


<PAGE>


to be able to provide  application  development  and  integration  services to a
broad spectrum of customers.

      Our  re-engineering  service  offerings  assist  customers  migrating from
systems based on legacy  computing  environments  to newer,  open  systems-based
platforms  and  client/server  architectures,  often  in  response  to the  more
stringent  demands of business.  Our  re-engineering  tools automate many of the
processes required to implement advanced client/server technologies.  We believe
that  this  automation  substantially  reduces  the  time  and  cost to  perform
re-engineering services,  savings that benefit both us and our customers.  These
tools also enable us to perform  source code  analysis and to  re-design  target
databases  and  convert  certain  programming  languages.   If  necessary,   our
programmers also help customers re-design and convert user interfaces.

      APPLICATION  MAINTENANCE SERVICES. We provide services to help ensure that
a customer's core operational  systems are free of defects and responsive to the
customer's  changing  needs.  As part  of this  process,  we are  often  able to
introduce  product  and  process  enhancements  and  improve  service  levels to
customers requesting modifications and on-going support.

      Our on-site/offshore business model enables us to provide a range of rapid
response and cost-effective support services to our customers.  Our on-site team
members often provide help-desk services at the customer's facility.  These team
members  typically carry pagers in the event of an emergency service request and
are available to quickly resolve customer problems from remote locations. In the
case of more complex maintenance services, including modifications, enhancements
and  documentation,  which typically have longer  turnaround times, we take full
advantage of our offshore  resources to develop solutions more  cost-effectively
than would be possible relying on higher cost local professionals.  The services
provided by our offshore team members are delivered to customers using satellite
and fiber-optic telecommunications.

      As part of our application  maintenance  services,  we assist customers in
renovating  their  core  systems  to  meet  the  requirements   imposed  by  new
regulations,  new standards or other external events. These services include, or
have  previously  included,  Year  2000  compliance,   Eurocurrency  compliance,
decimalization  within the securities  industry and  compliance  with the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act for the healthcare industry.

      Application  maintenance service contracts are usually long term in nature
and, at times, can include an element of application development.

      We seek to anticipate the operational environment of customer's IT systems
as we design and develop  such  systems.  We also offer  diagnostic  services to
customers  to assist them in  identifying  shortcomings  in their IT systems and
optimizing the performance of their systems.

Sales and Marketing
-------------------

      We market and sell our services  directly through our professional  staff,
senior  management  and direct  sales  personnel  operating  out of our  Teaneck
headquarters and our business development offices in Atlanta,  Chicago,  Dallas,
Minneapolis,  Phoenix, Los Angeles, San Francisco,  Limerick, London, Amsterdam,
Frankfurt and Zurich. In 2003, we managed our business and results of operations
on a geographic  basis.  At December 31, 2003,  we had


                                       10


<PAGE>


approximately  29 direct sales persons and 111 account  managers.  The sales and
marketing  group works with our technical team as the sales process moves closer
to the customer's selection of an IT service provider. The duration of the sales
process varies depending on the type of service,  ranging from approximately two
months to over one year. The account  manager or sales  executive works with the
technical team to:

      o     define the scope, deliverables, assumptions and execution strategies
            for a proposed project;

      o     develop project estimates;

      o     prepare pricing and margin analyses; and

      o     finalize sales proposals.

      Management reviews and approves proposals, which are then presented to the
prospective customer. Our sales and account management personnel remain actively
involved in the project  through the  execution  phase.  We focus our  marketing
efforts on businesses with intensive information processing needs. We maintain a
prospect/customer  database that is continuously updated and used throughout the
sales cycle from prospect  qualification to close. As a result of this marketing
system, we pre-qualify sales opportunities, and direct sales representatives are
able to  minimize  the  time  spent  on  prospect  qualification.  In  addition,
substantial  emphasis is placed on customer  retention and expansion of services
provided to existing  customers.  In this regard,  our account  managers play an
important  marketing  role by  leveraging  their ongoing  relationship  with the
customer to identify  opportunities to expand and diversify the type of services
provided to that customer.

Customers
---------

      The number of customers served by us has increased significantly in recent
years.  At the end of the years ended December 31, 2001,  2002 and 2003, we were
providing   services  to  100  customers,   115  customers  and  153  customers,
respectively.

      For the year ended  December  31, 2003,  we derived our revenues  from the
following industries:  46% from financial related services,  22% from healthcare
services, 15% from retail,  manufacturing and logistics and 10% from information
services.  The remaining  portions of our revenues  were derived from  strategic
alliances  and other  sources.  We dedicate a number of our employees to each of
the major industries we service to better serve our customers.

      We provide services either on a time-and-material basis or on the basis of
an agreed fixed bid.  The volume of work  performed  for  specific  customers is
likely to vary from year to year, and a significant customer in one year may not
use our services in a subsequent  year.  Approximately  10.1% of our revenues in
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 were generated from JP Morgan Chase.


                                       11


<PAGE>


      Our customers include:

  ACNielsen Corporation                   First Data Corporation
  ADP, Incorporated                       IMS Health Incorporated ("IMS Health")
  Brinker International, Incorporated     JP Morgan Chase
  CCC Information Services Incorporated   Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
  Computer Sciences Corporation           Royal & SunAlliance USA
  The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation        United Healthcare

      Presented  in  the  table  below  is  additional   information  about  our
customers.

                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                      2001      2002     2003
                                                      ----      ----     ----
Percent  of  revenues  from top five  customers,
  including IMS Health............................      35%       38%      36%
Percent  of  revenues  from  top ten  customers,
  including IMS Health............................      53%       54%      54%
Percent of revenues from IMS Health...............      11%        9%       6%
Application  development  services  as a percent
  of revenues.....................................      48%       43%      41%
Application  maintenance  services  as a percent
  of revenues.....................................      52%       57%      59%
Revenues under fixed-bid  contracts as a percent
  of revenues.....................................      24%       25%      26%

Competition
-----------

      The intensely  competitive IT services  market  includes a large number of
participants and is subject to rapid change.  This market includes  participants
from a variety of market segments, including:

      o     systems integration firms;

      o     contract programming companies;

      o     application software companies;

      o     Internet solutions providers;

      o     the professional  services groups of computer  equipment  companies;
            and

      o     facilities management and outsourcing companies.

      Our most direct competitors  include,  among others,  Infosys,  Inc., Tata
Consultancy   Services   and   WIPRO   Ltd.,   which   utilize   an   integrated
on-site/offshore  business model  comparable to that used by us. We also compete
with large IT service providers with greater resources,  such as Accenture Ltd.,
Electronic Data Systems Corporation and IBM Global Services,  who have announced
their  intentions  to develop  more  offshore  capabilities  to lower their cost
structure.  In addition, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the
various geographic markets in which we operate.


                                       12


<PAGE>


      Many of our competitors have significantly  greater  financial,  technical
and marketing  resources and greater name  recognition than we do. The principal
competitive factors affecting the markets for our services include:

      o     performance and reliability;

      o     quality of technical support, training and services;

      o     responsiveness to customer needs;

      o     reputation, experience and financial stability; and

      o     competitive pricing of services.

      We rely on the following to compete effectively:

      o     a well developed recruiting, training and retention model;

      o     a successful service delivery model;

      o     a broad referral base;

      o     continual investment in process improvement and knowledge capture;

      o     investment in research and development;

      o     continued  focus on  responsiveness  to customer  needs,  quality of
            services, competitive prices; and

      o     project management capabilities and technical expertise.

Intellectual Property
---------------------

      Our  intellectual  property  rights  are  important  to our  business.  We
presently  hold no  patents  or  registered  copyrights.  Instead,  we rely on a
combination  of  intellectual  property  laws,  trade  secrets,  confidentiality
procedures and contractual  provisions to protect our intellectual  property. We
require our employees,  independent contractors,  vendors and customers to enter
into  written   confidentiality   agreements  upon  the  commencement  of  their
relationships with us. These agreements  generally provide that any confidential
or  proprietary   information   developed  by  us  or  on  our  behalf  be  kept
confidential.  In addition,  when we disclose any  confidential  or  proprietary
information to third parties,  we routinely require those third parties to agree
in writing to keep that information confidential.

      A portion of our business involves the development for customers of highly
complex  information  technology  software  applications  and  other  technology
deliverables.  This intellectual  property includes written  specifications  and
documentation in connection with specific  customer  engagements.  Our customers
usually own the intellectual property in the software we develop for them.


                                       13


<PAGE>


      Pursuant  to a  license  agreement  with IMS  Health,  all  rights  to the
"Cognizant" name and certain related trade and service marks were transferred to
us in July 1998. As of December 31, 2003, we held three trademark  registrations
in the United States and had four pending  trademark  applications  in India. In
addition, as of December 31, 2003, we held 230 other trademark  registrations in
56 other countries.

Employees
---------

      At  December  31,  2003,  we  employed  approximately  2,150  persons on a
full-time basis in various locations  throughout North America. We also employed
approximately 320 persons on a full-time basis in various  locations  throughout
Europe,  principally in the United Kingdom and Ireland,  and approximately 6,770
persons on a full-time  basis in our offshore IT  development  centers in India.
None of our employees  are subject to a collective  bargaining  arrangement.  We
consider our relations with our employees to be good.

      Our future  success  depends  to a  significant  extent on our  ability to
attract,  train and retain  highly  skilled  IT  development  professionals.  In
particular,  we need to attract, train and retain project managers,  programmers
and other senior  technical  personnel.  We believe  there is a shortage of, and
significant  competition for, IT development  professionals in the United States
and in India with the  advanced  technological  skills  necessary to perform the
services  we offer.  We have an active  recruitment  program in India,  and have
developed  a  recruiting   system  and  database  that   facilitates  the  rapid
identification of skilled candidates.  During the course of the year, we conduct
extensive recruiting efforts at premier colleges and technical schools in India.
We evaluate candidates based on academic  performance,  the results of a written
aptitude test measuring  problem-solving  skills and a technical  interview.  In
addition,  we have an active lateral recruiting program. A substantial  majority
of the personnel on most on-site  teams and virtually all the personnel  staffed
on offshore teams is comprised of Indian nationals.

      Our senior project managers are hired from leading consulting firms in the
United States and India. Our senior  management and most of our project managers
have  experience  working in the United  States and Europe.  This  enhances  our
ability to attract and retain other  professionals with experience in the United
States. We have also adopted a career and education management program to define
our  employees'  objectives and career plans.  We have  implemented an intensive
orientation  and  training  program to  introduce  new  employees  to the Q*VIEW
software engineering process, our other technologies and our services.


                                       14


<PAGE>


Our Executive Officers
----------------------

      The following table identifies our current executive officers:

                                     Capacities in                 In Current
Name                           Age   Which Served                Position Since
----                           ---   -------------               --------------

Lakshmi Narayanan(1)....        51   President and Chief              2003
                                     Executive Officer

Francisco D'Souza(2)....        35   Chief Operating Officer          2003

Gordon Coburn(3)........        40   Executive Vice  President,       2003
                                     Chief Financial Officer,
                                     Treasurer and Secretary

Ramakrishnan                         Executive Vice President         2004
Chandrasekaran(4).......        47   & Managing Director

(1)   Lakshmi  Narayanan was elected Chief  Executive  Officer in December 2003.
      Mr. Narayanan continues to serve as our President,  a position he has held
      since  his  election  in March  1998.  Mr.  Narayanan  joined  our  Indian
      subsidiary as Chief Technology  Officer in 1994 and was elected  President
      of such  subsidiary on January 1, 1996.  Prior to joining us, from 1975 to
      1994, Mr. Narayanan was the regional head of Tata Consultancy  Services, a
      large  consulting  and software  services  company  located in India.  Mr.
      Narayanan holds a Bachelor of Science  degree,  a Master of Science degree
      and a Master of Business  Administration  degree from the Indian Institute
      of Science.

(2)   Francisco  D'Souza was elected Chief  Operating  Officer in December 2003.
      Prior to that,  from  November  1999 to  December  2003,  he served as our
      Senior Vice President, North American Operations and Business Development.
      From March 1998 to November 1999, he served as our Vice  President,  North
      American  Operations and Business  Development  and as our  Director-North
      American Operations and Business Development from June 1997 to March 1998.
      From January 1996 to June 1997, Mr. D'Souza was engaged as our consultant.
      From February 1995 to December  1995,  Mr. D'Souza was employed as Product
      Manager at Pilot Software. Between 1992 and 1995, Mr. D'Souza held various
      marketing,  business development and technology  management positions as a
      Management Associate at The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation. While working at
      The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation,  Mr.  D'Souza was part of the team that
      established the software development and maintenance business conducted by
      us. Mr.  D'Souza holds a Bachelor of Business  Administration  degree from
      the University of East Asia and a Master of Business Administration degree
      from Carnegie-Mellon University.

(3)   Gordon Coburn was elected  Executive  Vice President in December 2003. Mr.
      Coburn  continues to serve as our Chief Financial  Officer,  Treasurer and
      Secretary,  positions he has held since his  election in March 1998.  From
      November 1999 to December 2003, he


                                       15


<PAGE>


      served as our Senior Vice President.  He previously was our Vice President
      from 1996 to November 1999.  Mr. Coburn served as Senior  Director - Group
      Finance & Operations  for  Cognizant  Corporation  from  November  1996 to
      December  1997.  From 1990 to October 1996,  Mr. Coburn held key financial
      positions  with  The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation.  Mr.  Coburn  holds a
      Bachelor of Arts degree from Wesleyan  University and a Master of Business
      Administration degree from the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College.

(4)   Ramakrishnan  Chandrasekaran  was elected  Executive  Vice  President  and
      Managing  Director in January 2004.  Prior to that,  from November 1999 to
      January 2004, he served as our Senior Vice President  responsible  for the
      ISV relationships,  key alliances,  capacity growth,  process initiatives,
      business development and offshore delivery.  Mr.  Chandrasekaran joined us
      as Assistant Vice President in December 1994,  before getting  promoted to
      Vice President in January 1997. Mr.  Chandrasekaran has more than 20 years
      of experience  working in the IT services  industry.  Prior to joining us,
      Mr.   Chandrasekaran   worked   with  Tata   Consultancy   Services.   Mr.
      Chandrasekaran  holds  a  Mechanical  Engineering  degree  and  Master  of
      Business Administration degree from the Indian Institute of Management.

      None of our executive  officers is related to any other executive  officer
or to any of our Directors.  Our executive  officers are elected annually by the
Board of  Directors  and serve  until  their  successors  are duly  elected  and
qualified.

Corporate History
-----------------

      We began our IT development  and  maintenance  services  business in early
1994,  as an in-house  technology  development  center for The Dun &  Bradstreet
Corporation  and its  operating  units.  In 1996,  we, along with certain  other
entities,  were  spun-off  from The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation  to form a new
company, Cognizant Corporation. On June 24, 1998, we completed an initial public
offering of our Class A common stock.  On June 30, 1998, a majority  interest in
us, and certain other entities were spun-off from Cognizant  Corporation to form
IMS  Health.  Subsequently,  Cognizant  Corporation  was renamed  Nielsen  Media
Research,  Incorporated.  At December  31,  2002,  IMS Health owned 55.3% of our
outstanding stock  (representing all of our Class B common stock) and held 92.5%
of the combined voting power of our common stock.

      On  January  30,  2003,  we filed a  tender  offer  in  which  IMS  Health
stockholders  could  exchange  IMS  Health  shares  held by them for our Class B
common stock held by IMS Health.

      On February 13,  2003,  IMS Health  distributed  all of our Class B common
stock that IMS Health owned (a total of 33,872,700  shares) in an exchange offer
to its stockholders.  IMS Health  distributed 0.927 shares of our Class B common
stock to its  stockholders  for  every one share of IMS  Health's  common  stock
tendered. There was no impact on the number of our total shares outstanding upon
the completion of the exchange offer.

      As  of  February  21,  2003,  pursuant  to  our  Restated  Certificate  of
Incorporation, all of the shares of Class B common stock automatically converted
into shares of Class A common stock.  According to our Restated  Certificate  of
Incorporation, if at any time the outstanding shares of


                                       16


<PAGE>


our Class B common  stock  ceased  to  represent  at least  35% of the  economic
ownership represented by the aggregate number of shares of our common stock then
outstanding,  each share of our Class B common stock shall automatically convert
into one share of Class A common stock.  This automatic  conversion  occurred on
February 21, 2003 based on share numbers  received by us from our transfer agent
(American Stock Transfer and Trust Company) as of the close of business February
20, 2003,  which indicated that the Class B common stock  represented  less than
35% ownership  represented by the aggregate number of shares of our common stock
then outstanding.  Accordingly,  as of February 21, 2003, there are no shares of
Class B common stock outstanding.

      On February 11,  2000,  the Board of  Directors  declared a 2-for-1  stock
split effected by a 100% dividend  payable on March 16, 2000 to  stockholders of
record on March 2, 2000.

      On May 23, 2000,  our  stockholders  approved an increase in the number of
authorized Class B common stock from 15,000,000 shares to 25,000,000 shares.

      On March 5, 2003,  the Board of Directors  declared a 3-for-1  stock split
effected by a 200% stock dividend  payable on April 1, 2003 to  stockholders  of
record  on  March  19,  2003.  The  stock  splits  have  been  reflected  in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements, and all applicable references as
to the  number  of  common  shares  and per  share  information  were  restated.
Appropriate  adjustments  have been made in the  exercise  and  number of shares
subject to stock options.  Stockholder  equity accounts were restated to reflect
the  reclassification  of an amount  equal to the par value of the  increase  in
issued common shares from the additional  paid-in-capital  account to the common
stock accounts.

Acquisitions
------------

      On April 2, 2003,  we completed  the  acquisition  of Aces  International,
Inc., a company  specializing  in Customer  Relationship  Management  solutions,
serving clients in the  healthcare,  financial  services and  telecommunications
verticals.  This acquisition is designed to help us lay a strong  foundation for
growth in the Customer Relationship Management solutions.

      On November 24, 2003, we completed the acquisition of Infopulse  Nederland
B.V.  ("Infopulse"),  a  Netherlands-based  IT services firm specializing in the
banking and financial services industry. The acquisition is designed to allow us
to better serve customers in the Benelux region by adding local client partners,
industry expertise, and local language capability.

Available Information
---------------------

      We make  available the following  public  filings with the  Securities and
Exchange  Commission  (the  "SEC")  free  of  charge  through  our  Web  site at
www.cognizant.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file
such material with, or furnishes such material to, the SEC:

      o     our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and any amendments thereto;

      o     our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any amendments thereto; and


                                       17


<PAGE>


      o     our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto.

      In  addition,  we will make  available  our code of  business  conduct and
ethics free of charge through our Web site. We intend to disclose any amendments
to, or waivers from,  our code of business  conduct and ethics that are required
to be publicly  disclosed  pursuant to rules of the SEC and the Nasdaq  National
Market by filing such  amendment  or waiver  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission and posting it on our Web site.

      No information on our Internet Web site is  incorporated by reference into
this Form 10-K or any other public filing made by us with the SEC.

Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results
-------------------------------------------------

      IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS OCCUR,  OUR BUSINESS,  FINANCIAL  CONDITION,
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY  ADVERSELY  AFFECTED.  IN
SUCH CASE, THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE.

A SUBSTANTIAL  PORTION OF OUR ASSETS AND  OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN INDIA AND WE
ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATORY, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL UNCERTAINTIES IN INDIA.

      We intend to  continue to develop and expand our  offshore  facilities  in
India where, as of December 31, 2003, a majority of our technical  professionals
were located.  While wage costs are lower in India than in the United States and
other developed countries for comparably skilled  professionals,  wages in India
are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States, which could result in
our incurring increased costs for technical  professionals and reduced operating
margins.  In  addition,  there  is  intense  competition  in India  for  skilled
technical professionals and we expect that competition to increase.

      India  has  also  experienced  civil  unrest  and  terrorism  and has been
involved in conflicts with neighboring  countries.  In recent years,  there have
been  military  confrontations  between India and Pakistan that have occurred in
the region of Kashmir and along the  Indian-Pakistan  border.  The potential for
hostilities between the two countries has been high in light of tensions related
to recent terrorist  incidents in India and the unsettled nature of the regional
geopolitical  environment,  including  events in and related to Afghanistan.  If
India  were to  become  engaged  in  armed  hostilities,  particularly  if these
hostilities  were protracted or involved the threat of or use of weapons of mass
destruction, our operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition,
U.S.  companies  may  decline  to  contract  with us for  services  in  light of
international  terrorist  incidents or armed hostilities even where India is not
involved  because  of more  generalized  concerns  about  relying  on a  service
provider utilizing international resources.

      In the past,  the Indian  economy  has  experienced  many of the  problems
confronting  the economies of developing  countries,  including high  inflation,
erratic gross  domestic  product growth and shortages of foreign  exchange.  The
Indian government has exercised and continues to exercise significant  influence
over  many  aspects  of  the  Indian  economy,  and  Indian  government  actions
concerning  the economy could have a material  adverse  effect on private sector
entities,  including  us.  In the  past,  the  Indian  government  has  provided
significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory  restrictions in order
to encourage foreign  investment in


                                       18


<PAGE>


specified sectors of the economy,  including the software  development  services
industry.  Programs that have benefited us include,  among others, tax holidays,
liberalized   import  and  export  duties  and  preferential  rules  on  foreign
investment and repatriation. Notwithstanding these benefits, India's central and
state  governments  remain  significantly  involved  in the  Indian  economy  as
regulators.  The  elimination  of any of the  benefits  realized  by us from our
Indian operations could have a material adverse effect on our business,  results
of operations and financial condition.

GENERAL ELECTIONS ARE DECLARED TO TAKE PLACE IN INDIA IN APRIL 2004. THE OUTCOME
OF THE ELECTIONS WILL DETERMINE THE NEW GOVERNMENT,  WHICH MAY BE A COALITION OF
DIFFERENT  PARTIES  THAN  EXISTING.  THE APPROACH OF THE NEW  GOVERNMENT  ON THE
ECONOMIC REFORMS, IF DIFFERENT,  MAY HAVE AN IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. WE
CANNOT  ASSURE THE  POSITIVE  TREND IN CURRENT  REFORMS  MAY  CONTINUE  AND SUCH
CHANGES MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIALS.

      Since  1991,  successive  governments  in India have  pursued  policies of
economic reform,  including  significantly  relaxing restrictions on the private
sector. The current Indian government, formed in October 1999, is a coalition of
several parties, including some small regional parties. The withdrawal of one or
more of these  parties  from the current  coalition  could  result in  political
instability. Political instability or further changes in the government in India
could  delay the reform of the Indian  economy  and  adversely  affect  economic
conditions  in India  generally,  which could impact our  financial  results and
prospects.  The current  Indian  government has generally  pursued  policies and
taken initiatives that support the continued  economic reform policies that have
been pursued by previous  governments.  These economic reform policies have also
been advocated by the opposition  parties. We cannot be assured,  however,  that
these policies and initiatives will continue in the future. The rate of economic
reform  could  change,  and  specific  laws and  policies  affecting  technology
companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and other matters affecting our
business could change as well. A significant  change in India's  economic reform
and   deregulation   policies  could  adversely  affect  business  and  economic
conditions in India generally and our business in particular.

      No  assurance  can be given  that we will  not be  adversely  affected  by
changes in  inflation,  interest  rates,  taxation,  social  stability  or other
political,  economic or  diplomatic  developments  in or affecting  India in the
future.

HOSTILITIES  BETWEEN  THE  UNITED  STATES AND IRAQ  COULD  ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR
BUSINESS,  FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND IMPAIR OUR ABILITY
TO SERVICE OUR CUSTOMERS.

      Tensions  between  the United  States and Iraq have  escalated  due to the
United States invasion of and ongoing conflict with Iraq.  Hostilities involving
the United States, or military or travel disruptions and restrictions  affecting
our employees,  could materially adversely affect our operations and our ability
to service our  customers.  As of December 31, 2003, a majority of our technical
professionals  were  located in India,  and the vast  majority of our  technical
professionals  in the United States and Europe are Indian nationals who are able
to work in the United  States and Europe only because  they hold current  visas.
Travel  restrictions  could cause


                                       19


<PAGE>


us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our
ability to retain the skilled  professionals  we need for our  operations in the
United States and Europe.

OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO MANY UNCERTAINTIES.

      Revenues from customers outside North America represented 12%, 13% and 15%
of our  revenues  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002  and  2001,
respectively.  We anticipate that revenues from customers  outside North America
will  continue  to  account  for a  material  portion  of  our  revenues  in the
foreseeable  future and may  increase as we expand our  international  presence,
particularly in Europe. In addition, a substantial majority of our employees and
almost all of our IT development  centers are located in India. As a result,  we
may be subject to risks  associated  with  international  operations,  including
risks  associated with foreign  currency  exchange rate  fluctuations  and risks
associated  with the  application  and imposition of protective  legislation and
regulations  relating to import or export or  otherwise  resulting  from foreign
policy or the variability of foreign economic  conditions.  To date, we have not
engaged in any hedging  transactions  to mitigate our risks relating to exchange
rate  fluctuations.  Additional risks associated with  international  operations
include difficulties in enforcing  intellectual  property rights, the burdens of
complying  with  a  wide  variety  of  foreign  laws,  potentially  adverse  tax
consequences,  tariffs,  quotas and other barriers and potential difficulties in
collecting accounts  receivable.  There can be no assurance that these and other
factors  will not have a material  adverse  effect on our  business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION FROM OTHER IT SERVICE PROVIDERS.

      The intensely competitive IT professional services market includes a large
number of  participants  and is subject to rapid  change.  This market  includes
participants from a variety of market segments, including:

      o     systems integration firms;

      o     contract programming companies;

      o     application software companies;

      o     Internet solutions providers;

      o     the professional  services groups of computer  equipment  companies;
            and

      o     facilities management and outsourcing companies.

      The market also includes numerous smaller local competitors in the various
geographic  markets  in which we  operate.  Our direct  competitors  who use the
on-site/offshore  business  model include,  among others,  Infosys,  Inc.,  Tata
Consultancy  Services and WIPRO Ltd. In addition,  many of our competitors  have
significantly  greater financial,  technical and marketing resources and greater
name recognition than we do. Some of these larger competitors, such as Accenture
Ltd.,  Electronic  Data  Systems  Corporation  and  IBM  Global  Services,  have
announced  their  intentions  to develop their  offshore  operations in order to
lower their cost structure. We


                                       20


<PAGE>


cannot  assure  you  that  we will be able to  sustain  our  current  levels  of
profitability  or growth as competitive  pressures,  including  competition  for
skilled IT  development  professionals  and pricing  pressure  from  competitors
employing an on-site/offshore business model, increase.

OUR  BUSINESS  WILL  SUFFER IF WE FAIL TO DEVELOP NEW  SERVICES  AND ENHANCE OUR
EXISTING SERVICES IN ORDER TO KEEP PACE WITH THE RAPIDLY EVOLVING  TECHNOLOGICAL
ENVIRONMENT.

      The IT services market is  characterized  by rapid  technological  change,
evolving industry standards,  changing customer  preferences and new product and
service introductions.  Our future success will depend on our ability to develop
solutions that keep pace with changes in the IT services market. There can be no
assurance  that we will be  successful  in  developing  new services  addressing
evolving  technologies on a timely or cost-effective basis or, if these services
are developed, that we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, there
can be no assurance that products,  services or technologies developed by others
will not render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Our failure to address
these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.

      Our  ability  to remain  competitive  will also  depend on our  ability to
design and  implement,  in a timely and  cost-effective  manner,  solutions  for
customers  moving  from the  mainframe  environment  to  client/server  or other
advanced  architectures.  Our  failure to design and  implement  solutions  in a
timely and  cost-effective  manner could have a material  adverse  effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

COMPETITION FOR HIGHLY SKILLED TECHNICAL PERSONNEL IS INTENSE AND THE SUCCESS OF
OUR  BUSINESS  DEPENDS  ON OUR  ABILITY TO ATTRACT  AND  RETAIN  HIGHLY  SKILLED
PROFESSIONALS.

      Our future  success will depend to a significant  extent on our ability to
attract,  train and retain  highly  skilled  IT  development  professionals.  In
particular,  we need to attract, train and retain project managers, IT engineers
and other senior  technical  personnel.  We believe  there is a shortage of, and
significant  competition for, IT development  professionals in the United States
and India with the  advanced  technological  skills  necessary  to  perform  the
services we offer. We have  subcontracted,  to a limited extent in the past, and
may do so in the  future,  with  other  service  providers  in order to meet our
obligations  to our  customers.  Our  ability  to  maintain  and renew  existing
engagements  and obtain new business will depend,  in large part, on our ability
to attract,  train and retain technical personnel with the skills that keep pace
with continuing changes in information  technology,  evolving industry standards
and changing customer preferences. Further, we must train and manage our growing
work  force,  requiring  an  increase  in the level of  responsibility  for both
existing  and new  management  personnel.  There  can be no  assurance  that the
management  skills and  systems  currently  in place will be adequate or that we
will be able to train and assimilate new employees successfully.  Our failure to
attract,  train and  retain  current or future  employees  could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

OUR GROWTH MAY BE HINDERED BY IMMIGRATION RESTRICTIONS.

      Our future  success  will  depend on our  ability  to  attract  and retain
employees  with  technical  and  project   management   skills  from  developing
countries,  especially  India.  The vast


                                       21


<PAGE>


majority of our IT  professionals  in the United States and in Europe are Indian
nationals.  The ability of Indian nationals to work in the United States depends
on their ability and our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits.

      The H-1 B visa  classification  enables U.S.  employers to hire  qualified
foreign workers in positions which require an education at least equal to a U.S.
Baccalaureate Degree in specialty occupations such as IT systems engineering and
systems analysis.  The H-1 B visa usually permits an individual to work and live
in the United  States  for a period of up to six years.  There is a limit on the
number of new H-1 B petitions that U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services
("CIS," one of the  successor  agencies to the  Immigration  and  Naturalization
Service)  may approve in any  federal  fiscal  year,  and in years in which this
limit is  reached,  we may be unable to obtain  H-1 B visas  necessary  to bring
foreign  employees to the United States. In the current federal fiscal year, the
limit is 65,000.  This cap has been reached as of February  17, 2004.  New H-1 B
petitions may not be filed until April 1, 2004, and these  petitions must be for
positions  beginning no earlier than October 1, 2004.  However, as a part of our
advanced planning process, we have sufficient  employees  visa-ready to meet our
anticipated  business growth in the current year. In addition,  there are strict
labor regulations associated with the H-1 B visa classification. Higher users of
the H-1 B visa program are often subject to  investigations by the Wage and Hour
Division of the U.S.  Department of Labor.  A finding by the U.S.  Department of
Labor  of  willful  or  substantial  failure  by  us  to  comply  with  existing
regulations on the H-1 B classification may result in a bar on future use of the
H-1 B program.

      We also  regularly  transfer  employees of our  subsidiary in India to the
United  States  to work on  projects  and at  client  sites,  using the L-1 visa
classification.  The L-1  visa  allows  companies  abroad  to  transfer  certain
managers, executives and employees with specialized company knowledge to related
U.S. companies such as a parent, subsidiary,  affiliate, joint venture or branch
office.  We have an  approved  "Blanket L Program,"  under  which the  corporate
relationships of our transferring and receiving  entities have been pre-approved
by the CIS, thus enabling  individual L-1 applications to be presented  directly
to a U.S.  consular post abroad rather than undergoing the pre-approval  process
in the  United  States.  While  there  have been no major  changes in the law or
regulations  governing the L-1  categories,  both the U.S.  consular  posts that
review initial L-1 applications and the CIS office, which adjudicates extensions
of L-1 status, have become more restrictive with respect to this category in the
recent past. As a result,  the rate of refusals of initial L-1  applications and
of  extension  denials  has  increased.  In  addition,  even where L-1 visas are
ultimately  granted and issued,  security  measures  undertaken by U.S. consular
posts around the world have caused major delays in visa issuances. Our inability
to bring qualified  technical  personnel into the United States to staff on-site
customer locations would have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.

      In the past year,  the press has covered  allegations  of abuse of the L-1
visa category by certain  companies.  The companies are alleged to have used the
L-1  category to bring  workers into the U.S. who then  displace  U.S.  workers.
Because of this press  attention,  Congress  has held  hearings  on the L-1 visa
category  and  legislators  have  introduced  bills to  change or  restrict  the
standards for the L-1 category. While none of the proposed legislation has moved
out of the  introductory  stage,  it is possible that new  restrictions on the L
visa category will become law. If


                                       22


<PAGE>


such  restrictive  proposals  become law, this could impair our ability to staff
our projects in the U.S. with resources from our entities abroad.

      We also  process  immigrant  visas  for  lawful  permanent  residence  for
employees to fill  positions for which there are no able,  willing and qualified
U.S.  workers  available to fill the  positions.  Compliance  with existing U.S.
immigration and labor laws, or changes in those laws making it more difficult to
hire foreign nationals or limiting our ability to successfully  obtain permanent
residence for our foreign  employees in the United  States,  could require us to
incur  additional  unexpected  labor costs and  expenses or could  restrain  our
ability to retain the skilled  professionals  we need for our  operations in the
United States.  Any of these restrictions or limitations on our hiring practices
could have a material adverse effect on our business,  results of operations and
financial condition.

      In addition to immigration  restrictions in the United States,  there have
recently been changes to work permit legislation in the United Kingdom, where we
have experienced significant growth. Under the new regulations,  in order for us
to transfer our employees to the United  Kingdom,  either from the United States
or from India, we must demonstrate that the employee had been employed by us for
at least six months  prior to the  transfer.  These  restrictions  restrain  our
ability to add the skilled  professionals  we need for our operations in Europe,
and could have an adverse  affect on our  international  strategy  to expand our
presence in Europe. As a result,  the changes to work permit  legislation in the
United Kingdom could have a material adverse effect on our business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

      Immigration and work permit laws and regulations in the United States, the
United Kingdom and other countries is subject to legislative and  administrative
changes as well as changes in the  application  of  standards  and  enforcement.
Immigration and work permit laws and regulation can be significantly affected by
political forces and levels of economic  activity.  Our international  expansion
strategy and our business,  results of operations and financial condition may be
materially adversely affected if changes in immigration and work permit laws and
regulations  or the  administration  or  enforcement of such laws or regulations
impairs our ability to staff projects with IT professionals who are not citizens
of the country where the work is to be performed.

POTENTIAL  ANTI-OUTSOURCING  LEGISLATION  COULD  ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR BUSINESS,
FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO SERVICE
OUR CUSTOMERS.

      In the past few months,  the issue of  outsourcing  of services  abroad by
American  companies  has become a topic of  political  discussion  in the United
States.  Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by U.S. companies
are  under  discussion  in  Congress  and in as many as  one-half  of the  state
legislatures.   While  no  substantive  anti-outsourcing  legislation  has  been
introduced  to  date,  given  the  intensifying  debate  over  this  issue,  the
introduction of such legislation is possible.  If introduced,  such measures are
likely to fall  within two  categories:  (1) a  broadening  of  restrictions  on
outsourcing  by federal  government  agencies and on government  contracts  with
firms that outsource  services directly or indirectly,  and/or (2) measures that
impact private  industry,  such as tax  disincentives  or intellectual  property
transfer  restrictions.  In the event that any such  measures  become  law,  our
business,  financial  condition  and results of  operations  could be  adversely
affected and our ability to service our customer could be impaired.


                                       23


<PAGE>


OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE AND COMPETE  EFFECTIVELY COULD BE IMPAIRED IF WE LOSE KEY
PERSONNEL.

      Our future performance  depends to a significant degree upon the continued
service of the key members of our management  team, as well as marketing,  sales
and technical  personnel,  and our ability to attract and retain new  management
and other  personnel.  We do not maintain  key man life  insurance on any of our
executive  officers or  significant  employees.  Competition  for  personnel  is
intense,  and there can be no  assurance  that we will be able to retain our key
employees  or that we  will  be  successful  in  attracting  and  retaining  new
personnel in the future. The loss of any one or more of our key personnel or the
failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

RESTRICTIONS IN  NON-COMPETITION  AGREEMENTS WITH OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS MAY NOT
BE ENFORCEABLE.

      We have entered  into  non-competition  agreements  with a majority of our
executive officers. There can be no assurance, however, that the restrictions in
these agreements prohibiting the executive officers from engaging in competitive
activities  are  enforceable.  Further,  substantially  all of our  professional
non-executive  staff are not covered by agreements that would prohibit them from
working for our competitors. If any of our key professional personnel leaves our
employment  and joins one of our  competitors,  our business  could be adversely
affected.

OUR EARNINGS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE CHANGE OUR INTENT NOT TO REPATRIATE
EARNINGS IN INDIA.

      During the first quarter of 2002,  we made a strategic  decision to pursue
an international strategy that includes expanded  infrastructure  investments in
India and  geographic  expansion  in Europe  and Asia.  As a  component  of this
strategy,  we intend  to use 2002 and  future  Indian  earnings  to  expand  our
operations  outside the United States instead of repatriating  those earnings to
the  United  States.  Accordingly,   effective  January  1,  2002,  pursuant  to
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, "Accounting for Income Taxes-Special
Areas", we no longer have to accrue taxes on all foreign earnings  recognized in
2002  and  subsequent  periods  as  these  earnings  are  now  considered  to be
indefinitely  reinvested outside the United States. While we have no plans to do
so, events may occur in the future that could effectively force us to change our
intent on repatriating  Indian earnings.  If we change our intent and repatriate
such earnings,  we will have to accrue the applicable amount of taxes associated
with  such  earnings  and pay  taxes at a  substantially  higher  rate  than the
effective  rate in 2003.  These  increased  taxes could have a material  adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

OUR EARNINGS MAY BE ADVERSELY  AFFECTED IF WE CHANGE OUR ACCOUNTING  POLICY WITH
RESPECT TO EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS.

      Stock options are an important component of compensation packages for most
of our mid- and senior-level  employees.  We currently do not deduct the expense
of employee stock option grants from our income.  Many companies,  however,  are
considering a change to their


                                       24


<PAGE>


accounting  policies to record the value of stock options issued to employees as
an  expense  and  changes  in the  accounting  treatment  of stock  options  are
currently under  consideration by the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board and
other accounting  standards-setting  bodies.  If we are required to or decide to
change our  accounting  policy with respect to the  treatment of employee  stock
option grants, our earnings could be materially adversely affected.

A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR PROJECTS ARE ON A FIXED-PRICE BASIS,  SUBJECTING US
TO THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH COST OVER-RUNS AND OPERATING COST INFLATION.

      We contract to provide services either on a time-and-materials basis or on
a fixed-price basis, with fixed-price contracts accounting for approximately 25%
and 26% of our  revenues  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2002  and  2003,
respectively. We expect that an increasing number of our future projects will be
contracted  on a  fixed-price  basis.  We bear  the risk of cost  over-runs  and
operating  cost  inflation in connection  with projects  covered by  fixed-price
contracts.  Our failure to estimate  accurately  the resources and time required
for  a  fixed-price   project,  or  our  failure  to  complete  our  contractual
obligations  within the time  frame  committed,  could  have a material  adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MANAGE OUR RAPID GROWTH.

      Since we began providing software  development and maintenance services in
early 1994, our professional and support staff has increased from  approximately
25 to over approximately 9,240 at December 31, 2003. Our anticipated growth will
continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources.  In
particular,  we will have to continue to increase  the number of our  personnel,
particularly skilled technical, marketing and management personnel, and continue
to develop and  improve our  operational,  financial,  communications  and other
internal  systems.  Our inability to manage our anticipated  growth  effectively
could have a material adverse effect on our business,  results of operations and
financial condition.

      As part of our growth strategy,  we are expanding our operations in Europe
and Asia.  We may not be able to compete  effectively  in these  markets and the
cost of entering these markets may be substantially  greater than we expect.  If
we fail to compete  effectively  in the new markets we enter,  or if the cost of
entering those markets is  substantially  greater than we expect,  our business,
results of operations and financial  condition could be adversely  affected.  In
addition, if we cannot compete effectively, we may be required to reconsider our
strategy to invest in our international expansion plans and change our intent on
the repatriation of our earnings.

WE RELY ON A FEW CUSTOMERS FOR A LARGE PORTION OF OUR REVENUES.

      Approximately 35%, 38% and 36% of our revenues in years ended December 31,
2001  and  2002  and  2003,  respectively,  were  generated  from  our top  five
customers. Approximately 10.1% of our revenues in the fiscal year ended December
31, 2003 were generated  from JP Morgan Chase.  The volume of work performed for
specific  customers is likely to vary from year to year, and a major customer in
one year may not use our services in a subsequent  year.  The loss of one of our
large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.


                                       25


<PAGE>


WE GENERALLY DO NOT HAVE LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS.

      Consistent  with  industry  practice,  we  generally  do  not  enter  into
long-term  contracts  with our  customers.  As a  result,  we are  substantially
exposed to  volatility  in the market for our  services,  and may not be able to
maintain our level of profitability.  If we are unable to market our services on
terms we find  acceptable,  our  financial  condition  and results of operations
could suffer materially.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS.

      We historically have experienced significant quarterly fluctuations in our
revenues and results of operations  and expect these  fluctuations  to continue.
Among the factors causing these variations have been:

      o     the number,  timing,  scope and contractual  terms of IT development
            and maintenance projects in which we are engaged;

      o     delays incurred in the performance of those projects;

      o     the accuracy of estimates of resources and time required to complete
            ongoing projects; and

      o     general economic conditions.

      In  addition,  our future  revenues,  operating  results  and  margins may
fluctuate as a result of:

      o     changes in pricing in response to  customer  demand and  competitive
            pressures;

      o     the mix of on-site and offshore staffing;

      o     the  ratio  of  fixed-price   contracts  versus   time-and-materials
            contracts;

      o     employee wage levels and utilization rates;

      o     the timing of collection of accounts receivable; and

      o     the breakdown of revenues by distribution channel.

      A high percentage of our operating  expenses,  particularly  personnel and
rent, are relatively  fixed in advance of any particular  quarter.  As a result,
unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects or in employee
wage  levels  and  utilization  rates may cause  significant  variations  in our
operating  results in any particular  quarter,  and could result in losses.  Any
significant shortfall of revenues in relation to our expectations,  any material
reduction in  utilization  rates for our  professional  staff or variance in the
on-site, offshore staffing mix, an unanticipated termination of a major project,
a  customer's  decision  not to pursue a new  project or  proceed to  succeeding
stages of a current project or the completion  during a quarter of several


                                       26


<PAGE>


major  customer  projects  could require us to pay  underutilized  employees and
could  therefore  have a material  adverse  effect on our  business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

      As a result of these factors,  it is possible that in some future periods,
our revenues and operating  results may be significantly  below the expectations
of public  market  analysts and  investors.  In such an event,  the price of our
common stock would likely be materially and adversely affected.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN OUR CURRENT LEVEL OF PROFITABILITY.

      Our gross margin of 46.4% and 45.8% for the years ended  December 31, 2002
and 2003,  respectively,  may  decline if we  experience  declines in demand and
pricing for our services. In addition, wages in India are increasing at a faster
rate than in the United  States,  which could result in us  incurring  increased
costs for  technical  professionals.  Although  we have  been able to  partially
offset  pricing  pressures  and wage  increases  through our low-cost  operating
structure,  there can be no assurance  that we will be able to continue to do so
in the future.

LIABILITY CLAIMS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS.

      Many  of  our  engagements  involve  projects  that  are  critical  to the
operations of our customers'  businesses and provide benefits that are difficult
to quantify. Any failure in a customer's computer system could result in a claim
for substantial  damages against us,  regardless of our  responsibility  for the
failure.  Although we attempt to limit by  contract  our  liability  for damages
arising from negligent acts,  errors,  mistakes or omissions in rendering our IT
development  and  maintenance  services,  there  can be no  assurance  that  any
contractual  limitations  on liability  will be  enforceable in all instances or
will otherwise  protect us from liability for damages.  Although we have general
liability insurance coverage,  including coverage for errors or omissions, there
can be no assurance  that  coverage  will continue to be available on reasonable
terms or will be  available  in  sufficient  amounts  to cover one or more large
claims,  or that the insurer will not disclaim  coverage as to any future claim.
The  successful  assertion  of one or more large  claims  against us that exceed
available  insurance  coverage or changes in our insurance  policies,  including
premium  increases  or  the  imposition  of  large  deductible  or  co-insurance
requirements,  could have a material adverse effect on our business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

WE MAY HAVE POTENTIAL  LIABILITY  ARISING FROM THE IMS HEALTH  EXCHANGE OFFER IN
THE EVENT  THAT WE BREACH  ANY OF OUR  REPRESENTATIONS  IN  CONNECTION  WITH THE
DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO WITH IMS HEALTH.

      We entered into a Distribution Agreement,  dated January 7, 2003, with IMS
Health (the "Distribution  Agreement"),  that provides, among other things, that
IMS Health and we will comply with,  and not take any action during the relevant
time period that is inconsistent  with, the  representations  made to and relied
upon by  McDermott,  Will & Emery  in  connection  with  rendering  its  opinion
regarding  U.S.  federal  income tax  consequences  of the  exchange  offer.  In
addition,  pursuant to the  Distribution  Agreement,  we agreed to indemnify IMS
Health  for any tax  liability  to which  they may be subject as a result of the
exchange  offer but only to the extent that such tax liability  resulted  solely
from a  breach  of the  representations  that we made and  were


                                       27


<PAGE>


relied upon by McDermott,  Will & Emery in connection with rendering its opinion
regarding the U.S.  federal income tax consequences of the exchange offer. If we
breach any of our representations in connection with the Distribution Agreement,
the related  indemnification  liability could have a material  adverse effect on
our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

WE MAY BE  SUBJECT  TO LEGACY DUN &  BRADSTREET  LIABILITIES  THAT COULD HAVE AN
ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

      In 1996,  The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation,  now known as R.H.  Donnelly
Corporation,  split itself into three separate  companies:  The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation, Cognizant Corporation and ACNielsen Corporation. In connection with
the  split-up  transaction,   The  Dun  &  Bradstreet   Corporation,   Cognizant
Corporation  (renamed  Nielsen Media  Research),  of which Cognizant  Technology
Solutions  Corporation  was  once a  part,  and AC  Nielsen  Corporation  (now a
subsidiary of the Dutch company VNU N.A.) entered into a distribution agreement.
In the 1996 distribution agreement,  each party assumed the liabilities relating
to the businesses  allocated to it and agreed to indemnify the other parties and
their subsidiaries against those liabilities and certain other matters. The 1996
distribution  agreement also prohibited each party thereto from  distributing to
our  stockholders any business  allocated to it unless the distributed  business
delivered  undertakings agreeing to be jointly and severally liable to the other
parties  under  the  1996  distribution  agreement  for the  liabilities  of the
distributing  parent company under the 1996 distribution  agreement.  IMS Health
made such  undertaking  when it was spun off by Nielsen  Media  Research in 1998
and,  accordingly,  IMS  Health and  Nielsen  Media  Research  are  jointly  and
severally  liable to R.H.  Donnelly  and  ACNielsen  for  Cognizant  Corporation
obligations under the terms of the 1996 distribution  agreement.  IMS Health has
requested similar undertakings from Cognizant  Technology Solutions  Corporation
as a condition  to the  distribution  of our shares in the exchange  offer.  IMS
Health is obligated to procure similar  undertakings  from Cognizant  Technology
Solutions  Corporation  to Nielsen Media Research and Synavant Inc. with respect
to  liabilities  allocated  to IMS  Health  in  connection  with  Nielsen  Media
Research's  spin-off of IMS Health and IMS Health's spin-off of Synavant Inc. In
connection with the exchange offer,  Cognizant Technology Solutions  Corporation
has given these undertakings and, as a result,  Cognizant  Technology  Solutions
Corporation  may be  subject  to claims  in the  future  in  relation  to legacy
liabilities.

      One possible legacy liability arises from a pending antitrust action filed
by  Information  Resources  Inc. in 1996,  which names as joint  defendants  all
parties to the 1996 distribution  agreement.  Information  Resources'  complaint
alleges  damages  in excess  of $350  million,  which  amount it has asked to be
trebled, plus punitive damages.  ACNielsen Corporation agreed in connection with
the 1996 distribution agreement to assume any and all liabilities resulting from
the Information Resources claim to the extent that ACNielsen remains financially
viable.  In  connection  with VNU's  acquisition  of ACNielsen in 2001,  VNU was
required to assume this liability and to be included with ACNielsen for purposes
of determining the amount that can be paid by ACNielsen in respect of any claim.
IMS  Health  and  Nielsen  Media   Research,   Inc.,   successors  to  Cognizant
Corporation,  have agreed to share liabilities in excess of the amount ACNielsen
is  required  to pay under the 1996  distribution  agreement  in respect of this
claim on a 50-50  basis  with  The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation  (subsequently
separated into The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation and Moody's  Corporation).  IMS
Health and Nielsen Media Research,


                                       28


<PAGE>


Inc. further agreed to share their portion of the liabilities in relation to the
Information  Resources  action  on a  75-25  basis,  subject  to  Nielsen  Media
Research,  Inc.'s  liability in respect of the Information  Resources action and
certain other contingent  liabilities being capped at $125 million.  Pursuant to
our undertaking, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation could be held liable
for those amounts that VNU, IMS Health,  Nielsen Media  Research,  Inc., and The
Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation  and their  successors  are unable or unwilling to
pay.

      Other claims have arisen in the past and may arise in the future under the
1996 distribution  agreement or the distribution  agreements relating to Nielsen
Media  Research's  spin-off of IMS Health and IMS Health's  spin-off of Synavant
Inc., in which case Cognizant  Technology  Solutions  Corporation may be jointly
and  severally  liable  for any  losses  suffered  by the  parties  entitled  to
indemnification.

      IMS  Health  has  agreed  to  indemnify  Cognizant   Technology  Solutions
Corporation for any and all liabilities that arise out of our undertakings to be
jointly and severally  liable for these  liabilities,  but if for any reason IMS
Health does not perform on our  indemnification  obligation,  these  liabilities
could have a material  adverse effect on our financial  condition and results of
operations.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.

      Our future  success  will  depend in part on our  ability  to protect  our
intellectual  property  rights.  We  presently  hold no  patents  or  registered
copyrights,  and rely upon a  combination  of  copyright  and trade secret laws,
non-disclosure and other contractual  arrangements and various security measures
to protect  our  intellectual  property  rights.  India is a member of the Berne
Convention,  and has agreed to recognize  protections  on  copyrights  conferred
under the laws of foreign countries, including the laws of the United States. We
believe  that laws,  rules,  regulations  and  treaties  in effect in the United
States  and  India  are  adequate  to  protect  us  from   misappropriation   or
unauthorized  use of our  copyrights.  However,  there can be no assurance  that
these laws will not change and, in  particular,  that the laws of India will not
change in ways that may prevent or restrict the transfer of software components,
libraries  and  toolsets  from  India  to the  United  States.  There  can be no
assurance  that the steps we have taken to  protect  our  intellectual  property
rights  will be adequate to deter  misappropriation  of any of our  intellectual
property,  or  that  we  will be  able  to  detect  unauthorized  use  and  take
appropriate  steps to enforce our rights.  Unauthorized  use of our intellectual
property may result in  development  of  technology,  products or services which
compete  with  our  products  and  unauthorized  parties  may  infringe  upon or
misappropriate our products, services or proprietary information.

      Although we believe that our intellectual  property rights do not infringe
on the intellectual  property rights of any of our competitors or others,  there
can be no assurance that infringement  claims will not be asserted against us in
the future,  that assertion of infringement claims will not result in litigation
or that we would  prevail in that  litigation or be able to obtain a license for
the  use  of  any  infringed   intellectual  property  from  a  third  party  on
commercially   reasonable  terms,  if  at  all.  We  expect  that  the  risk  of
infringement  claims  against us will  increase if our  competitors  are able to
obtain patents for software  products and processes.  Any  infringement  claims,
regardless of their outcome,  could result in substantial  cost to us and divert
management's attention from our operations. Any infringement claim or litigation
against us


                                       29


<PAGE>


could,  therefore,  have a material  adverse effect on our business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO INTEGRATE ACQUIRED COMPANIES OR TECHNOLOGIES SUCCESSFULLY.

      We believe that  opportunities  exist in the fragmented IT services market
to expand  our  business  through  selective  strategic  acquisitions  and joint
ventures. We believe that acquisition and joint venture candidates may enable us
to expand our geographic presence,  especially in the European market, enter new
technology areas or expand our capacity.  There can be no assurance that we will
identify  suitable  acquisition  candidates  available  for  sale at  reasonable
prices,  consummate any acquisition or joint venture or  successfully  integrate
any  acquired   business  or  joint  venture  into  our   operations.   Further,
acquisitions  and joint ventures  involve a number of special  risks,  including
diversion  of   management's   attention,   failure  to  retain  key  personnel,
unanticipated  events or  circumstances  and legal  liabilities,  some or all of
which  could  have a  material  adverse  effect  on  our  business,  results  of
operations and financial condition.  We may finance any future acquisitions with
debt  financing,  the  issuance of equity  securities  or a  combination  of the
foregoing.  There can be no assurance  that we will be able to arrange  adequate
financing on  acceptable  terms.  In addition,  acquisitions  financed  with the
issuance of our equity securities could be dilutive.

PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER,  BY-LAWS AND STOCKHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN AND PROVISIONS
UNDER DELAWARE LAW MAY DISCOURAGE UNSOLICITED TAKEOVER PROPOSALS.

      Provisions in our charter and by-laws,  each as amended, our stockholders'
rights plan and Delaware  General  Corporate Law ("DGCL") may have the effect of
deterring  unsolicited  takeover  proposals or delaying or preventing changes in
our control or management,  including  transactions in which  stockholders might
otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In
addition,  these  documents and provisions may limit the ability of stockholders
to approve  transactions  that they may deem to be in their best interests.  Our
board  of  directors  has  the   authority,   without   further  action  by  the
stockholders,  to fix the rights and preferences, and issue shares, of preferred
stock.  Our charter  provides for a classified  board of  directors,  which will
prevent a change of control  of our board of  directors  at a single  meeting of
stockholders.  The  elimination of our  stockholders'  ability to act by written
consent  and to call a special  meeting  will delay  stockholder  actions  until
annual  meetings or until a special  meeting is called by our  chairman or chief
executive   officer  or  our  board  of  directors.   The   supermajority-voting
requirement  for  specified  amendments  to our  charter  and  by-laws  allows a
minority of our stockholders to block those  amendments.  The DGCL also contains
provisions  preventing  stockholders from engaging in business combinations with
us, subject to certain  exceptions.  These provisions could also discourage bids
for our common stock at a premium as well as create a  depressive  effect on the
market price of the shares of our common stock.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

      As of December 31, 2003, we have substantially completed the initial phase
of our India development center expansion  program,  which was announced in July
2001. This program encompassed the construction of three fully-owned development
centers  containing  approximately  650,000  square  feet of space  in  Chennai,
Calcutta  and  Pune.  Each  of  these


                                       30


<PAGE>


development   centers   contain   up-to-date   technology   infrastructure   and
communications capabilities.

      On December 22, 2003,  we announced  building  plans for three  additional
fully-owned  development centers containing over 600,000 square feet of space in
Pune,  Chennai  and  Bangalore.  These  additional  facilities  will  be able to
accommodate approximately 6,500 employees in total.

      In  addition,  we operate  eleven  leased  development  facilities  in the
following cities: Bangalore,  Chennai, Calcutta and Hyderabad in India, Phoenix,
Arizona and Limerick, Ireland.

      We operate out of our Teaneck,  New Jersey  headquarters  and our regional
and international  offices.  We believe that our current facilities are adequate
to support our  existing  operations.  We also  believe  that we will be able to
obtain suitable additional facilities on commercially reasonable terms on an "as
needed" basis.

      We occupy the following properties:

                       Approximate
                          Area
      Location        (in sq. feet)      Use             Nature of Occupancy
------------------    -------------  -------------    ------------------------

Bangalore, India        25,849       Software          Multiple leases
                                     Development       expiring 04/30/05 -
                                     Facility          06/30/06 with renewal
                                                       options

Bangalore, India        35,475       Software          Lease expires 10/31/11
                                     Development       with renewal option
                                     Facility

Chennai, India          84,888       Software          Multiple leases
                                     Development       expiring 11/30/04 with
                                     Facility          renewal options

Chennai, India          15,536       Software          Multiple leases
                                     Development       expiring 1/31/06 -
                                     Facility          4/30/06 with renewal
                                                       options

Chennai, India          34,700       Software          Multiple leases
                                     Development       expiring 8/31/04
                                     Facility          -03/14/06 with renewal
                                                       options

Chennai, India          35,126       Software          Multiple leases
                                     Development       expiring 4/30/06 with
                                     Facility          renewal options

Chennai, India          33,688       Software          Lease expires 12/15/06
                                     Development       with renewal options
                                     Facility

Chennai, India         400,000       Software          Owned
                                     Development
                                     Facility


                                       31


<PAGE>


                       Approximate
                          Area
      Location        (in sq. feet)      Use             Nature of Occupancy
------------------    -------------  -------------    ------------------------

Pune, India            135,723       Software          Owned
                                     Development
                                     Facility

Calcutta, India        114,120       Software          Owned
                                     Development
                                     Facility

Calcutta, India         13,928       Software          Lease expires 10/06/06
                                     Development       with a renewal option
                                     Facility

Hyderabad, India        31,019       Software          Multiple leases
                                     Development       expiring 10/19/08 -
                                     Facility          12/31/08

Teaneck, New Jersey     24,745       Executive and     Multiple leases
                                     Business          expiring 09/30/05 -
                                     Development       12/30/10
                                     Office

Atlanta, Georgia           957       Business          Lease expires 9/30/06
                                     Development
                                     Office

Chicago, Illinois        5,113       Business          Lease expires 7/31/05
                                     Development
                                     Office

Dallas, Texas            2,613       Business          Lease expires 11/30/06
                                     Development
                                     Office

Los Angeles,             1,018       Business          Lease expires 7/31/04
California                           Development
                                     Office

Minneapolis,               766       Business          Lease expires 9/30/06
Minnesota                            Development
                                     Office

San Ramon,               5,670       Business          Lease expires 10/15/06
California                           Development
                                     Office

Phoenix, Arizona        15,953       Software          Lease expires 06/30/06
                                     Development
                                     Facility

Toronto, Canada            200       Business          Lease on Month to Month
                                     Development       basis
                                     Office

Frankfurt, Germany         284       Business          Lease expires 03/31/07
                                     Development
                                     Office

Limerick, Ireland       10,495       Software          Multiple lease expiring
                                     Development       03/27/23 - 05/31/32,
                                     Facility          cancelable with 12
                                                       month notice


                                       32


<PAGE>


                       Approximate
                          Area
      Location        (in sq. feet)      Use             Nature of Occupancy
------------------    -------------  -------------    ------------------------

London, England          2,080       Business          Lease expires 9/28/04
                                     Development
                                     Office

Zurich, Switzerland        102       Business          Lease expires 09/30/04
                                     Development
                                     Office

Geneva, Switzerland        100       Business          Lease expires 09/30/04
                                     Development
                                     Office

Singapore                  200       Business          Lease expires 09/30/04
                                     Development
                                     Office

Amsterdam, The           7,131       Business          Multiple leases
Netherlands                          Development       expiring 7/31/05 -
                                     Office            12/31/05



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      We are  involved  in  various  claims  and legal  actions  arising  in the
ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of our  management,  the outcome of
such claims and legal actions,  if decided adversely,  is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on our quarterly or annual operating results, cash flows
or consolidated financial position.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTER TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      Not applicable.


                                       33


<PAGE>


                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR OUR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      Prior to June 1998, there was no established market for our Class B common
stock.  Since June 19,  1998,  the Class A common stock has traded on the Nasdaq
National Market ("NNM") under the symbol "CTSH". Our Class B common stock is not
listed on a stock exchange and does not trade.

      Prior to February 13, 2003,  all of the issued and  outstanding  shares of
our Class B common  stock were held by IMS Health.  On February  13,  2003,  IMS
Health  distributed  all of our Class B common  stock that IMS  Health  owned (a
total of 33,872,700  shares,  on a post-split basis) in an exchange offer to its
stockholders. IMS Health distributed 0.927 shares of our Class B common stock to
its stockholders  for every one share of IMS Health's common stock tendered.  As
of February 21, 2003, pursuant to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, all
of the shares of Class B common  stock  automatically  converted  into shares of
Class A common stock. According to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, if
at any  time the  outstanding  shares  of our  Class B common  stock  ceases  to
represent at least 35% of the economic  ownership  represented  by the aggregate
number of shares of our common stock then outstanding, each share of our Class B
common  stock shall  automatically  convert into one share of our Class A common
stock.  This automatic  conversion  occurred on February 21, 2003 based on share
numbers we received from our transfer agent  (American  Stock Transfer and Trust
Company) as of the close of business February 20, 2003, which indicated that the
Class B common stock  represented  less than 35%  ownership  represented  by the
aggregate number of shares of our common stock then outstanding. Accordingly, as
of February 21, 2003, there are no shares of Class B common stock outstanding.

      The  following  table  describes  the per share range of high and low sale
prices for shares of our Class A common  stock,  as listed for  quotation on the
NNM, and the quarterly cash dividends per share for the periods indicated.  This
table has been  restated  to  reflect  our  3-for-1  stock  split  which  became
effective on April 1, 2003.

                                                            Cash
                                                        Dividend Per
        Quarter Ended            High          Low          Share
--------------------------      ------       ------     ------------
March 31, 2002............      $14.03       $11.00         $0.00
June 30, 2002.............      $18.07       $12.57         $0.00
September 30, 2002........      $21.23       $16.16         $0.00
December 31, 2002.........      $25.22       $16.00         $0.00
March 31, 2003............      $24.08       $18.77         $0.00
June 30, 2003.............      $25.20       $17.49         $0.00
September 30, 2003........      $40.80       $25.07         $0.00
December 31, 2003.........      $48.40       $37.18         $0.00


      As of March 5, 2004,  the  approximate  number of holders of record of our
Class A common stock was 352 and the approximate number of beneficial holders of
our Class A common stock was 13,501.


                                       34


<PAGE>


      We have never  declared or paid cash  dividends  on our Class A or Class B
common stock.  We currently  intend to retain any future earnings to finance the
growth of the business and,  therefore,  do not currently  anticipate paying any
cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

      Equity Compensation Plan Information
      ------------------------------------

      The  following  table  provides  information  as of December 31, 2003 with
respect to the shares of our common  stock that may be issued under our existing
equity compensation plans.

      ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Number of                    Number of
                                Securities     Weighted      Securities
                               to be Issued    Average      Available for
                                   Upon        Exercise    Future Issuance
                                Exercise of    Price of     Under Equity
                                Outstanding  Outstanding    Compensation
      Plan Category               Options      Options          Plans
      ----------------------------------------------------------------------
      Equity compensation
      plans that have been
      approved by security
      holders................   12,471,665       $14.79      1,165,768
      ----------------------------------------------------------------------

      In addition, as of December 31, 2003, there are 2,028,249 shares available
for  issuance  under  our  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan,  which is an  equity
compensation plan approved by security holders. There are no equity compensation
plans that have not been approved by security holders.


                                       35


<PAGE>


ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

      The  following  table  sets  forth our  selected  consolidated  historical
financial  data as of the  dates and for the  periods  indicated.  Our  selected
consolidated financial data set forth below as of December 31, 2002 and 2003 and
for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  2003 has been
derived from the audited financial  statements  included  elsewhere herein.  Our
selected  consolidated  financial  data set forth below as of December 31, 1999,
2000 and 2001 and for each of the years  ended  December  31,  1999 and 2000 are
derived from the audited financial statements not included elsewhere herein. Our
selected  consolidated  financial  information for 2001, 2002 and 2003 should be
read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes and
"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                       -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1999           2000          2001          2002         2003
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                       (in thousands, except per share data)
Consolidated Statement of Operations Data:
<S>                                    <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues ..........................    $  74,084     $ 122,758     $ 158,969     $ 208,657     $ 365,656
Revenues - related party ..........       14,820        14,273        18,809        20,429         2,575
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
    Total revenues ................       88,904       137,031       177,778       229,086       368,231
Cost of revenues ..................       46,161        70,437        90,848       122,701       199,724
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
Gross profit ......................       42,743        66,594        86,930       106,385       168,507
Selling, general and
  administrative expenses .........       23,061        35,959        44,942        53,345        84,259
Depreciation and
  amortization expense ............        3,037         4,507         6,368         7,842        11,936
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
Income from operations ............       16,645        26,128        35,620        45,198        72,312
Other income (expense):
  Interest income .................        1,263         2,649         2,501         1,808         2,128
  Split-off costs .................         --            --            --          (1,680)       (2,010)
  Impairment loss on investment ...         --            --          (1,955)         --            --
  Other income (expense) - net ....           37          (530)         (767)         (235)         (199)
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
    Total other income (expense)...        1,300         2,119          (221)         (107)          (81)
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
Income before provision for
  income taxes ....................       17,945        28,247        35,399        45,091        72,231
Provision for income taxes ........       (6,711)      (10,564)      (13,239)      (10,529)      (14,866)
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
Net income ........................    $  11,234     $  17,683     $  22,160     $  34,562     $  57,365
                                       =========     =========     =========     =========     =========
Basic earnings per share ..........    $    0.20     $    0.32     $    0.39     $    0.58     $    0.92
                                       =========     =========     =========     =========     =========
Diluted earnings per share ........    $    0.19     $    0.29     $    0.36     $    0.54     $    0.84
                                       =========     =========     =========     =========     =========
Weighted average number of
  common shares outstanding .......       55,026        55,695        57,051        59,241        62,505
                                       =========     =========     =========     =========     =========
Weighted average number of
  common shares and stock
  options outstanding .............       58,246        60,767        61,113        63,693        67,907
                                       =========     =========     =========     =========     =========


                                       36


<PAGE>

                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                       -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1999           2000          2001          2002         2003
                                       ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                       (in thousands, except per share data)
Consolidated Statement of Financial
  Position Data:
Cash and cash equivalents..........    $  42,641     $  61,976     $  84,977     $ 126,211     $ 194,221
Working capital....................       43,507        61,501        95,637       134,347       215,861
Total assets.......................       69,026       109,540       144,983       231,473       360,589
Due to related party...............         --               8          --           --             --
Stockholders' equity...............       45,461        66,116        98,792       165,481       274,070
</TABLE>


                                       37


<PAGE>


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview
--------

      We are a leading  provider  of custom IT  services  related  to IT design,
development,  integration  and maintenance  services  primarily for Fortune 1000
companies located in the United States and Europe. Our core competencies include
web-centric  applications,  data  warehousing,  component-based  development and
legacy and  client-server  systems.  We provide IT services  using an integrated
on-site/offshore  business model. This seamless  on-site/offshore business model
combines  technical and account management teams located on-site at the customer
location  and  offshore at dedicated  development  centers  located in India and
Ireland.

      In 2003,  our  revenue  increased  to $368.2  million  compared  to $229.1
million in 2002.  Net income  increased  to $57.4  million or $0.84 per  diluted
share in 2003 compared to $34.6 million or $0.54 per diluted share in 2002.  Our
revenue  growth  was  driven by  continued  strong  demand  for our  application
management and application development and integration services. We believe this
trend will continue in 2004. We finished 2003 with 153 active  clients  compared
to 115 in 2002. We anticipate  that a significant  portion of our revenue growth
in 2004 will come from increased  penetration of existing clients.  During 2003,
88% of our revenue came from clients in North America.  In 2004, we will look to
expand our  presence in Northern  Europe as we are  starting to see an increased
level of interest for offshore  services in that region.  In 2003, our operating
margin decreased approximately 10 basis points to 19.6% from 19.7% in 2002. This
was consistent  with our targeted  operating  margin range of 19 to 20% of total
revenues.

      At December 31, 2003, we had cash and cash  equivalents of $194.2 million,
an increase  of $68  million  over the prior year.  On  December  22,  2003,  we
announced building plans for three additional  fully-owned  development  centers
containing  over 600,000  square feet of space in Pune,  Chennai and  Bangalore.
Total costs  related to this  program are  expected  to be  approximately  $42.5
million,  which we expect  to fund  from  current  operations.  Accordingly,  we
believe  our  financial  condition  will remain  strong.  In  addition,  we will
continue to consider acquisitions of companies that can improve our capabilities
in certain market niches or geographic areas.

Critical Accounting Estimates and Risks
---------------------------------------

      Management's  discussion  and  analysis  of our  financial  condition  and
results of operations are based on our  consolidated  financial  statements that
have been prepared in accordance with accounting  principles  generally accepted
in the United States of America.  The preparation of these financial  statements
requires  management to make estimates and  assumptions  that affect the amounts
reported for assets and liabilities,  including the  recoverability  of tangible
and intangible assets, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the
date of the  financial  statements,  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and
expenses  during the  reported  period.  On an on-going  basis,  we evaluate our
estimates.  The most significant  estimates relate to the recognition of revenue
and profits  based on the  percentage of  completion  method of  accounting  for
certain fixed-bid contracts, the allowance for doubtful accounts,  income taxes,
valuation of goodwill and other long-lived assets, contingencies and litigation.
We

                                       38


<PAGE>


base our estimates on  historical  experience  and on various other  assumptions
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for  making  judgments  about the  carrying  values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual amounts
will differ  from the  estimates  used in the  preparation  of the  accompanying
consolidated  financial  statements.  Our  significant  accounting  policies are
described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

      We believe the following critical accounting policies require higher level
of management  judgments and estimates than others in preparing the consolidated
financial statements:

      REVENUE  RECOGNITION.  Revenues  related to our fixed-price  contracts are
recognized as the service is performed using the percentage-of-completion method
of  accounting,  under which the total  contract  revenue  during the term of an
agreement is recognized on the basis of the percentage that each contract's cost
to date bears to the total estimated cost.  Estimates of total contract revenues
and  costs are  continuously  monitored  during  the term of the  contract,  and
recorded revenues and costs are subject to revision as the contract  progresses.
Such  revisions  may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and
are reflected in the consolidated  financial  statements in the periods in which
they are first identified.

      ALLOWANCE  FOR DOUBTFUL  ACCOUNTS.  We maintain an allowance  for doubtful
accounts for estimated  losses  resulting from the inability of our customers to
make required  payments.  The  allowance for doubtful  accounts is determined by
evaluating  the relative  credit-worthiness  of each customer  based upon market
capitalization and other information, including the aging of the receivables. If
the financial  condition of our customers were to  deteriorate,  resulting in an
impairment  of their  ability to make  payments,  additional  allowances  may be
required.

      INCOME  TAXES.  Determining  the  consolidated  provision  for  income tax
expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and related valuation allowance, if
any, involves  judgment.  As a global company,  we are required to calculate and
provide for income  taxes in each of the  jurisdictions  where we operate.  This
involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making
judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can
involve  complex  issues and may require an extended  period to resolve.  In the
period  of  resolution,  adjustments  may need to be  recorded  that  result  in
increases  or decreases to income.  Changes in the  geographic  mix or estimated
level of annual pre-tax income can also affect the overall  effective income tax
rate.

      On an on-going basis, we evaluate whether a valuation  allowance is needed
to reduce our  deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to
be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and on-going prudent
and feasible tax planning  strategies  in assessing  the need for the  valuation
allowance,  in the event we determine  that we will be able to realize  deferred
tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount,  an adjustment to
the deferred tax asset would  increase  income in the period such  determination
was made. Likewise,  should we determine that we will not be able to realize all
or part of the net  deferred  tax  asset in the  future,  an  adjustment  to the
deferred  tax asset  would be charged to income or equity (if the  deferred  tax
asset is related to tax benefits  from stock option  benefits that have not been
realized) in the period such determination was made.


                                       39


<PAGE>


      Our Indian  subsidiary,  Cognizant India, is an  export-oriented  company,
which,  under  the  Indian  Income  Tax Act of 1961,  is  entitled  to claim tax
holidays  for a period of ten years with  respect to  Cognizant  India's  export
profits.  Substantially  all of the earnings of Cognizant India are attributable
to export profits and are therefore  currently entitled to a 100% exemption from
Indian income tax.  These tax holidays  will begin to expire in 2004 and,  under
current law, will be completely  phased out by March of 2009.  Prior to 2002, it
was management's intent to repatriate all accumulated earnings from India to the
United States;  accordingly, we provided for deferred income taxes in the amount
of  approximately  $28.6  million  on all such  undistributed  earnings  through
December  31,  2001.  During  the first  quarter  of 2002,  we made a  strategic
decision  to  pursue  an   international   strategy   that   includes   expanded
infrastructure investments in India and geographic expansion in Europe and Asia.
As a  component  of this  strategy,  we  intend  to use 2002 and  future  Indian
earnings  to  expand  operations   outside  of  the  United  States  instead  of
repatriating these earnings to the United States. Accordingly, effective January
1, 2002,  pursuant to Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No. 23, we no longer
accrue  incremental  U.S. taxes on all foreign  earnings  recognized in 2002 and
subsequent   periods  as  these  earnings  are  considered  to  be  indefinitely
reinvested  outside of the United States. As of December 31, 2003, the amount of
unrepatriated  Indian  earnings upon which no  incremental  U.S. taxes have been
recorded is  approximately  $79.5  million.  While we have no plans to do so, if
such  earnings  are  repatriated  in the  future or are no  longer  deemed to be
indefinitely  reinvested,   we  will  accrue  the  applicable  amount  of  taxes
associated with such earnings and pay taxes at a substantially  higher rate than
the effective  rate in 2003.  Due to the various  methods by which such earnings
could be repatriated in the future, it is not currently practicable to determine
the amount of  applicable  taxes that would  result  from such  repatriation  or
whether the amount of previously  accrued deferred taxes on earnings  recognized
prior to 2002 will  require  adjustment.

      Effective  April 1, 2003,  the  government of India passed various tax law
changes which affected the way in which our earnings are taxed in India. The tax
exemption  for export  earnings  was  restored to 100% from 90%.  The surtax was
reduced,  decreasing the Indian effective rate from 36.75% to 35.875% for income
that is subject to tax, the corporate  level tax on the payment of dividends was
restored and the withholding tax on dividends was repealed.

      GOODWILL.  We evaluate  goodwill for impairment at least  annually,  or as
circumstances  warrant.  When determining the fair value of our reporting units,
we utilize various assumptions,  including projections of future cash flows. Any
adverse changes in key  assumptions  about our businesses and their prospects or
an adverse  change in market  conditions may cause a change in the estimation of
fair value and could result in an  impairment  charge.  As of December 31, 2003,
our goodwill balance was approximately $4.5 million.

      LONG-LIVED  ASSETS.  In accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards  ("SFAS")  No.  144,  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  or Disposal of
Long-Lived  Assets",  which  was  adopted  in 2002,  we  review  for  impairment
long-lived  assets  and  certain  identifiable  intangibles  whenever  events or
changes in  circumstances  indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. In general, we will recognize an impairment loss when the sum of
undiscounted expected future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of such
asset.  The  measurement  for such an impairment  loss is then based on the fair
value of the asset. If such assets were determined to be impaired, it could have
a material  adverse effect on our business,  results of operations and financial
condition.



                                       40


<PAGE>


      RISKS.  Most  of our  IT  development  centers,  including  a  substantial
majority of our employees are located in India.  As a result,  we may be subject
to certain risks  associated  with  international  operations,  including  risks
associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and risks associated
with the  application  and imposition of protective  legislation and regulations
relating to import and export or otherwise  resulting from foreign policy or the
variability of foreign  economic or political  conditions.  To date, we have not
engaged in any hedging  transactions  to mitigate our risks relating to exchange
rate  fluctuations.  Additional risks associated with  international  operations
include difficulties in enforcing  intellectual  property rights, the burdens of
complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, potential geo-political and other
risks associated with terrorist activities and local and cross border conflicts,
potentially adverse tax consequences,  tariffs,  quotas and other barriers.  See
Item 1  "Business -  Additional  Factors  That May Affect  Future  Results"  for
discussion  of  additional  risks that may affect our  business,  operations  or
financial results.

Results of Operations
---------------------

      The  following  table  sets  forth,  for the  periods  indicated,  certain
financial data expressed for the three years ended December 31, 2003:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                 Increase (Decrease)
                                           % of                 % of                   % of    -----------------------
(Dollars in thousands)          2001      Revenues    2002     Revenues     2003      Revenues   2002           2003
                             ---------    --------  ---------  --------   ---------   -------- ---------     ---------
<S>                          <C>           <C>      <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>     <C>           <C>
Revenues ................    $ 177,778     100.0%   $ 229,086   100.0%    $ 368,231    100.0%  $  51,308     $ 139,145
Cost ofrevenues .........       90,848      51.1      122,701    53.6       199,724     54.2      31,853        77,023
                             ---------     ------   ---------   ------    ---------    ------  ---------     ---------
Gross profit ............       86,930      48.9      106,385    46.4       168,507     45.8      19,455        62,122
Selling, general and
  administrative ........       44,942      25.3       53,345    23.3        84,259     22.9       8,403        30,914
Depreciation and
  amortization ..........        6,368       3.6        7,842     3.4        11,936      3.3       1,474         4,094
                             ---------     ------   ---------   ------    ---------    ------  ---------     ---------
Income from operations ..       35,620      20.0       45,198    19.7        72,312     19.6       9,578        27,114
                                           ======               ======                 ======
Other income (expense),
  net ...................         (221)                  (107)                  (81)                 114            26
Provision for
  income taxes ..........      (13,239)               (10,529)              (14,866)              (2,710)        4,337
Net income ..............    $  22,160      12.5    $  34,562    15.1     $  57,365     15.6      12,402        22,803
                             =========     ======   =========   ======    =========    ======

</TABLE>


Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002

      REVENUE. Revenue increased by 60.7%, or approximately $139.1 million, from
approximately  $229.1  million  during 2002 to  approximately  $368.2 million in
2003.  This increase  resulted  primarily  from an increase in both  application
management and development services, and revenue generated from acquisitions. We
provide services through  time-and-materials  and fixed-bid contracts.  Over the
course of the last three years,  revenues  recognized under fixed-bid  contracts
have  increased  as a percent of total  revenues  from 23.9% in 2001 to 24.6% in
2002 and 25.9% in 2003.  This  increase is  attributable  primarily to increased
demand


                                       41


<PAGE>


due to our customers preferring to specifically  quantify project costs prior to
entering into contracts.

      During 2003,  one customer,  JP Morgan  Chase,  accounted for 10.1% of our
revenues  and, in 2002,  no single  customer  accounted  for greater than 10% of
revenues.

      GROSS  PROFIT.  Our cost of  revenues  consists  primarily  of the cost of
salaries,  payroll  taxes,  benefits,   immigration  and  travel  for  technical
personnel,  and the cost of  sales  commissions  related  to  revenues.  Cost of
revenues increased by 62.8%, or approximately $77.0 million,  from approximately
$122.7 million during 2002 to approximately $199.7 million in 2003. The increase
was due primarily to higher  compensation  costs  resulting from the increase in
the number of our technical  professionals from approximately 5,600 employees at
December 31, 2002 to  approximately  8,500  employees at December 31, 2003.  The
increased number of technical professionals is a direct result of greater demand
for our services and employees acquired through  acquisitions.  Our gross profit
increased by 58.4%, or approximately  $62.1 million,  from approximately  $106.4
million during 2002 to  approximately  $168.5 million during 2003.  Gross profit
margin  decreased  from 46.4% of  revenues  during  2002 to 45.8% of revenues in
2003. The decrease in such gross profit margin was primarily attributable to the
appreciation of the Indian Rupee versus the U.S. dollar.

      SELLING,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  consist  primarily  of  salaries,  employee  benefits,
travel,  promotion,  communications,  management,  finance,  administrative  and
occupancy  costs.  Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses,   including
depreciation  and  amortization,  increased  by 57.2%,  or  approximately  $35.0
million,  from  approximately  $61.2 million during 2002 to approximately  $96.2
million during 2003, and decreased as a percentage of revenue from approximately
26.7% to 26.1%, respectively.  The increase in such expenses in absolute dollars
was due  primarily  to  expenses  incurred  to expand  our  sales and  marketing
activities  and  increased  infrastructure  expenses to support our growth.  The
decrease in such  expenses as a percentage  of revenue was due  primarily to the
leverage  achieved from increased  revenues that have resulted from our expanded
sales and marketing activities in the current and prior years.

      INCOME  FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income  from  operations  increased  60.0%,  or
approximately  $27.1 million,  from  approximately  $45.2 million during 2002 to
approximately  $72.3 million during 2003,  representing  approximately 19.7% and
19.6% of  revenues,  respectively.  The  decrease  in  operating  margin was due
primarily to the lower gross margin  partially offset by our ability to leverage
prior sales and marketing investments.

      OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE.  Other income/expense consists primarily of interest
income and  split-off  costs  related to the exchange  offer in which IMS Health
offered to its stockholders to exchange its holdings of our Class B common stock
for shares of IMS Health. Interest income increased by approximately 17.7%, from
approximately  $1.8 million  during 2002 to  approximately  $2.1 million  during
2003. The increase in such interest  income was  attributable to higher invested
cash balances  partially  offset by lower global  interest  rates. We recognized
split-off costs of approximately $2.0 million and $1.7 million in 2003 and 2002,
respectively.


                                       42


<PAGE>


      PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES.  The provision for income taxes increased from
approximately $10.5 million in 2002 to approximately $14.9 million in 2003, with
an effective  tax rate of 23.4% in 2002 and 20.6% in 2003.  The lower  effective
tax rate is a result of a reduction  in the surtax in India and the  restoration
of the 100% exemption on export  earnings both of which were effective  April 1,
2003. (See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.)

      NET INCOME. Net income increased from approximately  $34.6 million in 2002
to approximately  $57.4 million in 2003,  representing  approximately  15.1% and
15.6% as a percentage of revenues,  respectively.  The higher percentage in 2003
is primarily  attributed  to the decrease in the  effective  tax rate  discussed
above.

Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001

      REVENUE.  Revenue increased by 28.9%, or approximately $51.3 million, from
approximately  $177.8  million  during 2001 to  approximately  $229.1 million in
2002.  This  increase  resulted   primarily  from  an  increase  in  application
management and  application  development and  integration  services.  We provide
services through  time-and-materials and fixed-bid contracts. Over the course of
the  last  three  years  revenues  recognized  under  fixed-bid  contracts  have
increased as a percent of total  revenues from 15.1% in 2000 to 23.9% in 2001 to
24.6% in 2002.

      Sales to  related  parties  on a  year-over-year  basis  were 8.9% in 2002
compared to 10.6% in 2001. For statement of operations  purposes,  revenues from
related parties only include revenues  recognized during the period in which the
related party was our affiliate.  During 2002 and 2001, no third party accounted
for greater than 10% of revenues.

      GROSS  PROFIT.  Our cost of  revenues  consists  primarily  of the cost of
salaries,  payroll  taxes,  benefits,   immigration  and  travel  for  technical
personnel,  and the cost of sales commissions  related to revenues.  Our cost of
revenues increased by 35.1%, or approximately $31.9 million,  from approximately
$90.8 million during 2001 to approximately  $122.7 million in 2002. The increase
was due  primarily  to the  increased  cost  resulting  from the increase in the
number of our technical  professionals  from  approximately  3,470  employees at
December 31, 2001 to  approximately  5,600  employees at December 31, 2002.  The
increased number of technical professionals is a direct result of greater demand
for our services and employees acquired through  acquisitions.  Our gross profit
increased by 22.4%, or approximately  $19.5 million,  from  approximately  $86.9
million during 2001 to  approximately  $106.4 million during 2002.  Gross profit
margin  decreased  from 48.9% of  revenues  during  2001 to 46.4% of revenues in
2002.  The decrease in such gross profit  margin was primarily  attributable  to
higher  incentive  compensation  costs in 2002 as compared  to 2001,  due to our
significantly increased performance.

      SELLING,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  consist  primarily  of  salaries,  employee  benefits,
travel,  promotion,  communications,  management,  finance,  administrative  and
occupancy  costs.  Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses,   including
depreciation  and  amortization,  increased  by  19.2%,  or  approximately  $9.9
million,  from  approximately  $51.3 million during 2001 to approximately  $61.2
million during 2002, and decreased as a percentage of revenue from approximately
28.9% to 26.7%, respectively.  The increase in such expenses in absolute dollars
was due  primarily  to  expenses


                                       43


<PAGE>


incurred  to  expand  our  sales  and   marketing   activities   and   increased
infrastructure  expenses to support our growth. The decrease in such expenses as
a percentage of revenue was due  primarily to the  increased  revenues that have
resulted  from our expanded  sales and  marketing  activities in the current and
prior years.

      INCOME  FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income  from  operations  increased  26.9%,  or
approximately  $9.6 million,  from  approximately  $35.6 million  during 2001 to
approximately  $45.2 million during 2002,  representing  approximately 20.0% and
19.7% of  revenues,  respectively.  The  decrease  in  operating  margin was due
primarily to higher incentive compensation costs in 2002 as compared to 2001.

      OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE.  Other income/expense consists primarily of interest
income offset,  by foreign currency  exchange losses and, in 2001, an impairment
loss on an  investment,  and in 2002,  split-off  costs  related to the exchange
offer in which IMS  Health has  offered  to its  stockholders  to  exchange  its
holdings of our Class B common  stock for shares of IMS  Health.  (See Note 1 to
the   consolidated   financial   statements.)   Interest  income   decreased  by
approximately   27.7%,   from   approximately   $2.5  million   during  2001  to
approximately $1.8 million during 2002. The decrease in such interest income was
attributable  primarily to lower  interest  rates,  offset,  in part,  by higher
operating cash balances.  We recognized a net foreign currency  exchange loss of
approximately $767,000 during 2001 compared to an exchange loss of approximately
$235,000  during 2002, as a result of the effect of changing  exchange  rates on
our transactions.  We recognized an impairment loss on our investment in Questra
Corporation  ("Questra") of approximately $2.0 million during the fourth quarter
of 2001 in  recognition  of an  other  than  temporary  decline  in  value.  The
impairment loss was based upon an implied  valuation of Questra as a result of a
recent new round of venture  capital  funding  in which our equity  interest  in
Questra  was  substantially  diluted  and  investors,  other  than us,  received
preferential  liquidation  rights. The impairment loss, net of tax benefit,  was
approximately $1.2 million, or $0.02 per diluted share. We recognized  split-off
costs of approximately $1.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 related to the
exchange offer.

      PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES.  The provision for income taxes decreased from
approximately $13.2 million in 2001 to approximately $10.5 million in 2002, with
an effective  tax rate of 37.4% in 2001 and 23.4% in 2002.  The lower  effective
tax rate reflects our change in our intention regarding the repatriation of 2002
and future  earnings from our  subsidiary  in India,  as well as a change in the
manner in which  repatriated  earnings  are  taxed in India.  (See Note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements.)

      NET INCOME. Net income increased from approximately  $22.2 million in 2001
to approximately  $34.6 million in 2002,  representing  approximately  12.5% and
15.1% as a percentage of revenues,  respectively.  The higher percentage in 2002
primarily reflects the decrease in the effective tax rate discussed above.

Results by Business Segment
---------------------------

      We,  operating  globally,   provide  IT  services  for  medium  and  large
businesses.  North American  operations  consist primarily of IT services in the
United States and Canada. European operations consist of IT services principally
in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands and


                                       44
<PAGE>


Ireland.   Asian  operations  consist  of  IT  services  principally  in  India,
Singapore,   Japan  and  Australia.  We  are  managed  on  a  geographic  basis.
Accordingly,  regional sales managers, sales managers, account managers, project
teams and  facilities  are segmented  geographically  and decisions by our chief
operating  decision  maker  regarding the allocation of assets and assessment of
performance are based on such geographic segmentation.  In this regard, revenues
are allocated to each geographic area based on the location of the customer.

      The  following  table sets  forth,  for the periods  indicated,  operating
results by geographic segment:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       2002                  2003
(Dollars in thousands)                                                      ---------------------   -------------------
                                                                             Increase               Increase
                                         2001        2002         2003      (Decrease)        %     (Decrease)      %
                                       --------    --------     --------    ----------      -----   ----------    -----
Revenues
<S>                                    <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>             <C>     <C>           <C>
  North America ...................    $151,933    $199,605     $325,337    $ 47,672        31.4%   $125,732      63.0%
  Europe ..........................      24,221      27,886       40,160       3,665        15.1      12,274      44.0
  Asia ............................       1,624       1,595        2,734         (29)       (1.8)      1,139      71.4
                                       --------    --------     --------
   Total revenue ..................    $177,778    $229,086     $368,231
                                       ========    ========     ========
Operating Income
  North America ...................    $ 30,435    $ 39,380     $ 63,888    $  8,945        29.4%   $ 24,508      62.2%
  Europe ..........................       4,860       5,503        7,887         643        13.2       2,384      43.3
  Asia ............................         325         315          537         (10)       (3.1)        222      70.5
                                       --------    --------     --------
   Total revenue ..................    $ 35,620    $ 45,198     $ 72,312
                                       ========    ========     ========
</TABLE>

Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002

      North American Segment
      ----------------------

      REVENUE. Revenue increased by 63.0%, or approximately $125.7 million, from
approximately  $199.6  million  during 2002 to  approximately  $325.3 million in
2003. The increase in revenue was attributable  primarily to greater  acceptance
of the  on-site/offshore  IT  services  delivery  model as a means of reducing a
customer's  internal  IT  costs,  as  well  as  increased  sales  and  marketing
activities directed at the U.S. market for our services.

      INCOME  FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income  from  operations  increased  62.2%,  or
approximately  $24.5 million,  from  approximately  $39.4 million during 2002 to
approximately  $63.9 million during 2003.  The increase in operating  income was
attributable  primarily to increased  revenues and  achieving  leverage on prior
sales and marketing investments.

      European Segment
      ----------------

      REVENUE.  Revenue increased by 44.0%, or approximately $12.3 million, from
approximately  $27.9 million during 2002 to approximately $40.2 million in 2003.
The increase in revenue was  attributable  to the  increased  acceptance  of our
services, particularly in the United Kingdom.


                                       45


<PAGE>


      INCOME  FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income  from  operations  increased  43.3%,  or
approximately  $2.4  million,  from  approximately  $5.5 million  during 2002 to
approximately  $7.9 million  during 2003.  The increase in operating  income was
attributable  primarily to increased  revenues and  achieving  leverage on prior
sales and marketing investments.

      Asian Segment
      -------------

      REVENUE.  Revenue increased by 71.4%, or approximately $1.1 million,  from
approximately  $1.6 million during 2002 to  approximately  $2.7 million in 2003.
The increase in revenue was primarily  attributable  to increased  acceptance of
our  on-site/offshore  delivery  model by clients based in Japan,  Singapore and
Australia.

      INCOME  FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income  from  operations  increased  70.5%,  or
approximately  $0.2  million,  from  approximately  $0.3 million  during 2002 to
approximately  $0.5 million  during 2003.  The increase in operating  income was
attributable  primarily to increased  revenues and  achieving  leverage on prior
sales and marketing investments.

Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001

      North American Segment
      ----------------------

      REVENUE.  Revenue increased by 31.4%, or approximately $47.7 million, from
approximately  $151.9  million  during 2001 to  approximately  $199.6 million in
2002.  The increase in revenue was  attributable  primarily to increased  market
awareness and acceptance of the  on-site/offshore IT services delivery model, as
well as sales and  marketing  activities  directed  at the U.S.  market  for our
services.

      INCOME  FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income  from  operations  increased  29.4%,  or
approximately  $8.9 million,  from  approximately  $30.4 million  during 2001 to
approximately  $39.4 million during 2002.  The increase in operating  income was
attributable  primarily to increased  revenues and  achieving  leverage on prior
sales and marketing investments.

      European Segment
      ----------------

      REVENUE.  Revenue increased by 15.1%, or approximately $3.7 million,  from
approximately  $24.2 million during 2001 to approximately $27.9 million in 2002.
The increase in revenue was  attributable to our sales and marketing  activities
in the  United  Kingdom,  partially  offset  by weak  demand  for  our  services
elsewhere in Europe.

      INCOME  FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income  from  operations  increased  13.2%,  or
approximately  $0.6  million,  from  approximately  $4.9 million  during 2001 to
approximately  $5.5 million  during 2002.  The increase in operating  income was
attributable  primarily to increased  revenues and  achieving  leverage on prior
sales and marketing investments.

      Asian Segment
      -------------

      REVENUE.   Revenue  was   essentially   constant  from  2001  to  2002  at
approximately $1.6 million in each year.


                                       46


<PAGE>


      INCOME FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income from operations was essentially  constant
from 2001 to 2002 at approximately $0.3 million in each year.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
-------------------------------

      At December 31, 2003, we had cash and cash  equivalents  of  approximately
$194.2  million.  We have used,  and plan to use, such cash for (i) expansion of
existing operations,  including our offshore software development centers;  (ii)
continued  development of new service  lines;  (iii)  possible  acquisitions  of
related businesses;  (iv) formation of joint ventures; and (v) general corporate
purposes, including working capital. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, we had no
significant third party debt. We had working capital of approximately $215.9 and
$134.3 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Accordingly,  we do
not anticipate any near-term liquidity issues.

      Net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $79.9 million,
$56.7 million and $32.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and
2001,  respectively.  The  increase  in 2003 as  compared  to the prior  year is
primarily  attributed  to  the  increase  in  our  net  income.  Trade  accounts
receivable  increased from  approximately  $22.5 million at December 31, 2001 to
approximately  $36.7  million at December  31, 2002 and to  approximately  $52.3
million at December  31,  2003.  Unbilled  accounts  receivable  decreased  from
approximately $5.4 million at December 31, 2001 to approximately $4.3 million at
December 31, 2002 and  increased to  approximately  $9.5 million at December 31,
2003. The increase in trade accounts receivable during 2003 was due primarily to
increased revenue. The increase in unbilled accounts receivable in 2003 compared
to the prior year was due primarily to revenue  growth and increased  percentage
of revenue coming from fixed-price contracts. We monitor turnover, aging and the
collection of accounts receivable through the use of management reports that are
prepared on a customer basis and evaluated by our finance staff. At December 31,
2003,  our  days'  sales  outstanding,   including  unbilled  receivables,   was
approximately  53 days as compared  to 56 days and 59 days at December  31, 2002
and 2001, respectively.

      Our investing  activities  used net cash of  approximately  $37.8 million,
$35.5 million and $15.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and
2001, respectively. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily reflects our
increased   investment   in  property  and  equipment  to  expand  our  offshore
development  infrastructure offset in part by lower spending for acquisitions in
2003.  The increase in 2002  compared to 2001  primarily  reflects our increased
purchases  of  property  and  equipment  to  expand  our  offshore   development
infrastructure   and  the   acquisitions   of  intangible   assets   related  to
UnitedHealthcare Ireland Limited and Silverline  Technologies,  Inc. (See Note 4
to the consolidated financial statements.)

      Our financing activities provided net cash of approximately $21.8 million,
$20.0 million,  and $6.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.  The increase in each year was primarily related to a higher
level of cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options and employee purchases
of stock, partially offset by payment of split-off costs in 2003.

      We believe  that our  available  funds and the cash flows  expected  to be
generated  from  operations  will be adequate to satisfy our current and planned
operations and needs for at least


                                       47


<PAGE>


the next 12 months.  Our ability to expand and grow our  business in  accordance
with current plans, to make acquisitions and form joint ventures and to meet our
long-term capital  requirements  beyond this 12-month period will depend on many
factors,  including  the rate,  if any,  at which our cash flow  increases,  our
ability and  willingness  to  accomplish  acquisitions  and joint  ventures with
capital stock, our continued  intent not to repatriate  earnings from India, our
ability  not to breach the  Distribution  Agreement  between  IMS Health and us,
especially as it relates to our tax indemnities,  and the availability of public
and private  debt and equity  financing.  We cannot be certain  that  additional
financing, if required, will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all.

      We  do  not  engage  in  hedging  activities  nor  have  we  entered  into
off-balance  sheet  transactions,   arrangements  or  other  relationships  with
unconsolidated  entities or other persons that are likely to affect liquidity or
the availability of or requirements for capital resources.

Commitments and Contingencies
-----------------------------

      As of December 31, 2003, we have substantially completed the initial phase
of our Indian development center expansion program,  which was announced in July
2001. The program encompassed the construction of three fully-owned  development
centers containing  approximately  650,000 square feet of space in Chennai, Pune
and Calcutta.

      On December 22, 2003,  we announced  building  plans for three  additional
fully-owned  development centers containing over 600,000 square feet of space in
Chennai, Pune and Bangalore.  As of December 31, 2003, we had entered into fixed
capital  commitments  related to this program of approximately $0.3 million,  of
which  approximately  $0.3 million had been spent.  Total costs  related to this
program are expected to be approximately $42.5 million,  which we expect to fund
internally.

      We lease office space and equipment under operating  leases,  which expire
at  various  dates  through  the  year  2032.  Certain  leases  contain  renewal
provisions and generally  require that we pay utilities,  insurance,  taxes, and
other operating expenses.  Future minimum rental payments under operating leases
that have initial or remaining  lease terms in excess of one year as of December
31, 2003 are as follows (in thousands):

          2004...........................      $  5,573
          2005...........................         4,484
          2006...........................         2,229
          2007...........................         1,296
          2008...........................         1,126
          Thereafter.....................           996
                                               --------
          Total minimum lease payments...      $ 15,704
                                               ========

      We are  involved  in  various  claims  and legal  actions  arising  in the
ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management,  the outcome of such
claims  and legal  actions,  if decided  adversely,  is not  expected  to have a
material  adverse  effect on our  quarterly or annual  operating


                                       48


<PAGE>


results, cash flows, or consolidated financial position.  Additionally,  many of
our  engagements  involve  projects  that are critical to the  operations of our
customers'  business and provide  benefits that are  difficult to quantify.  Any
failure in a customer's  computer system could result in a claim for substantial
damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure.  Although
we attempt  to  contractually  limit our  liability  for  damages  arising  from
negligent  acts,  errors,  mistakes,  or omissions in rendering our  application
design, development and maintenance services, there can be no assurance that the
limitations  of liability set forth in our contracts  will be enforceable in all
instances or will otherwise  protect us from liability for damages.  Although we
have general  liability  insurance  coverage,  including  coverage for errors or
omissions,  there can be no assurance  that such  coverage  will  continue to be
available on  reasonable  terms or will be available  in  sufficient  amounts to
cover one or more large claims,  or that the insurer will not disclaim  coverage
as to any future  claim.  The  successful  assertion of one or more large claims
against us that exceed available  insurance coverage or changes in our insurance
policies,  including  premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or
co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

      The Distribution  Agreement with IMS Health provides,  among other things,
that IMS  Health and we will  comply  with,  and not take any action  during the
relevant time period that is inconsistent with, the representations  made to and
relied upon by McDermott,  Will & Emery in connection with rendering its opinion
regarding the U.S.  federal income tax  consequences  of the exchange  offer. In
addition,  pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, we indemnified IMS Health for
any tax liability to which they may be subject as a result of the exchange offer
but only to the extent that such tax liability  resulted solely from a breach in
the  representations we made to and were relied upon by McDermott,  Will & Emery
in connection with rendering its opinion  regarding the U.S.  federal income tax
consequences of the exchange offer. If we breach any of our  representations  in
connection  with  the  Distribution   Agreement,   the  related  indemnification
liability  could be  material to our  quarterly  and annual  operating  results,
financial position and cash flows.

Foreign Currency Translation
----------------------------

      A portion  of our costs in India are  denominated  in local  currency  and
subject to exchange  fluctuations,  which has not had any material effect on our
results of operations.

Related Party Transactions
--------------------------

      As  described  in  Note 1 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  on
February 13, 2003 (the  "Split-Off  Date"),  IMS Health  distributed  all of the
Cognizant Class B common stock that IMS Health owned in an exchange offer to IMS
Health stockholders (the "Split-Off").  As a result of the Split-Off, IMS Health
is no longer a related party as of the Split-Off Date. Accordingly, our revenues
from IMS Health  subsequent to the Split-Off  Date are classified as third party
revenues.  We  recognized  related  party  revenues  from  IMS  Health  totaling
approximately  $2.6 million,  $20.4 million and $18.8 million in 2003,  2002 and
2001,  respectively.  Total  revenues  from IMS Health  during  2003,  including
related party revenues prior to the Split-Off  Date,  were  approximately  $22.7
million.  In 2004,  we do not expect  significant  change from prior  periods in
revenues earned for services provided to IMS Health.


                                       49


<PAGE>


Effects of Inflation
--------------------

      Our most  significant  costs are the salaries and related benefits for our
programming  staff and other  professionals.  Competition  in India,  the United
States and Europe for professionals  with advanced technical skills necessary to
perform our  services  offered  have caused  wages to increase at a rate greater
than the general rate of inflation.  As with other IT service providers, we must
adequately anticipate wage increases, particularly on our fixed-price contracts.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to recover cost increases through
increases in the prices that we charge for our services in the United States and
elsewhere.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
--------------------------------

      During 2003 and 2002, various accounting  pronouncements were issued which
may impact our financial statements.  (See Note 2 to the consolidated  financial
statements.)

Forward Looking Statements
--------------------------

      The  statements  contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not
historical facts are  forward-looking  statements (within the meaning of Section
21E of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) that involve risks and
uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other
things,  the use of forward-looking  terminology such as "believes,"  "expects,"
"may,"  "will,"  "should"  or  "anticipates"  or the  negative  thereof or other
variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that
involve risks and  uncertainties.  From time to time, we or our  representatives
have made or may make  forward-looking  statements,  orally or in writing.  Such
forward-looking  statements  may be included in various  filings made by us with
the Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  or press releases or oral  statements
made by or with the approval of one of our authorized executive officers.  These
forward-looking  statements,  such as statements  regarding  anticipated  future
revenues,  contract  percentage  completions,  capital  expenditures,  and other
statements regarding matters that are not historical facts, involve predictions.
Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from the
results expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. There are
a number of important  factors that could cause our results to differ materially
from those indicated by such forward-looking  statements.  These factors include
those set forth in the  section  entitled  "Additional  Factors  That May Affect
Future Results."



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

      We believe  that we do not have  operations  subject to material  risks of
foreign currency fluctuations, nor do we use derivative financial instruments in
our operations or investment  portfolio.  Nonetheless,  we periodically evaluate
the need for  hedging  strategies  to  mitigate  the effect of foreign  currency
fluctuations.  We believe that we do not have exposure to material  market risks
associated with changes in interest rates, as we have no variable  interest rate
debt outstanding.  We do not believe that we have any other material exposure to
market risks associated with interest rates.


                                       50


<PAGE>


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

      The financial  statements required to be filed pursuant to this Item 8 are
appended to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A list of the financial  statements
filed herewith is found at "Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and
Reports on Form 8-K."



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      Not applicable.



ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

      Our management,  with the participation of our chief executive officer and
chief financial officer,  evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Rules  13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)  under the Exchange
Act) as of December  31,  2003.  In  designing  and  evaluating  our  disclosure
controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures,
no matter how well designed and operated,  can provide only reasonable assurance
of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applied its judgment in
evaluating the  cost-benefit  relationship of possible  controls and procedures.
Based on this  evaluation,  our chief  executive  officer  and  chief  financial
officer  concluded  that, as of December 31, 2003, our  disclosure  controls and
procedures were (1) designed to ensure that material information relating to us,
including our  consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made known to our chief executive
officer  and  chief   financial   officer  by  others  within  those   entities,
particularly during the period in which this report was being prepared,  and (2)
effective,  in that they provide reasonable  assurance that information required
to be  disclosed  by us in our reports that we file or submit under the Exchange
Act is recorded,  processed,  summarized  and  reported  within the time periods
specified in the SEC's rules and forms.

      No change in our internal control over financial  reporting (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal
quarter ended December 31, 2003 that has materially  affected,  or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.


                                       51


<PAGE>


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  OUR DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

      The  information  relating to our  directors  and nominees for election as
directors  under the heading  "Election of  Directors" in our  definitive  proxy
statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated  herein by
reference to such proxy  statement.  The  information  relating to our executive
officers in response to this item is  contained  in part under the caption  "Our
Executive  Officers"  in Part I of this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  and the
remainder is incorporated  herein by reference to our definitive proxy statement
for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

      We have adopted a written code of business conduct and ethics that applies
to our principal  executive  officer,  principal  financial  officer,  principal
accounting officer and controller,  or persons performing similar functions.  We
will make  available  our code of  business  conduct  and ethics  free of charge
through  our Web site  which is  located  at  www.cognizant.com.  We  intend  to
disclose any amendments  to, or waivers from,  our code of business  conduct and
ethics  that are  required  to be  publicly  disclosed  pursuant to rules of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq National Market by filing such
amendment or waiver with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission and by posting
it on our Web site.



ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The  discussion  under  the  heading   "Executive   Compensation"  in  our
definitive  proxy  statement  for the 2004  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  is
incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.



ITEM 12. SECURITY  OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
         RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      The discussion under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and  Management"  in our definitive  proxy  statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to such proxy
statement.



ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      The  discussion  under the  heading  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related
Transactions"  in our definitive  proxy statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.



ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

      The  discussion  under the heading  "Independent  Auditors  Fees and Other
Matters"  in our  definitive  proxy  statement  for the 2004  Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.


                                       52


<PAGE>


                                     PART IV


ITEM 15. EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND
         REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) (1) Consolidated Financial Statements.

          Reference is made to the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on
          Page F-1.

(a) (2) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule.

          Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statement Schedule on Page
          F-1.

(a) (3) Exhibits.

          Reference is made to the Index to Exhibits on Page 56.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

      On October 21, 2003, we furnished a Current  Report on Form 8-K under Item
9 (pursuant to Item 12)  containing a press  release  announcing  our  financial
results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2003.

      On  December 2, 2003,  we filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K under Item 5
containing a press release announcing our acquisition of Infopulse.

      On December 22, 2003,  we filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K under Item 5
containing a press release  announcing  that,  among other things,  our founder,
Chairman and CEO, Kumar Mahadeva retired.

      Schedules  other  than as listed  above are  omitted  as not  required  or
inapplicable or because the required information is provided in the consolidated
financial statements, including the notes thereto.


                                       53


<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this 12th day of March,
2004.

                                       COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY
                                       SOLUTIONS CORPORATION



                                       By: /s/ Lakshmi Narayanan
                                          -----------------------------------
                                          Lakshmi Narayanan, President, Chief
                                          Executive Officer and Director
                                          (Principal Executive Officer)


                                       54


<PAGE>


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

        Signature                     Title                        Date
------------------------    -------------------------    ------------------

/s/ Lakshmi  Narayanan      President, Chief             March 12, 2004
------------------------    Executive Officer and
Lakshmi Narayanan           Director (Principal
                            Executive Officer)

/s/ Gordon Coburn           Executive Vice President,    March 12, 2004
------------------------    Chief Financial Officer,
Gordon Coburn               Treasurer and Secretary
                            (Principal Financial and
                            Accounting Officer)

/s/ John E. Klein           Chairman of the Board and    March 12, 2004
------------------------    Director
John E. Klein

/s/ Thomas M. Wendel        Director                     March 12, 2004
------------------------
Thomas M. Wendel

/s/ Robert W. Howe          Director                     March 12, 2004
------------------------
Robert W. Howe

                            Director
------------------------
Venetia Kontogouris

                            Director
------------------------
Robert W. Weissman


                                       55


<PAGE>


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.    Description of Exhibit
-----------    -----------------------------------------------------------------

     3.1       Restated   Certificate  of   Incorporation.    (Incorporated   by
               reference  to Exhibit  3.1 to  the  Company's  Current  Report on
               Form 8-K dated February 13, 2003.)

     3.3       Amended  and Restated  By-laws of the Company.  (Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  3.2  to the Company's  Current Report  on
               Form 8-K dated February 13, 2003.)

     4.1       Rights  Agreement,  dated March 5, 2003,  between the Company and
               American Stock Transfer & Trust Company,  as Rights Agent,  which
               includes the Certificate of Designations  for the Series A Junior
               Participating  Preferred  Stock as  Exhibit  A, the Form of Right
               Certificate  as Exhibit B and the  Summary of Rights to  Purchase
               Preferred  Shares as  Exhibit C  (Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated
               March 5, 2003.)

     4.2       Specimen   Certificate  for  shares  of  Class  A  common  stock.
               (Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.2 to  the  Company's
               Amendment  Number 4 to the  Company's  Form S-4 dated January 30,
               2003.)

     4.3       Specimen   Certificate  for  shares  of  Class  B  common  stock.
               (Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to  the  Company's
               Amendment  Number 2 to the  Company's  Form S-4 dated  January 9,
               2003.)

    10.1*      Form of  Indemnification  Agreement  for  Directors and Officers.
               (Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's
               Registration Statement on Form S-1. (File Number 333-49783) which
               became effective on June 18, 1998.)

    10.2*      Amended  and  Restated   Cognizant   Technology   Solutions   Key
               Employees'  Stock  Option  Plan.  (Incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form S-1
               (File Number 333-49783) which became effective on June 18, 1998.)

    10.3*      Amended and Restated Cognizant Technology Solutions  Non-Employee
               Directors'  Stock  Option  Plan.  (Incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form S-1
               (File Number 333-49783) which became effective on June 18, 1998.)

    10.4*      Form of  Severance  and  Non-Competition  Agreement  between  the
               Company  and each of its  Executive  Officers.  (Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's Registration Statement
               on Form S-1 (File Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective on
               June 18, 1998.)


                                       56


<PAGE>


Exhibit No.    Description of Exhibit
-----------    -----------------------------------------------------------------

    10.5*      1999 Incentive  Compensation  Plan, as amended.  (Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001.)

    10.6*      Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan.  (Incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended June 30, 1999.)

    10.7       Distribution  Agreement  between IMS Health  Incorporated and the
               Company  dated  January 7, 2003.  (Incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's  Amendment Number 4 to the Company
               Form S-4 dated January 30, 2003.)

    10.8*+     Form of Stock Option Agreement  between the Company and Wijeyaraj
               Mahadeva  pursuant to which stock  options  were granted on March
               29, 2001.

    10.9*+     Form of Stock Option Agreement  between the Company and Wijeyaraj
               Mahadeva   pursuant  to  which  stock  options  were  granted  on
               February 5, 2003.

    10.10*+    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  between the Company and Lakshmi
               Narayanan  pursuant to which stock  options were granted on March
               29, 2001.

    10.11*+    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  between the Company and Lakshmi
               Narayanan  pursuant  to  which  stock  options  were  granted  on
               February 5, 2003.

    10.12*+    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  between the Company and each of
               Francisco  D'Souza  and Gordon  Coburn  pursuant  to which  stock
               options were granted on March 29, 2001.

    10.13*+    Form of Stock  Option  Agreement  between the Company and each of
               Francisco  D'Souza  and Gordon  Coburn  pursuant  to which  stock
               options were granted on February 5, 2003.

    10.14*+    Agreement and General  Release of All Claims  between the Company
               and Kumar Mahadeva dated December 19, 2003.

    21+        List of subsidiaries of the Company.

    23+        Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

    31.1+      Certification  Pursuant to Rule  13a-14(a)  and  15d-14(a) of the
               Exchange  Act,  as  Adopted   Pursuant  to  Section  302  of  the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer).


                                       57


<PAGE>



Exhibit No.    Description of Exhibit
-----------    -----------------------------------------------------------------

    31.2+      Certification  Pursuant to Rule  13a-14(a)  and  15d-14(a) of the
               Exchange  Act,  as  Adopted   Pursuant  to  Section  302  of  the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Financial Officer).

    32.1+      Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (Chief Executive
               Officer).

    32.2+      Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (Chief Financial
               Officer).

*  A management  contract or  compensatory  plan or  arrangement  required to be
   filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.

+  Filed herewith. All other exhibits previously filed.


                                       58


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                                                                         Page
                                                                         ----
Consolidated Financial Statements:

      Report of Independent Auditors.................................    F-2

      Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of
      December 31, 2003 and 2002.....................................    F-3

      Consolidated Statements of Operations for the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001...................    F-4

      Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001...................    F-5

      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001...................    F-6

      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.....................    F-7

Financial Statement Schedule:

      Schedule of Valuation and Qualifying Accounts..................    F-31


                                       F-1


<PAGE>


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation:

      In our opinion, the accompanying  consolidated financial statements listed
in the index  appearing  under Item 15 (a) (1) present  fairly,  in all material
respects,  the financial position of Cognizant Technology Solutions  Corporation
and its  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  at  December  31, 2003 and 2002 and the
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended  December 31, 2003, in conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion,
the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15 (a)
(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein
when read in conjunction  with the related  consolidated  financial  statements.
These   financial   statements   and  financial   statement   schedule  are  the
responsibility of the Company's management;  our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial  statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.  We conducted  our audits of these  statements  in  accordance  with
auditing  standards  generally  accepted in the United States of America,  which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
whether the financial  statements  are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing the  accounting  principles
used and  significant  estimates made by management,  and evaluating the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 6, 2004


                                       F-2


<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                        (in thousands, except par values)

                                                                 At December 31,
                                                           ----------------------
                                                              2003        2002
                                                           ---------    ---------
                          Assets
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>
Current assets:
   Cash and cash equivalents ..........................    $ 194,221    $ 126,211
   Trade accounts receivable, net of allowances of
     $989 and $861, respectively ......................       52,253       35,092
   Trade accounts receivable - related party ..........         --          1,605
   Unbilled accounts receivable .......................        9,543        4,159
   Unbilled accounts receivable - related party .......         --            149
   Current tax asset ..................................       14,066        3,711
   Other current assets ...............................        8,414        4,907
                                                           ---------    ---------
      Total current assets ............................      278,497      175,834
Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation
  of  $34,168 and $24,559 respectively ................       58,438       39,090
Goodwill ..............................................        4,477          878
Other intangible assets, net ..........................       16,436       12,870
Other assets ..........................................        2,741        2,801
                                                           ---------    ---------
      Total assets ....................................    $ 360,589    $ 231,473
                                                           =========    =========
           Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Current liabilities:
   Accounts payable ...................................    $   9,423    $   6,948
   Accrued expenses and other liabilities .............       53,213       34,539
                                                           ---------    ---------
     Total current liabilities ........................       62,636       41,487
Deferred income taxes .................................       23,883       24,505
                                                           ---------    ---------
     Total liabilities ................................       86,519       65,992
                                                           ---------    ---------

Commitments and contingencies (See Notes 10 and 11)

Stockholders' equity: (See Note 1)
Preferred stock, $.10 par value, 15,000 shares
authorized, none issued ...............................         --           --
Class A common stock, $.01 par value, 100,000 shares
  authorized, 64,337 and 61,260 shares issued and
  outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
  respectively (1) ....................................          643          612
Class B common stock, $.01 par value, 25,000 shares
  authorized, none outstanding (1) ....................         --           --
Additional paid-in capital (1) ........................      118,454       71,446
Retained earnings .....................................      150,973       93,608
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) .........        4,000         (185)
                                                           ---------    ---------
      Total stockholders' equity ......................      274,070      165,481
                                                           ---------    ---------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity ......    $ 360,589    $ 231,473
                                                           =========    =========
</TABLE>

(1)   Restated to reflect the  conversion  of shares of Class B common  stock to
      shares of Class A common  stock on February  21,  2003 and  3-for-1  stock
      split effected by a 200% stock dividend paid on April 1, 2003.

The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.


                                      F-3


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                  COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)

                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                 -------------------------------------
                                                     2003         2002         2001
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
<S>                                              <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues ....................................    $ 365,656     $ 208,657     $ 158,969
Revenues-related party ......................        2,575        20,429        18,809
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
      Total revenues ........................      368,231       229,086       177,778
Cost of revenues ............................      199,724       122,701        90,848
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
Gross profit ................................      168,507       106,385        86,930
Selling, general and administrative
  expenses ..................................       84,259        53,345        44,942
Depreciation and amortization expense .......       11,936         7,842         6,368
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
Income from operations ......................       72,312        45,198        35,620
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
Other income  (expense), net:
  Interest income ...........................        2,128         1,808         2,501
  Impairment loss on investment .............         --            --          (1,955)
  Split-off costs (See Note 1) ..............       (2,010)       (1,680)         --
  Other (expense) income, net ...............         (199)         (235)         (767)
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
      Total other (expense) income ..........          (81)         (107)         (221)
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
Income before provision for income taxes ....       72,231        45,091        35,399
Provision for income taxes ..................      (14,866)      (10,529)      (13,239)
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
Net income ..................................    $  57,365     $  34,562     $  22,160
                                                 =========     =========     =========
Basic earnings per share (1) ................    $    0.92     $    0.58     $    0.39
                                                 =========     =========     =========
Diluted earnings per share (1) ..............    $    0.84     $    0.54     $    0.36
                                                 =========     =========     =========

Weighted average number of common shares
  outstanding - Basic (1) ...................       62,505        59,241        57,051
Dilutive effect of shares issuable as of
  period-end under stock option plans (1) ...        5,402         4,452         4,062
                                                 ---------     ---------     ---------
Weighted average number of common shares
  outstanding - Diluted (1) .................       67,907        63,693        61,113
                                                 =========     =========     =========
Comprehensive Income:
Net income ..................................    $  57,365     $  34,562     $  22,160
Foreign currency translation adjustment .....        4,185           (27)         (108)
Total comprehensive income ..................    $  61,550     $  34,535     $  22,052
                                                 =========     =========     =========
</TABLE>

(1)   Restated to reflect  3-for-1 stock split effected by a 200% stock dividend
      paid on April 1, 2003.

The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.


                                      F-4


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                                           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                                           (in thousands)

                                                                                                        Accumulated
                                     Class A Common         Class B Common                                Other
                                         stock(1)               stock(1)       Additional               Comprehensive
                                  ----------------------    ---------------     Paid-in    Retained       Income
                                    Shares       Amount     Shares    Amount    Capital(1) Earnings       (Loss)        Total
                                  ---------    ---------    ------   -------   ----------  ---------    ------------- ---------
<S>               <C> <C>            <C>       <C>                   <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>           <C>
Balance, December 31, 2000 ...       55,959    $     558        --   $  --      $  28,722  $  36,886    $     (50)    $  66,116
Translation Adjustment .......         --           --          --      --           --         --           (108)         (108)
Exercise of Stock Options ....        1,995           21        --      --          5,117       --           --           5,138
Tax Benefit related to
  Stock Plans ................         --           --          --      --          4,633       --           --           4,633
Employee Stock Purchase
  Plan .......................          111         --          --      --            842       --           --             842
Compensatory Grant ...........         --           --          --      --            340       --           --             340
  Less Prior year charges ....         --           --          --      --           (329)      --           --            (329)
Net Income ...................         --           --          --      --           --       22,160         --          22,160
                                  ---------    ---------        --   -------    ---------  ---------    ---------     ---------
Balance, December 31, 2001 ...       58,065          579        --      --         39,325     59,046         (158)       98,792
Translation Adjustment .......         --           --          --      --           --         --            (27)          (27)
Exercise of Stock Options ....        3,111           30        --      --         18,882       --           --          18,912
Tax Benefit related to
  Stock Plans ................         --           --          --      --         12,111       --           --          12,111
Employee Stock Purchase
  Plan .......................           84            3        --      --          1,128       --           --           1,131
Net Income ...................         --           --                  --           --         --         34,562        34,562
                                  ---------    ---------        --   -------    ---------  ---------    ---------     ---------
Balance, December 31, 2002 ...       61,260          612        --      --         71,446     93,608         (185)      165,481
Translation Adjustment .......         --           --          --      --           --         --          4,185         4,185
Exercise of Stock Options ....        2,979           30        --      --         21,858       --           --          21,888
Tax Benefit related to
  Stock Plans ................         --           --          --      --         22,299       --           --          22,299
Employee Stock Purchase
  Plan .......................           98            1        --      --          2,363       --           --           2,364
Compensatory Grants ..........         --           --          --      --            488       --           --             488
Net Income ...................         --           --          --      --           --       57,365         --          57,365
                                  ---------    ---------        --   -------    ---------  ---------    ---------     ---------
Balance, December 31, 2003 ...       64,337    $     643        --   $  --      $ 118,454  $ 150,973    $   4,000     $ 274,070
                                  =========    =========        ==   =======    =========  =========    =========     =========

(1)   Restated to reflect the  conversion  of shares of Class B common  stock to shares of Class A common stock on February 21, 2003
      and 3-for-1 stock split effected by a 200% stock dividend paid on April 1, 2003.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


                                                                F-5


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)

                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                               -------------------------------------
                                                   2003         2002          2001
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------
<S>                                            <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
Net income ................................    $  57,365     $  34,562     $  22,160
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
  cash provided by operating activities:
       Depreciation and amortization ......       11,936         7,842         6,367
       Provision for doubtful accounts ....          100           510         1,837
       Split-off costs (See Note 1) .......        2,010         1,680          --
       Deferred income taxes ..............         (622)           12         7,791
       Impairment loss on investment ......         --            --           1,955
       Tax benefit related to stock option        22,299        12,111         4,633
        exercises
  Changes in assets and liabilities:
       Trade accounts receivable ..........      (13,442)      (14,663)       (3,833)
       Other current assets ...............      (18,538)       (3,111)       (4,115)
       Other assets .......................        1,334          (370)          300
       Accounts payable ...................        1,785         3,296           803
       Accrued and other liabilities ......       15,635        14,813        (5,819)
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------
       Net cash provided by operating
         activities .......................       79,862        56,682        32,079
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------

Cash flows used in investing activities:
 Purchases of property and equipment ......      (29,991)      (22,268)      (14,953)
 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired .......       (7,823)      (13,196)         --
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------
 Net cash used in investing activities ....      (37,814)      (35,464)      (14,953)
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------

Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from issued shares ...............       24,740        20,043         5,991
Split-off costs (See Note 1) ..............       (2,963)         --            --
Payments to related party .................         --            --              (8)
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by financing activities .       21,777        20,043         5,983
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------

Effect of currency translation ............        4,185           (27)         (108)
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------

Increase in cash and cash equivalents .....       68,010        41,234        23,001
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of       126,211        84,977        61,976
  year
                                               ---------     ---------     ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of year .    $ 194,221     $ 126,211     $  84,977
                                               =========     =========     =========
Supplemental information:
    Cash paid for income taxes during the .    $   3,331     $   2,896     $   3,797
      year ................................    =========      ========      ========

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>


                                      F-6


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

1.  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation ("Cognizant
or the "Company") is a leading provider of custom information  technology ("IT")
services related to IT design, development, integration and maintenance services
primarily  for Fortune 1000  companies  located in the United States and Europe.
Cognizant's   core   competencies   include   web-centric   applications,   data
warehousing,  and  component-based  development  and  legacy  and  client-server
systems.  Cognizant  provides  the IT  services  it offers  using an  integrated
on-site/offshore  business model. This seamless  onsite/offshore  business model
combines  technical and account management teams located on-site at the customer
location  and  offshore at dedicated  development  centers  located in India and
Ireland.

ORGANIZATION.  Cognizant  began  its IT  development  and  maintenance  services
business in early 1994, as an in-house technology development center for The Dun
& Bradstreet Corporation and its operating units. In 1996, Cognizant, along with
certain other  entities,  was spun-off from the Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation to
form a new company, Cognizant Corporation. On June 24, 1998, Cognizant completed
its initial  public  offering of its Class A common  stock.  On June 30, 1998, a
majority  interest in Cognizant,  and certain other  entities were spun-off from
Cognizant   Corporation  to  form  IMS  Health   Incorporated   ("IMS  Health").
Subsequently,   Cognizant   Corporation  was  renamed  Nielsen  Media  Research,
Incorporated.  At December 31, 2002,  IMS Health owned 55.3% of the  outstanding
stock of Cognizant  (representing  all of Cognizant's  Class B common stock) and
held 92.5% of the combined voting power of Cognizant's common stock.

SPLIT-OFF  FROM IMS HEALTH.  On February 13, 2003 (the  "Split-Off  Date"),  IMS
Health  distributed  all of the  Cognizant  Class B common stock that IMS Health
owned (a total of 33,872,700 shares, on a post-split basis) in an exchange offer
to IMS stockholders (the  "Split-Off").  IMS Health  distributed 0.927 shares of
Cognizant  Class B common stock to its  stockholders  for every one share of IMS
Health's common stock tendered. There was no impact on the number of Cognizant's
total shares  outstanding upon the completion of the exchange offer. As a result
of the Split-Off, IMS Health and its affiliates are no longer related parties of
Cognizant as of the Split-Off Date.  Accordingly,  only services  rendered to or
received from IMS Health and its affiliates during the period January 1, 2003 to
the  Split-Off  Date are  classified  as related  party  transactions.  Services
rendered to or received from IMS Health  subsequent  to the  Split-Off  Date are
classified as third party transactions. (See Note 9).

      In connection with the Split-Off, Cognizant was obligated to pay the costs
associated  with the Split-Off (the  "Split-Off  Costs") in connection  with the
exchange offer under the provisions of an  Intercompany  Agreement,  dated as of
May 15, 1998. The Intercompany  Agreement  provided that Cognizant would pay its
own  costs,  without  reimbursement,  and the costs of IMS  Health  (other  than
underwriting discounts, commissions and certain other specified costs) necessary
to  facilitate  a sale or spin-off  of IMS  Health's  ownership  interest in the
Company.


                                      F-7


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      In 2003,  Cognizant incurred direct and incremental costs of approximately
$2,000  resulting  from external  costs  contractually  incurred  related to the
Split-Off.  Such costs  included  direct legal,  accounting,  printing and other
costs,  including a non-cash  charge  calculated in accordance  with  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion  ("APB")  No.  25,  "Accounting  for Stock  Issued to
Employees  and Related  Interpretations"  ("APB No. 25") of  approximately  $488
related to the  retention,  acceleration  and extended life of Cognizant  common
stock  options held by two former  Directors  of  Cognizant  who resigned on the
Split-Off Date as a condition of the Split-Off.  Such former Directors were, and
are, officers of IMS Health.

      Of the total of  approximately  $3,700 of  Split-Off  Costs  incurred  and
recorded,  including  approximately $1,700 recorded in 2002, all costs have been
paid as of December 31, 2003.  Cognizant  did not receive any proceeds  from the
IMS Health exchange offer.

CAPITAL  STOCK.  As of  February  21,  2003,  pursuant to  Cognizant's  Restated
Certificate  of  Incorporation,  all of the  shares  of  Class  B  common  stock
automatically converted into shares of Class A common stock. Accordingly,  as of
February 21, 2003, there are no shares of Class B common stock outstanding.  All
applicable references as to the number of issued and outstanding shares of Class
A and Class B common stock in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
have been restated to reflect the conversion. Stockholders' equity accounts have
been restated to reflect a $339  reclassification  of an amount equal to the par
value of the shares of Class B common stock to the Class A common stock account.

      In connection with the Split-Off,  IMS Health,  as the Company's  majority
stockholder  at that time,  approved  amendments to  Cognizant's  certificate of
incorporation that became effective following consummation of the Split-Off. The
material terms of these amendments:

      o     provide for a classified board of directors;

      o     set the number of Cognizant's directors; and

      o     provide  for  supermajority  approval  requirements  for  actions to
            amend,  alter,  change,  add to or repeal  specified  provisions  of
            Cognizant's  certificate of  incorporation  and any provision of the
            by-laws.

      In connection  with the  Split-Off,  Cognizant's  Board of Directors  also
approved  amendments to Cognizant's  by-laws,  which became effective  following
completion of the  Split-Off.  The material  terms of these  amendments  made to
Cognizant's  by-laws affect  nominations of persons for election to the Board of
Directors  and   proposals  of  business  at  annual  or  special   meetings  of
stockholders. Cognizant's Board of Directors also adopted a stockholders' rights
plan providing certain rights to stockholders under certain circumstances.

      On March 5, 2003,  the Board of Directors  declared a 3-for-1  stock split
effected  by a 200%  stock  dividend  paid on April 1, 2003 to  stockholders  of
record on March 19, 2003. The stock split has been reflected in the accompanying
consolidated  financial  statements,  and all  applicable  references  as to the
number of outstanding shares of common stock and per share


                                      F-8


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

information  have been restated.  Appropriate  adjustments have been made in the
exercise  price and  number of shares  subject to stock  options.  Stockholders'
equity accounts have been restated to reflect the  reclassification of an amount
equal  to the par  value  of the  increase  in  issued  common  shares  from the
additional paid-in-capital to Class A common stock.


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  The consolidated  financial statements reflect the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of operations  and cash flows of the
Company  and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  for  all  periods  presented.  All
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS.  Cash and cash equivalents primarily include time and
demand deposits in the Company's operating bank accounts.  The Company considers
all highly  liquid  instruments  with a maturity of three  months or less at the
time of purchase to be cash equivalents.

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS.  The Company maintains  allowances for doubtful
accounts for estimated  losses  resulting from the inability of its customers to
make required  payments.  The  allowance for doubtful  accounts is determined by
evaluating  the relative  credit-worthiness  of each customer  based upon market
capitalization and other information, including the aging of the receivables.

INVESTMENTS. Investments in business entities in which the Company does not have
control or the ability to exercise significant  influence over the operating and
financial  policies are  accounted  for under the cost method.  Investments  are
evaluated for impairment at least annually, or as circumstances warrant.

PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT.  Property  and  equipment  are stated at cost,  net of
accumulated depreciation.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis
over the  estimated  useful  lives of the  assets.  Leasehold  improvements  are
amortized on a straight-line  basis over the shorter of the term of the lease or
the  estimated  useful  life of the  improvement.  Maintenance  and  repairs are
expensed as incurred, while renewals and betterments are capitalized.

PURCHASED  SOFTWARE.  Purchased  software  that is intended  for internal use is
capitalized,  including the salaries and benefits of employees that are directly
involved  in the  installation  of such  software.  The  capitalized  costs  are
amortized on a straight-line method over the lesser of three years or its useful
life.

GOODWILL AND OTHER  INTANGIBLES.  Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142 "Goodwill and Other
Intangible  Assets" ("SFAS No. 142"),  which requires that goodwill no longer be
amortized,   but  instead   tested  for  impairment  at  least  annually  or  as
circumstances warrant. If an impairment is indicated, a write-down to fair value
(normally  measured by  discounting  estimated  future cash flows) is  recorded.
During the year ended December 31, 2001,  amortization  expense of $317 had been
recorded


                                      F-9


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

using the straight-line method over a period of seven years. Adjusted net income
and adjusted  diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2001,  would have been
$22,477 and $0.37,  respectively,  had the Company applied the  non-amortization
methodology  of SFAS No. 142. Other  intangibles  represent  primarily  customer
relationships  and  assembled   workforce,   which  are  being  amortized  on  a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS. In accordance SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived  Assets",  which was adopted in 2002, the Company reviews
for impairment  long-lived assets and certain identifiable  intangibles whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be  recoverable.  In general,  the Company will  recognize an impairment
loss when the sum of  undiscounted  expected  future cash flows is less than the
carrying  amount of such assets.  The measurement for such an impairment loss is
then based on the fair value of the asset.

REVENUE  RECOGNITION.  The  Company's  services  are  entered  into on  either a
time-and-materials  or fixed-price basis.  Revenues related to time-and-material
contracts  are  recognized  as the  service is  performed.  Revenues  related to
fixed-price  contracts  that provide for highly complex  information  technology
application  development  services  are  recognized  as the service is performed
using the  percentage-of-completion  method of accounting, under which the total
value of  revenue  is  recognized  on the  basis  of the  percentage  that  each
contract's cost to date bears to the total estimated cost.  Revenues  related to
fixed-priced contracts that provide solely for application  maintenance services
are  recognized  on a  straight-line  basis  or  as  services  are  rendered  or
transactions  processed  in  accordance  with  contractual  terms.  Expenses are
recorded as incurred over the contract period.

      Effective July 1, 2003,  the Company  adopted  Emerging  Issues Task Force
("EITF")  Consensus 00-21,  "Revenue  Arrangements  with Multiple  Deliverables"
("EITF 00-21"). For contracts with multiple deliverables,  the Company evaluates
at the  inception of each new contract all  deliverables  in an  arrangement  to
determine whether they represent separate units of accounting.  For arrangements
with multiple units of accounting,  primarily fixed-price contracts that provide
both  application  maintenance and application  development  service and certain
application maintenance contracts,  arrangement consideration is allocated among
the units of accounting,  where  separable,  based on their relative fair values
and revenue is  recognized  for each unit of  accounting  based on the Company's
revenue  recognition  policy described above. The adoption of EITF 00-21 did not
have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company's  financial  position,  results  of
operations or cash flows.

      Fixed-price contracts are cancelable subject to a specified notice period.
All services  provided by the Company through the date of  cancellation  are due
and payable under the contract  terms.  The Company issues  invoices  related to
fixed-price  contracts based upon achievement of milestones  during a project or
other contractual terms.  Differences between the timing of billings, based upon
contract  milestones or other contractual terms, and the recognition of revenue,
based upon the percentage-of-completion  method of accounting, are recognized as
either unbilled or deferred revenue.  Estimates of certain fixed-price contracts
are subject to adjustment as a project progresses to reflect changes in expected
completion  costs.  The

                                      F-10


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

cumulative  impact of any revision in  estimates  is reflected in the  financial
reporting  period  in  which  the  change  in  estimate  becomes  known  and any
anticipated  losses on  contracts  are  recognized  immediately.  A reserve  for
warranty provisions under such contracts,  which generally exist for ninety days
past contract completion, is estimated and accrued during the contract period.

      Revenues related to services  performed without a signed agreement or work
order are not recognized until there is evidence of an arrangement, such as when
agreements  or work orders are signed or payment is  received;  however the cost
related to the performance of such work is recognized in the period the services
are rendered.

      For all  services,  revenue is  recognized  when,  and if,  evidence of an
arrangement  is obtained and the other criteria to support  revenue  recognition
are met,  including  the price is fixed  and  determinable,  services  have been
rendered and collectibility is assured.

ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED EMPLOYEE  COMPENSATION PLANS. In the first quarter of
2003, the Company adopted the interim  disclosure  requirements of SFAS No. 148,
"Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation"  (SFAS No. 148) which amends SFAS No.
123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation"  (SFAS No. 123). SFAS No. 148
provides  alternative  methods  to  transition  for a  voluntary  change to fair
value-based  method of accounting  for  stock-based  employee  compensation  and
requires  disclosures in annual and interim financial  statements of the effects
of stock-based compensation as reflected below. The Company continues to account
for its stock-based employee compensation plans (as more fully described in Note
8) under the  recognition  and  measurement  principles  APB No. 25.  Except for
approximately  $488  calculated  in  accordance  with APB No. 25  related to the
retention,  acceleration  and extended life of Cognizant common stock options by
two former  Directors of Cognizant  included in Split-Off Costs and one grant in
1998 (See Note 8), no employee stock-based compensation cost is reflected in net
income,  as all options  granted under the plans had an exercise  price equal to
the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant and for the
stock purchase plan the discount does not exceed 15%.


                                      F-11


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      Had compensation  cost for the Company's  stock-based  compensation  plans
been  determined  based on the fair value at the grant  dates for  awards  under
those plans,  consistent with the method  prescribed by SFAS No. 123, as amended
by SFAS No. 148,  the  Company's  net income and net income per share would have
been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                                   December 31,
                                           ---------------------------
                                            2003       2002      2001
                                           -------   -------   -------
Net income, as reported...............     $57,365   $34,562   $22,160
  Add: Stock-based compensation,
    expense, net of related tax
    benefit, included in net
    income............................         488        --        --
  Deduct: Total stock-based
    compensation expense determined
    under the fair value method for
    all awards, net of related tax
    benefits..........................      15,495    11,562     7,127
                                           -------   -------   -------
Pro forma net income..................     $42,358   $23,000   $15,033
                                           =======   =======   =======
Earnings per share:
  Basic earnings per share, as
   reported............................    $  0.92   $  0.58   $  0.39
  Pro forma- basic earnings per share..    $  0.68   $  0.39   $  0.26
  Diluted earnings per share, as
   reported............................    $  0.84   $  0.54   $  0.36
  Pro forma- diluted earnings per
   share...............................    $  0.62   $  0.36   $  0.25

      The pro  forma  disclosures  shown  above  are not  representative  of the
effects on net income and earnings per share in future years.


                                            F-12


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)


      For purposes of pro forma disclosures only, the fair value for all Company
options was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes  option model
with the following weighted average assumptions:

Years ended December 31,                  2003        2002      2001
                                      -----------    -----     -----
Dividend yield......................           0%       0%        0%
Volatility factor...................          45%      65%       78%
Expected life (in years):
  Options...........................          4.0      2.9       3.0
  Stock purchase plans..............           .25      .25       .25
Weighted average risk-free interest rate:
   Options..........................          2.70%     2.71%     4.3%
   Employee stock purchase plans....          0.96%    1.60%     3.6%
Weighted average fair value:
  Options...........................         $8.79    $6.68     $5.56
  Employee stock purchase plans.....         $5.17    $3.23     $2.23

      See Note 8 for  additional  information  relating to the  Company's  stock
plans.


UNBILLED  ACCOUNTS   RECEIVABLE.   Unbilled  accounts   receivable   represent
revenues on contracts to be billed,  in subsequent  periods,  as per the terms
of the related contracts.

FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION.  The assets  and  liabilities  of the  Company's
subsidiaries other than the Company's Indian subsidiary ("Cognizant India"), are
translated into U.S. dollars from local currencies at current exchange rates and
revenues and expenses are translated  from local  currencies at average  monthly
exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in a separate
component of stockholders'  equity. For Cognizant India, the functional currency
is the U.S. dollar, since its sales are made primarily in the United States, the
sales  price is  predominantly  in U.S.  dollars  and there is a high  volume of
intercompany  transactions  denominated in U.S. dollars between  Cognizant India
and its U.S.  affiliates.  Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at
historical  exchange rates, while monetary assets and liabilities are translated
at current exchange rates. The resulting gain (loss) is included in other income
(expense).  Currency  transaction  gains and losses,  which are  included in the
results of  operations,  are  immaterial  for all periods  presented.  Gains and
losses  from  balance  sheet  translation  are  included  in  accumulated  other
comprehensive income (loss) on the statement of financial position.

USE OF ESTIMATES.  The  preparation of financial  statements in accordance  with
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  in the  United  States  of  America
requires  management to make estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities,  including the recoverability of tangible and
intangible  assets,  disclosure of contingent  assets and  liabilities as of the
date of the  financial  statements,  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and
expenses during the reported period.  The most  significant  estimates relate to
the allowance for doubtful accounts,


                                      F-13

<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)


depreciation of fixed assets and long-lived assets, contingencies and litigation
and the recognition of revenue and profits based on the percentage of completion
method of accounting for applicable fixed-bid contracts,  income tax expense and
related deferred assets and liabilities,  and purchase price allocation  related
to  intangible  and  tangible  assets  acquired.  Results  could  vary  from the
estimates  and  assumptions   used  in  the  preparation  of  the   accompanying
consolidated financial statements.

RISKS  AND  UNCERTAINTIES.  Principally,  all of the  Company's  IT  development
centers, including a substantial majority of its employees are located in India.
As a result,  the  Company  may be  subject  to certain  risks  associated  with
international  operations,  including  risks  associated  with foreign  currency
exchange  rate  fluctuations  and  risks  associated  with the  application  and
imposition  of protective  legislation  and  regulations  relating to import and
export or otherwise  resulting from foreign policy or the variability of foreign
economic or political  conditions.  To date,  the Company has not engaged in any
significant hedging transactions to mitigate its risks relating to exchange rate
fluctuations.  Additional risks associated with international operations include
difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights, the burdens of complying
with a wide variety of foreign  laws,  potential  geo-political  and other risks
associated  with  terrorist  activities  and  local or cross  border  conflicts,
potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, quotas and other barriers.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK. Financial instruments that potentially subject the
Company to significant  concentrations  of credit risk consist primarily of cash
and cash equivalents and trade accounts  receivable.  The Company  maintains its
cash   investments   with  high  credit  quality   financial   institutions   in
investment-grade,  short-term  debt  securities  and limits the amount of credit
exposure to any one commercial issuer.

INCOME  TAXES.  The Company  provides for income taxes  utilizing  the asset and
liability  method of accounting  for income taxes.  Under this method,  deferred
income  taxes are  recorded to reflect the tax  consequences  in future years of
differences  between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their financial
reporting  amounts at each  balance  sheet  date,  based on enacted tax laws and
statutory  tax rates  applicable  to the  periods in which the  differences  are
expected to affect taxable  income.  If it is determined  that it is more likely
than not that future tax benefits  associated with a deferred tax asset will not
be  realized,  a valuation  allowance  is  provided.  The effect on deferred tax
assets and  liabilities  of a change in the tax rates is recognized in income in
the period that includes the enactment date.

      Cognizant  India is an  export-oriented  company,  which  under the Indian
Income Tax Act of 1961,  is  entitled to claim a tax holiday for a period of ten
years with respect to its export profits.  Substantially  all of the earnings of
the Company's  Indian  subsidiary  are  attributable  to export  profits and are
therefore  currently  entitled to a 100% exemption from Indian income tax. These
tax  holidays  will  begin to  expire  in 2004  and  under  current  law will be
completely  phased out in 2009.  Prior to 2002,  it was  management's  intent to
repatriate   all   accumulated   earnings  from  India  to  the  United  States;
accordingly,  the Company has  provided  deferred  income taxes in the amount of
approximately  $28,594 on all such  undistributed  earnings through December 31,
2001.


                                      F-14


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      During the first quarter of 2002, the Company made a strategic decision to
pursue  an  international   strategy  that  includes   expanded   infrastructure
investments in India and geographic expansion in Europe and Asia. As a component
of this strategy,  the Company intends to use 2002 and future Indian earnings to
expand  operations  outside of the United States instead of  repatriating  these
earnings to the United States. Accordingly,  effective January 1, 2002, pursuant
to APB No. 23, "Accounting for Income Taxes-Special  Areas", the Company has not
accrued  incremental U.S. taxes on all foreign  earnings  recognized in 2002 and
subsequent   periods  as  these  earnings  are  considered  to  be  indefinitely
reinvested  outside of the United States. As of December 31, 2003, the amount of
unrepatriated  Indian  earnings upon which no  incremental  U.S.  taxes has been
recorded is  approximately  $79,525.  If such  earnings are  repatriated  in the
future, or are no longer deemed to be indefinitely reinvested, the Company would
accrue  the  applicable  amount  of taxes  associated  with such  earnings.  The
estimated  effective  income tax rate for the year ended  December  31, 2003 was
20.6%.  This rate compares to an effective tax rate for the years ended December
31, 2002 and 2001 of 23.4% and 37.4%, respectively.

      Deferred  U.S.  income taxes on  unremitted  earnings  from other  foreign
entities have not been  provided for as it is the  Company's  intent to reinvest
such earnings. Such income taxes are immaterial.

EARNINGS  PER SHARE  ("EPS").  Basic EPS  excludes  dilution  and is computed by
dividing  earnings  available  to common  stockholders  by the  weighted-average
number of common  shares  outstanding  for the period.  Diluted EPS includes all
potential dilutive common stock in the weighted average shares outstanding.

RECLASSIFICATIONS.  Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform
to the 2003 presentation.

Other Recently Adopted Accounting Standards.
--------------------------------------------

               In June 2001, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board ("FASB")
issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143
addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible  long-lived  assets and the associated  asset  retirement
costs.  SFAS No. 143 requires an enterprise to record the fair value of an asset
retirement  obligation  as a liability  in the period in which it incurs a legal
obligation  associated with the retirement of a tangible  long-lived asset. SFAS
No. 143 was  effective  for fiscal  years  beginning  after June 15,  2002.  The
adoption  of SFAS No.  143  effective  January  1, 2003 did not have a  material
impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

      In June  2002,  the FASB  issued  SFAS No.  146,  "Accounting  for Exit or
Disposal  Activities."  SFAS No.  146  addresses  the  accounting  for  costs to
terminate  a  contract  that  is  not a  capital  lease,  costs  to  consolidate
facilities and relocate employees,  and involuntary  termination  benefits under
one-time  benefit  arrangements  that are not an ongoing  benefit  program or an
individual deferred compensation  contract. A liability for contract termination
costs should be  recognized  and measured at fair value either when the contract
is  terminated  or when the  entity


                                      F-15


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

ceases to use the right  conveyed  by the  contract.  A liability  for  one-time
termination  benefits  should be  recognized  and  measured at fair value at the
communication  date if the  employee  would  not be  retained  beyond a  minimum
retention  period (i.e.,  either a legal  notification  period or 60 days, if no
legal  requirement  exists).  For  employees  that will be  retained  beyond the
minimum  retention period, a liability should be accrued ratably over the future
service  period.  The  provisions of the statement  were  effective for disposal
activities initiated after December 31, 2002. The adoption of this statement did
not have a  material  impact on the  Company's  financial  position,  results of
operations or cash flows

      In November  2002,  the FASB issued  Interpretation  No. 45,  "Guarantor's
Accounting  and  Disclosure  Requirements  for  Guarantees,  Including  Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 expands on the existing
disclosure  requirements for most guarantees,  including loan guarantees such as
standby letters of credit.  It also requires that at the time a company issues a
guarantee,  the company must recognize an initial  liability for the fair market
value of the  obligations it assumes under that guarantee and must disclose that
information  in  its  interim  and  annual  financial  statements.  The  initial
recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 apply on a prospective basis to
guarantees  issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The Company  adopted the
recognition and measurement  provisions of FIN 45 beginning in the first quarter
of fiscal  2003.  The  adoption of FIN 45 did not have a material  impact on the
Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

      In January 2003, the FASB issued  Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of
Variable Interest  Entities,  an interpretation of Accounting  Research Bulletin
No. 51" ("FIN 46"). FIN 46 requires  certain  variable  interest  entities to be
consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in
the entity do not have the  characteristics of a controlling  financial interest
or do not  have  sufficient  equity  at  risk  for the  entity  to  finance  its
activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties.
The disclosure  requirements of FIN 46 and the  consolidation  requirements  for
variable  interest  entities created or acquired  subsequent to January 31, 2003
became effective for financial statements issued by the Company beginning in the
first quarter of 2003. For variable  interest entities created or acquired prior
to February 1, 2003, the  consolidation  requirements of FIN 46 become effective
for the  Company in the third  quarter of 2003.  The  Company  currently  has no
significant  contractual  relationship  or other  business  relationship  with a
variable  interest  entity and  therefore  the adoption of FIN 46 did not have a
material effect on the Company's  consolidated results of operations,  financial
position or cash flows.

      In April 2003,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 149,  "Amendment of Statement 133
on  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities."  SFAS No. 149 amends and
clarifies  financial  accounting  and  reporting  for  derivative   instruments,
including  certain  derivative  instruments  embedded in other contracts and for
hedging  activities under SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging Activities." The changes are intended to improve financial reporting
by requiring  that contracts with  comparable  characteristics  be accounted for
similarly. Additionally, those changes are expected to result in more consistent
reporting  of  contracts  as  either  derivatives  or hybrid  instruments.  This
statement is effective  for  contracts  entered into or


                                      F-16


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

modified  after  June 30,  2003.  The  adoption  of SFAS No.  149 did not have a
material effect on the Company's  consolidated results of operations,  financial
position or cash flows.

      In May  2003,  the FASB  issued  SFAS No.  150,  "Accounting  for  Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity." SFAS
No. 150 establishes  standards for the classification and measurement of certain
financial  instruments with  characteristics of both liabilities and equity. The
changes are intended to result in a more complete  representation of an entity's
liabilities  and equity and will,  thereby,  assist  investors  and creditors in
assessing the amount,  timing,  and likelihood of potential future cash outflows
and  equity  share   issuances.   This  statement  also  requires  that  certain
obligations  that  could be settled by the  issuance  of equity,  but lack other
characteristics of equity, be reported as liabilities even though the obligation
does not meet the definition of a liability.  The  requirements  of SFAS No. 150
became  effective  for the Company for  financial  instruments  entered  into or
modified  after May 31, 2003, or otherwise at the beginning of the third quarter
of fiscal 2003. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on
the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

3.  SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA

Property and Equipment
----------------------

      Property and equipment consist of the following:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    December 31
                                                               --------------------
                              Estimated Useful Life (Years)       2003       2002
                              -----------------------------    ---------   --------
<S>                            <C>                             <C>         <C>
Buildings..................                30                  $ 18,475    $ 17,574
Computer equipment and
  purchased software.......                 3                    49,992      33,829
Furniture and equipment....               5 - 9                   3,208       1,999
Land.......................                                       1,743       1,705
Leasehold improvements.....    Over shorter of lease term or     19,188       8,542
                               life of asset
   Sub-total...............                                      92,606      63,649
Accumulated depreciation
  and amortization.........                                     (34,168)    (24,559)
                                                               ---------   --------
Property and Equipment -
  Net......................                                    $  58,438   $ 39,090
</TABLE>

      Depreciation  and  amortization  expense related to property and equipment
was $10,451,  $7,516 and $6,368 for the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and
2001, respectively.



                                      F-17
<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities
--------------------------------------

      Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consist of the following:

                                                  December 31
                                              --------------------
                                                2003        2002
                                              --------    --------
     Accrued compensation and benefits...     $ 30,092    $ 17,907
     Accrued taxes.......................        1,497          --
     Deferred revenue....................        4,821       5,075
     Accrued professional fees...........        3,623       3,757
     Accrued vacation ...................        5,015       3,274
     Accrued travel and entertainment....        3,674       2,131
     Other...............................        4,491       2,395
                                              --------    --------
     Total...............................     $ 53,213    $ 34,539
                                              ========    ========

4.  INVESTMENTS

      On  November  24,  2003,  the  Company  acquired  the  stock of  Infopulse
Nederland  B.V.  ("Infopulse"),   a  Netherlands-based   information  technology
services company specializing in the banking and financial services industry for
approximately  $6,400  (including  approximately  $400 of estimated  direct deal
costs) of which approximately $5,400 has been paid to date.  Additional purchase
price, not to exceed 3.5 million Euros (approximately  $4,200),  payable in 2006
is  contingent  on Infopulse  achieving  certain  revenue and  operating  income
targets for the 24-month period ending December 31, 2005. This  acquisition will
allow the Company to improve its service  capabilities  in the Benelux region by
adding local client partners, industry expertise and local language capability.

      On April 1, 2003,  the  Company  acquired  the  U.S-based  company of Aces
International,   Inc.  ("Aces"),   that  specializes  in  Customer  Relationship
Management  solutions,  serving  clients in healthcare,  financial  services and
telecommunications  verticals, for approximately $4,700 (including approximately
$500 of estimated direct deal costs).

      The Company has  accounted for the  acquisitions  of Infopulse and Aces as
business   combinations   under  the  provisions  of  SFAS  No.  141,  "Business
Combinations."  In accordance  with the  provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company
has made  preliminary  allocations  of the  respective  purchase  prices  to the
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired,  pending the completion
of independent  appraisals  when  additional  information  concerning  asset and
liability valuations is finalized.  Accordingly,  the allocations are subject to
revision when the Company receives final information,  including  appraisals and
other analysis. Revisions to the fair values, will be recorded by the Company as
further  adjustments to the purchase price  allocations.  The Infopulse and Aces
assets  acquired  and  liabilities  assumed  have been  included in the European
segment and North American  segment,  respectively  (see Note 12). The


                                      F-18
<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

operating  results of Aces and Infopulse have been included in the  consolidated
financial  statements of the Company,  effective  April 1, 2003 and November 24,
2003, respectively.

      The  Company  recorded  approximately  $3,600 of  goodwill  and  $5,100 of
intangible assets,  principally customer  relationships,  in connection with the
2003 acquisitions.  (See Note 5.) Amortization of $98 related to the acquisition
of amortizable  intangible assets of Infopulse and Aces has been included in the
accompanying  consolidated  statements of operations for year ended December 31,
2003.

      On  June  30,  2002,   Cognizant   Technology  Solutions  Ireland  Limited
("Cognizant  Ireland"),  a newly formed wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company,
purchased certain assets and assumed certain  liabilities from  UnitedHealthcare
Ireland  Limited  ("UHCI"),  a  subsidiary  of  UnitedHealth  Group,  for $3,043
(including approximately $143 of direct deal costs). In accordance with SFAS No.
142, this  transaction  was  determined to be an  acquisition  of assets,  not a
business  combination.  UHCI previously  provided,  and will continue to provide
through Cognizant  Ireland,  application  development and maintenance  services,
using the existing staff of approximately 70 software professionals.

      On October 29, 2002,  the Company  completed  the  transfer of  Silverline
Technologies,  Inc.'s ("Silverline")  practice, which serviced a major financial
services  company to the Company for $10,424  (including  approximately  $620 of
direct deal  costs).  In  accordance  with SFAS No. 142,  this  transaction  was
determined to be an acquisition of assets, not a business combination.

      Under the terms of the transfer,  the Company provides application design,
development and maintenance  services to such major financial  services  company
through an acquired workforce of approximately 300 IT and support  professionals
located primarily in the United States and India.

      In  accordance  with SFAS No. 142, the Company has  allocated,  based upon
independent  appraisals,   the  respective  purchase  prices  to  the  UHCI  and
Silverline tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired. The UHCI and
Silverline assets acquired have been included in the European and North American
segments,  respectively,  (See Note 12).  The  operating  results  of  Cognizant
Ireland  and  Silverline  have  been  included  in  the  consolidated  financial
statements of the Company effective July 1 and October 29, 2002, respectively.

      The  Company  recorded  intangible  assets  of  approximately  $13,200  in
connection with the 2002 acquisitions. (See Note 5.)

      The operating  results of Infopulse,  Aces, UHCI and  Silverline,  for the
periods  included  indicated  above,  were  not  material  to  the  consolidated
operating results of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.

      In June 2000, the Company announced a strategic  relationship with Trident
Capital,  a  leading  venture  capital  firm,  to  jointly  invest  in  emerging
e-business service and technology  companies.  In accordance with this strategy,
the Company invested $1,955 in Questra


                                      F-19


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

Corporation   ("Questra"),   an   e-business   software  and   consulting   firm
headquartered  in  Rochester,  New York,  in return for a 5.8% equity  interest.
Trident Capital also  independently  made a direct  investment in Questra.  This
investment was being accounted for under the cost basis of accounting.

      In the  fourth  quarter  of 2001,  Questra  issued  Preferred  B shares in
exchange for $19 million of venture capital financing. Since the Company did not
participate,  its ownership interest in Preferred A shares was reduced from 5.8%
to 2.1%.  Based on the implied fair value of Questra,  as measured by the latest
round of financing, and considering the preferential liquidation rights that the
Preferred  B  shareholders  received,  the  Company  concluded  that it will not
recover its investment in Questra and recorded an impairment loss of $1,955,  in
the fourth  quarter of 2001,  to recognize the other than  temporary  decline in
value of its investment.

5.  GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET

      Changes in goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2003 are as follows:

          Balance as of January 1, 2003:....      $     878
          Aces acquisition..................          3,599
                                                  ---------
          Balance as of December 31, 2003...      $   4,477
                                                  =========

      No impairment losses were recognized during 2003. There were no changes to
goodwill during the year ended December 31, 2002.  Goodwill primarily relates to
the Company's North American business segment.

      Components of intangibles assets are as follows:

                                                         Weighted
                                  2003       2002      Average Life
                                 -------    -------    ------------
Intangibles:
Customer Relationships......     $17,061    $12,092      10 years
Backlog.....................         120         --     1.8 years
Assembled Workforce.........       1,106      1,104     5-8 years
                                 -------    -------
                                  18,287     13,196
Less: accumulated amortization    (1,851)      (326)
                                 -------    -------
Intangible assets, net......     $16,436    $12,870
                                 =======    =======


                                      F-20


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      All of the intangible  assets have finite lives and as such are subject to
amortization.  Amortization  of intangibles  totaled  $1,485 for 2003,  $326 for
2002, and $0 for 2001. Estimated amortization expenses of the Company's existing
intangible assets for the next five years are as follows:

                             Year          Amount
                        -------------     -------
                        2004.........      $1,899
                        2005.........       1,838
                        2006.........       1,833
                        2007.........       1,813
                        2008.........       1,794

6.  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

      The Company has a 401(k) savings plan which allows eligible U.S. employees
of the Company to  contribute a percentage of their  compensation  into the plan
and the Company matches up to 50.0% of the eligible employee's contribution. The
amount charged to expense for the matching  contribution was $642, $479 and $351
for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 and 2001, respectively.

      Certain of the Company's  employees  participate  in IMS Health's  defined
benefit pension plan and a defined  contribution  plan in the United Kingdom and
Ireland  sponsored  by the  Company.  The  costs to the  Company  recognized  as
postretirement  benefit costs and related  liabilities  were not material to the
Company's results of operations or financial position for the years presented.

      Cognizant   India   maintains  an  employee   benefit  plans  that  covers
substantially all India-based employees.  The employees' provident fund, pension
and family pension plans are statutory defined  contribution  retirement benefit
plans.  Under  the  plans,   employees  contribute  up  to  12%  of  their  base
compensation,  which is matched by an equal  contribution  by  Cognizant  India.
Contribution  expense  recognized was $1,310,  $928 and $790 for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

      Cognizant  India  also  maintains  a  statutory  gratuity  plan  that is a
statutory  post-employment  benefit plan  providing  defined lump sum  benefits.
Cognizant  India makes  annual  contributions  to an  employees'  gratuity  fund
established with a government-owned  insurance  corporation to fund a portion of
the  estimated  obligation.  The Company  estimates  its  obligation  based upon
employees' salary and years of service.  Contribution  expense recognized by the
Company was $1,112,  $752 and $902 for the years ended  December 31, 2003,  2002
and 2001, respectively.

      The Company does not offer any defined benefit plans to its employees.


                                      F-21


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

7.  INCOME TAXES

      Income before  provision  for income taxes  consisted of the following for
years ended December 31:

                                                  2003      2002       2001
                                                -------    -------   -------
      U.S....................................   $17,516    $11,892   $ 7,236
      Non-U.S................................    54,715     33,199    28,163
                                                -------    -------   -------
      Total..................................   $72,231    $45,091   $35,399
                                                =======    =======   =======
      The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following for the
years ended December 31:

                                                  2003       2002      2001
                                                -------    -------   -------
      U.S. Federal and state:
        Current..............................   $ 8,690    $ 6,292    $2,986
        Deferred.............................     4,355      1,565     8,620
                                                -------    -------   -------
        Total U.S. Federal and state.........    13,045      7,857    11,606
                                                -------    -------   -------
      Non-U.S.:
        Current..............................     1,942      2,432     1,466
        Deferred.............................      (121)       240       167
        Total non-U.S........................     1,821      2,672     1,633
                                                -------    -------   -------
          Total..............................   $14,866    $10,529   $13,239
                                                =======    =======   =======

      The following  table sets forth the  significant  differences  between the
U.S.  federal  statutory taxes and the Company's  provision for income taxes for
consolidated financial statement purposes:

                                                  2003        2002       2001
                                                --------    -------    -------
  Tax expense at U.S. Federal statutory rate..   $25,281    $15,782    $12,390
  State and local income taxes, net of
    Federal benefit...........................     1,354        867        361
  Non-deductible goodwill amortization........      --          --         111
  Rate differential on foreign earnings.......   (16,124)    (7,544)        --
  Other.......................................     4,355      1,424        377
                                                --------    -------    -------
  Total income taxes..........................   $14,866    $10,529    $13,239
                                                ========    =======    =======


                                      F-22


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      The  Company's  deferred  tax assets  (liabilities)  are  comprised of the
following at December 31:

                                                  2003       2002
                                                --------    --------
      Deferred tax assets:
        Timing differences................      $  4,711    $    430
                                                --------    --------
      Net deferred tax assets.............         4,711         430
                                                --------    --------
      Deferred tax liabilities:
        Undistributed Indian income.......       (28,594)    (24,935)
                                                --------    --------
      Total deferred tax liabilities......       (28,594)    (24,935)
                                                --------    --------
      Net deferred tax liability..........      $(23,883)   $(24,505)
                                                ========    ========

      Cognizant  has  generated  net  operating  losses for U.S. tax purposes of
approximately  $26.4 million.  These losses have an expiration  date for Federal
purposes through  December 31, 2023. For state purposes,  the date of expiration
varies  but will  generally  be less  than or equal  to the  Federal  expiration
period.

      Cognizant's  Indian  subsidiary,  Cognizant  India, is an  export-oriented
company, which, under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961 is entitled to claim tax
holidays  for a  period  of  ten  years  with  respect  to its  export  profits.
Substantially  all of the earnings of Cognizant India are attributable to export
profits and are therefore  currently  entitled to a 100%  exemption  from Indian
income tax.  These tax holidays  will begin to expire in 2004 and under  current
law will be completely phased out by March of 2009. In 2003 and 2002, the effect
of the income tax  holiday was to reduce the overall  income tax  provision  and
increase  net income by  approximately  $12,423  and $7,683,  respectively,  and
increase  diluted EPS by $0.18 and $0.12,  respectively.  In 2001,  there was no
impact on the Company's overall income tax provision,  net income or diluted EPS
because,  prior to 2002, the Company was providing deferred income taxes on such
untaxed Indian earnings due to its intent to repatriate all accumulated earnings
from India to the United States. Cognizant has provided deferred income taxes in
the amount of approximately $28,594 on all such undistributed  earnings.  During
the first  quarter of 2002,  Cognizant  made a  strategic  decision to pursue an
international  strategy that includes  expanded  infrastructure  investments  in
India and  geographic  expansion  in Europe  and Asia.  As a  component  of this
strategy,  Cognizant  intends to use 2002 and future  Indian  earnings to expand
operations  outside of the United States instead of repatriating  these earnings
to the United States.  Accordingly,  effective January 1, 2002,  pursuant to APB
No. 23,  Cognizant  no longer  accrues  incremental  U.S.  taxes on all  foreign
earnings  recognized  in 2002  and  subsequent  periods  as these  earnings  are
considered to be  indefinitely  reinvested  outside of the United States.  As of
December 31, 2003,  the amount of  unrepatriated  Indian  earnings upon which no
incremental  U.S.  taxes has been  recorded is  approximately  $79,525.  If such
earnings  are  repatriated  in  the  future,  or  are  no  longer  deemed  to be
indefinitely  reinvested,  Cognizant will accrue the applicable  amount of taxes
associated with such earnings. Due to the various methods by which such earnings
could be repatriated in the


                                      F-23


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

future,  it is not currently  practicable  to determine the amount of applicable
taxes that would result from such repatriation.

      Effective  April 1, 2003,  the  government of India passed various tax law
changes which affected the way in which our earnings are taxed in India. The tax
exemption  for export  earnings  was  restored to 100% from 90%.  The surtax was
reduced, decreasing the effective rate from 36.75% to 35.875% for income that is
subject to tax, the corporate level tax on the payment of dividends was restored
and the withholding tax on dividends was repealed.

      The lower  effective  income tax rate of 20.6% for the year ended December
31,  2003 as  compared  to 23.4%  for the  year  ended  December  31,  2002,  is
principally attributed to the reduction in the surtax and the restoration of the
100% exemption on export earnings in India, both effective April 1, 2003.

      Deferred  U.S.  income taxes on  unremitted  earnings  from other  foreign
entities have not been  provided for as it is the  Company's  intent to reinvest
such earnings. Such income taxes are immaterial.

8.  EMPLOYEE STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

      The Key  Employees  Stock  Option  Plan  provides  for the  grant of up to
4,192,500  stock  options  (each  option  exercisable  into one (1) share of the
Company's  Class A common stock) to eligible  employees.  Options  granted under
this plan may not be granted at an exercise price less than fair market value of
the  underlying  shares on the date of grant.  These  options have a life of ten
years, vest  proportionally  over four years and have an exercise price equal to
the fair market value of the common stock on the grant date.

      The Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan provides for the grant of up
to 429,000  stock  options  (each option  exercisable  into one (1) share of the
Company's  Class A common stock) to eligible  directors.  Options  granted under
this plan may not be granted at an exercise price less than fair market value of
the  underlying  shares on the date of grant.  These  options have a life of ten
years,  vest  proportionally  over two years and have an exercise price equal to
the fair market value of the common stock on the grant date.

      In March 1998, the Company granted non-qualified stock options to purchase
an aggregate of 292,500 shares of Class A common stock to  Cognizant's  Chairman
and Chief  Executive  Officer at an exercise price of $4.61 per share, an amount
less than the then fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of the
grant.  The  Company has  recorded  the related  compensation  expense  over the
vesting period of these options.

      The 1999  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  provides  for the  grant of up to
18,000,000  stock  options  (each option  exercisable  into one (1) share of the
Company's Class A common stock) to eligible employees, nonemployee Directors and
independent  contractors.  Options granted under this plan may not be granted at
an exercise  price less than fair market value of the  underlying  shares on the
date of grant. All options have a life of ten years,  vest  proportionally  over
four


                                      F-24


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

years, unless specified otherwise,  and have an exercise price equal to the fair
market value of the common stock on the date of grant.

      The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  "Purchase  Plan")  provides for the
issuance  of up to  2,400,000  shares  of  Class  A  common  stock  to  eligible
employees.  The Purchase  Plan  provides for eligible  employees to designate in
advance  of  specified  purchase  periods a  percentage  of  compensation  to be
withheld from their pay and applied  toward the purchase of such number of whole
shares  of Class A common  stock  as can be  purchased  at a price of 90% of the
lesser of (a) the fair  market  value of a share of Class A common  stock on the
first date of the  purchase  period;  or (b) the fair market value of a share of
Class A common  stock on the last date of the purchase  period.  No employee can
purchase more than $25 worth of stock annually, and no stock can be purchased by
any person which would result in the purchaser  owning more than five percent or
more of the total combined  voting power or value of all classes of stock of the
Company. In accordance with APB No. 25, no compensation  expense was recorded in
connection with the purchase of shares by employees.

      During the year ended  December 31, 2003,  approximately  98,000 shares of
Class A common stock were  purchased by employees  under the Purchase  Plan.  At
December 31, 2003,  there were  approximately  2,028,000  shares  available  for
future issuance under the Purchase Plan.

      A summary of the Company's stock option activity,  and related information
is as follows as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                2003         2003      2002       2002       2001         2001
                             ----------    -------  ----------   -------   ----------   -------
                                           Weighted              Weighted               Weighted
                                            Average               Average                Average
                                           Exercise               Exercise              Exercise
                               Shares       Price     Shares       Price     Shares      Price
                             ----------    -------  ----------   -------   ----------   -------
<S>                          <C>           <C>      <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>
Outstanding at beginning of
  year.....................  11,428,653    $  9.67  12,916,623   $  8.03   11,043,936   $  6.30
Granted, 1999 Incentive
  Comp. Plan...............   4,470,300    $ 22.98   2,077,500   $ 15.07    4,624,800   $ 10.57
Exercised..................  (2,978,988)   $  7.35  (3,112,770)  $  6.08   (1,998,057)  $  2.57
Cancelled..................    (447,550)   $ 15.40    (444,000)  $ 12.14     (715,056)  $ 12.52
Expired....................        (750)   $ 13.56      (8,700)  $ 14.44      (39,000)  $ 17.90
Outstanding - end of year..  12,471,665    $ 14.79  11,428,653   $  9.67   12,916,623   $  8.03
Exercisable - end of year..   4,001,790    $  8.74   3,643,734   $  6.84    3,577,530   $  4.66
</TABLE>

      At December 31, 2003,  1,165,768 options (each option exercisable into one
(1) share of the  Company's  Class A common  stock)  were  available  for future
issuance under the Company's option plans.


                                      F-25


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      The following  summarizes  information  about the Company's  stock options
outstanding and exercisable by price range at December 31, 2003:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

              Options Outstanding                     Options Exercisable
     -----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------
                                    Weighted
                                    Average       Weighted                  Weighted
     Range of                      Remaining      Average                   Average
     Exercise        Number       Contractual     Exercise                  Exercise
      Prices       Outstanding   Life in Years     Price       Options        Price
     --------      -----------   -------------   --------     ---------     --------
<S>        <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>          <C>
  $0.64 -  $0.64      290,050      3.6 Years      $  0.64       290,050      $  0.64
  $1.51 -  $1.67       74,340      4.2 Years      $  1.59        74,340      $  1.59
  $2.69 -  $3.92       86,450      5.4 Years      $  3.81        86,450      $  3.81
  $4.07 -  $5.10    1,074,640      5.4 Years      $  4.15     1,074,640      $  4.15
  $6.93 - $10.31    2,457,246      7.3 Years      $  9.38       807,096      $  9.40
  $10.50 - $15.17   2,821,637      7.2 Years      $ 11.91     1,238,387      $ 11.76
  $15.97 - $23.26   4,906,402      8.9 Years      $ 19.40       430,827      $ 17.95
  $25.07 - $36.50     512,100      9.7 Years      $ 32.82             0      $  --
  $40.00 - $43.16     248,800      9.9 Years      $ 42.84             0      $  --
                   ----------                                 ---------
    Total          12,471,665      7.8 Years      $ 14.79     4,001,790      $  8.74

</TABLE>

      Compensation  cost recognized by the Company under APB No. 25 was $488, $0
and $11 for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.


9.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

      REVENUES.  The Company and IMS Health have  entered  into Master  Services
Agreements  pursuant  to which the Company  provides  certain IT services to IMS
Health. As a result of the Split-Off, IMS Health is no longer a related party to
the Company as of the  Split-Off  Date.  Accordingly,  revenues  from IMS Health
subsequent to the Split-Off  Date are  classified as third party  revenues.  The
Company  recognized  related  party  revenues from IMS Health  totaling  $2,575,
$20,429, and $18,809 in 2003, 2002 and 2001,  respectively.  Total revenues from
IMS Health during 2003,  including related party revenues prior to the Split-Off
Date, were approximately $22,675.

      SERVICES.  IMS Health  provides the Company  with  certain  administrative
services,  including payroll and payables processing, under the provisions of an
amended and restated  Intercompany Services Agreement entered into in connection
with the  Split-Off.  In prior  periods,  IMS Health  permitted  the  Company to
participate  in certain of IMS Health's  business  insurance  plans and provided
certain  other  services such as tax planning and  compliance,  which have since
been  transitioned to the Company.  Total costs charged in connection with these
services  during the period  January 1 through the  Split-Off  Date, in 2002 and
2001 were $28, $656 and $440, respectively.


                                      F-26


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      In  December  2001,  the  Company  paid  IMS  Health  a  one-time  fee  of
approximately  $825 under an alliance  agreement  in which the Company was named
"vendor of choice" for IT services to the pharmaceutical industry.

      The Company  has a strategic  relationship  with The  Trizetto  Group Inc.
("Trizetto") that includes helping its healthcare customers integrate Trizetto's
products  with  their  existing   information   systems  and,  within  Trizetto,
supporting  further  development  of  these  software  applications.  As of  the
Split-Off Date, IMS Health owned  approximately  26.4% of the outstanding common
stock of Trizetto.  The Company recorded revenues from Trizetto of approximately
$831 from January 1, 2003 through the Split-Off Date, $2,577 in 2002 and $401 in
2001.  The  Company  recorded  expenses  related  to  Trizetto   commissions  of
approximately  $9 from January 1, 2003 through the Split-Off  Date, $697 in 2002
and $1,012 in 2001.

      PENSION PLANS.  Certain U.S. employees of the Company  participated in IMS
Health's defined benefit pension plans. The plans are cash balance pension plans
under which six percent of creditable  compensation plus interest is credited to
the employee's  retirement  account on a monthly  basis.  The cash balance earns
monthly investment credits based on the 30-year Treasury bond yield. At the time
of retirement,  the vested employee's  account balance is actuarially  converted
into an  annuity.  The  Company's  cost  for  these  plans  is  included  in the
allocation of expense from IMS Health for employee benefits plans.

10. COMMITMENTS

      The Company  leases office space and  equipment  under  operating  leases,
which expire at various  dates  through the year 2032.  Certain  leases  contain
renewal   provisions  and  generally  require  the  Company  to  pay  utilities,
insurance,  taxes, and other operating expenses.  Future minimum rental payments
under  operating  leases that have initial or remaining lease terms in excess of
one year as of December 31, 2003 are as follows:

     2004...........................        $  5,573
     2005...........................           4,484
     2006...........................           2,229
     2007...........................           1,296
     2008...........................           1,126
     Thereafter.....................             996
                                            --------
     Total minimum lease payments...        $ 15,704
                                            ========


      Rental expense totaled $7,782,  $5,201 and $3,175 for years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

      On December  22,  2003,  the Company  announced  building  plans for three
additional  fully-owned  development centers containing over 600,000 square feet
of space in Chennai,

                                      F-27


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

Bangalore  and Pune.  Total costs  related to this  program are  estimated to be
approximately  $42.5  million.  As of  December  31,  2003,  the Company has not
entered into any significant fixed commitments related to this capital expansion
program.

11.  CONTINGENCIES

      The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions arising in the
ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management,  the outcome of such
claims  and legal  actions,  if decided  adversely,  is not  expected  to have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  business,  financial  condition and
results of operations.  Additionally,  many of the Company's engagements involve
projects  that are critical to the  operations  of its  customers'  business and
provide  benefits  that are  difficult to quantify.  Any failure in a customer's
computer  system could  result in a claim for  substantial  damages  against the
Company,  regardless of the Company's responsibility for such failure.  Although
the Company  attempts to  contractually  limit its liability for damages arising
from negligent acts,  errors,  mistakes,  or omissions in rendering its software
development  and  maintenance  services,  there  can be no  assurance  that  the
limitations  of liability set forth in its contracts  will be enforceable in all
instances  or will  otherwise  protect the Company from  liability  for damages.
Although  the  Company  has  general  liability  insurance  coverage,  including
coverage for errors or omissions,  there can be no assurance  that such coverage
will  continue to be  available  on  reasonable  terms or will be  available  in
sufficient  amounts to cover one or more large claims,  or that the insurer will
not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or
more large claims against the Company that exceed available  insurance  coverage
or changes in the Company's insurance  policies,  including premium increases or
the imposition of large  deductible or co-insurance  requirements,  would have a
material  adverse  effect on the Company's  business,  results of operations and
financial condition.

      The Company entered into a Distribution Agreement,  dated January 7, 2003,
with IMS Health  (the  "Distribution  Agreement"),  that  provides,  among other
things,  that IMS Health and the  Company  will  comply  with,  and not take any
action  during  the  relevant  time  period  that  is  inconsistent   with,  the
representations made to and relied upon by McDermott, Will & Emery in connection
with rendering its opinion regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of
the exchange offer. In addition,  pursuant to the  Distribution  Agreement,  the
Company  indemnified  IMS  Health  for any tax  liability  to which  they may be
subject as a result of the  exchange  offer but only to the extent that such tax
liability  resulted solely from a breach in the  representations  of the Company
made to and were  relied  upon by  McDermott,  Will & Emery in  connection  with
rendering its opinion  regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the
exchange offer. If the Company breaches any of its representations in connection
with the Distribution Agreement, the related indemnification  liability could be
material to the Company's  results of  operations,  financial  position and cash
flows.

12.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

      The Company, operating globally, provides IT services for medium and large
businesses.  North American  operations  consist primarily of IT services in the
United States and Canada.


                                      F-28


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

European  operations  consist of IT services  principally in the United Kingdom,
The Netherlands and Ireland. Asian operations consist of IT services principally
in India, Singapore, Japan and Australia. The Company is managed on a geographic
basis. Accordingly,  regional sales managers, sales managers,  account managers,
project teams and facilities are segmented  geographically  and decisions by the
Company's chief operating  decision maker regarding the allocation of assets and
assessment of performance are based on such geographic segmentation.

      In  accordance  with  SFAS No.  131,  "Disclosures  About  Segments  of an
Enterprise and Related Information."  Information about the Company's operations
and total assets in North America,  Europe and Asia for the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are as follows:

                                   2003         2002         2001
                                 --------     --------     --------
     REVENUES(1)(1a)
     North America(2)........    $325,337     $199,605     $151,933
     Europe(3)...............      40,160       27,886       24,221
     Asia....................       2,734        1,595        1,624
                                 --------     --------     --------
     Consolidated............    $368,231     $229,086     $177,778
                                 ========     ========     ========
     OPERATING INCOME(1)
     North America(2)........    $ 63,888      $39,380     $ 30,435
     Europe(3)...............       7,887        5,503        4,860
     Asia....................         537          315          325
                                 --------     --------     --------
     Consolidated............    $ 72,312     $ 45,198     $ 35,620
                                 ========     ========     ========
     IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
     North America(2)........    $203,168     $133,418     $ 88,328
     Europe(4)...............      26,045       12,972        5,322
     Asia....................     131,376       85,083       51,333
                                 --------     --------     --------
     Consolidated............    $360,589     $231,473     $144,983
                                 ========     ========     ========

(1)   Revenues and resulting  operating  income are  attributed to regions based
      upon customer location.

(1a)  Application development and integration services represented approximately
      41.2%,  42.7% and 48.2% of revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001,  respectively.
      Application  maintenance  services accounted for 58.8%, 57.3% and 51.8% of
      revenues in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.

(2)   Substantially all relates to operations in the United States.

(3)   Includes revenue from operations in the United Kingdom of $37,323, $25,785
      and $19,895 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

(4)   Includes identifiable assets in the United Kingdom of $12,972,  $9,610 and
      $5,269 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.


                                      F-29


<PAGE>


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (in thousands, except share and per share date)

      One customer, JP Morgan Chase, accounted for 10.1% of revenues in 2003. No
third party customer accounted for revenues in excess of 10% of revenues in 2002
and 2001.

13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

      Summarized quarterly results for the two years ended December 31, 2003 are
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                   Three Months Ended
                                                   ------------------
            2003               March 31     June 30   September 30  December 31  Full Year
            ----               --------     -------   ------------  -----------  ---------

<S>                             <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>
Operating Revenue..........     $74,516      $87,446    $98,111     $108,158    $368,231
Gross Profit...............     $33,557      $40,247    $45,143     $49,560     $168,507
Income from Operations.....     $14,524      $17,128    $19,274     $21,386     $ 72,312
Net Income.................     $10,178(1)   $13,502    $15,960     $17,725     $ 57,365(1)

Basic EPS..................     $  0.17      $  0.22    $  0.25     $  0.28     $  0.92
Diluted EPS................     $  0.15      $  0.20    $  0.23     $  0.25     $  0.84(2)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                   Three Months Ended
                                                   ------------------
            2002               March 31     June 30   September 30  December 31  Full Year
            ----               --------     -------   ------------  -----------  ---------
Operating Revenue..........     $46,484      $54,358    $61,233     $67,011     $229,086
Gross Profit...............     $22,295      $25,010    $28,263     $30,817     $106,385
Income from Operations.....     $9,146       $10,702    $12,108     $13,242     $ 45,198
Net Income.................     $7,109       $8,647     $9,667      $9,139 (1)  $ 34,562 (1)

Basic EPS..................     $  0.12      $  0.15    $  0.16     $  0.15     $  0.58
Diluted EPS................     $  0.12      $  0.14    $  0.15     $  0.14     $  0.54(2)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


(1)  Includes split-off costs of approximately $2,000 and $1,700, net of tax, in
     the first quarter of 2003 and the fourth quarter of 2002, respectively.

(2)  The sum of the  quarterly  diluted  EPS does not equal full year EPS due to
     rounding.


                                      F-30


<PAGE>


                  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2003
                             (Dollars in Thousands)

 Description    Balance at   Charged to   Charged to   Deductions/   Balance at
                Beginning    Costs and       Other                     End of
                of Period     Expenses     Accounts       Other        Period
Accounts
  receivable
  allowance
  for
  doubtful
  accounts..     $    861     $    100        --         $    (28)    $    989
Warranty
  accrual...     $    477     $  1,285        --         $    999    $    763

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                      F-31
<PAGE>


                  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2002
                             (Dollars in Thousands)

                Balance at   Charged to   Charged to                 Balance at
                Beginning    Costs and       Other     Deductions/     End of
 Description    of Period     Expenses     Accounts       Other        Period
 -----------    ---------    ----------   ----------   -----------   -----------
Accounts
  receivable
  allowance
  for
  doubtful
  accounts..     $    882     $    510        --         $    531     $    861
Warranty
  accrual...     $    341     $    761                   $    625     $    477


                                      F-32


<PAGE>


                  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2001
                             (Dollars in Thousands)

                Balance at   Charged to   Charged to                 Balance at
                Beginning    Costs and       Other     Deductions/     End of
 Description    of Period     Expenses     Accounts       Other        Period
 -----------    ---------    ----------   ----------   -----------   -----------
Accounts
  receivable
  allowance
  for
  doubtful
  accounts..     $    516     $  1,837        --         $  1,471     $    882
Warranty
  accrual...     $    287     $    501        --         $    447     $    341


                                      F-33


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
