 10-Q 1 bkq2201410-q.htm 10-Q     BK Q2 2014 10-Q  UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-Q[ X ] Quarterly Report Pursuant To Section 13 or 15(d)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934For the Quarterly Period Ended June 30, 2014or[    ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934Commission File No. 001-35651THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware13-2614959(State or other jurisdiction of(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)incorporation or organization) One Wall StreetNew York, New York 10286(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)Registrant s telephone number, including area code -- (212) 495-1784Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    X     No   ___Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).   Yes   X     No   ___Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large accelerated filer    [ X ]Accelerated filer    [    ]Non-accelerated filer      [     ] (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)Smaller reporting company    [    ]Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes   ___    No    X Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATIONSecond Quarter 2014 Form 10-QTable of Contents   PageConsolidated Financial Highlights (unaudited)2  Part I - Financial Information Items 2. and 3. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk: General4Overview4Key second quarter 2014 and subsequent events4Highlights of second quarter 2014 results6Fee and other revenue7Net interest revenue11Average balances and interest rates12Noninterest expense14Income taxes15Review of businesses15Critical accounting estimates28Consolidated balance sheet review28Liquidity and dividends42Capital46Trading activities and risk management50Foreign exchange and other trading51Asset/liability management52Risk management update53Off-balance sheet arrangements54Supplemental information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures55Recent accounting and regulatory developments63Website information68  Item 1. Financial Statements: Consolidated Income Statement (unaudited)69Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statement (unaudited)71Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)72Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (unaudited)73Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (unaudited)74  PageNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements: Note 1 Basis of presentation75Note 2 Accounting changes and new accounting guidance75Note 3 Acquisitions and dispositions76Note 4 Securities77Note 5 Loans and asset quality82Note 6 Goodwill and intangible assets89Note 7 Other assets91Note 8 Net interest revenue92Note 9 Employee benefit plans93Note 10 Restructuring charges93Note 11 Income taxes94Note 12 Securitizations and variable interest entities95Note 13 Preferred stock96Note 14 Other comprehensive income (loss)98Note 15 Fair value measurement99Note 16 Fair value option115Note 17 Derivative instruments115Note 18 Commitments and contingent liabilities121Note 19 Lines of businesses127Note 20 Supplemental information to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows130  Item 4. Controls and Procedures131Forward-looking Statements132  Part II - Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings134Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds134Item 6. Exhibits134  Signature135Index to Exhibits136The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)Consolidated Financial Highlights (unaudited) 2 BNY MellonConsolidated Financial Highlights (unaudited) (continued)(a)The three and six months ended June 30, 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)See  Supplemental information   Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 55 for a reconciliation of these ratios.(c)Non-GAAP excludes amortization of intangible assets, merger and integration ( M&I ), litigation, restructuring charges, a previously disclosed charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives and the impact of the disallowance of certain foreign tax credits, if applicable.  (d)Includes fee revenue, net interest revenue and income of consolidated investment management funds, net of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.(e)Excludes securities lending cash management assets and assets managed in the Investment Services business.  Also excludes assets under management related to Newton s private client business that was sold in September 2013.(f)Includes the AUC/A of CIBC Mellon Global Securities Services Company ( CIBC Mellon ), a joint venture with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, of $1.2 trillion at June 30, 2014 and March 31, 2014, and $1.1 trillion at June 30, 2013.(g)Represents the total amount of securities on loan managed by the Investment Services business.  Excludes securities for which BNY Mellon acts as an agent, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, on behalf of CIBC Mellon clients, which totaled $64 billion at June 30, 2014 and $66 billion at March 31, 2014.(h)The estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios are based on our interpretation of the final rules released by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) on July 2, 2013 (the  Final Capital Rules ), which are being gradually phased-in over a multi-year period.  The estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios assume all relevant regulatory model approvals.  The Final Capital Rules require approval by banking regulators of certain models used as part of risk-weighted asset calculations.  If these models are not approved, the estimated fully phased-in capital ratios would likely be adversely impacted.(i)Beginning with June 30, 2014, risk-based capital ratios include the net impact of including the total consolidated assets of certain consolidated investment management funds in risk-weighted assets.  These assets were not included in prior periods.  The net impact of such consolidated assets for the June 30, 2014 estimated CET1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis was a decrease of 101 basis points under the Advanced Approach and 58 basis points under the Standardized Approach.  The net impact of such consolidated assets for June 30, 2014 regulatory capital ratios, as calculated under the Advanced Approach, was a decrease of 116 basis points to the CET1 ratio, 126 basis points to the Tier 1 capital ratio, and 129 basis points to the Total capital ratio.  The leverage ratio was not affected.  For additional information on these ratios, see  Capital  beginning on page 46.(j)At June 30, 2014, our risk-weighted assets were calculated under the Advanced Approach framework.  Risk-weighted assets at June 30, 2014 under the Advanced Approach does not reflect the use of a simple value-at-risk methodology for repo-style transactions (including agented indemnified securities lending transactions), eligible margin loans, and similar transactions.  The company has requested written approval to use this methodology.  The estimated net impact of such a value-at-risk methodology for June 30, 2014 regulatory capital ratios calculated under the Advanced Approach would have been an increase of approximately 20 basis points to the CET1, Tier 1 and Total capital ratios.  The leverage ratio was not affected.  For additional information on these ratios, see  Capital  beginning on page 46.BNY Mellon 3 Part I - Financial InformationItems 2. and 3. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskGeneralIn this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q,  references to  our,   we,   us,   BNY Mellon,  the  Company  and similar terms refer to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.  The term  Parent  refers to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation but not its subsidiaries.Certain business terms used in this report are defined in the Glossary included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2013 ( 2013 Annual Report ).The following should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.  Investors should also read the section titled  Forward-looking Statements. How we reported resultsThroughout this Form 10-Q, certain measures, which are noted as  Non-GAAP financial measures,  exclude certain items.  BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons using measures that relate to our ability to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within our control.  We also present the net interest margin on a fully taxable equivalent ( FTE ) basis.  We believe that this presentation allows for comparison of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practice.  Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.  See  Supplemental information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 55 for a reconciliation of financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) to adjusted Non-GAAP financial measures.In the first quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon elected to early adopt the new accounting guidance included in Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-01,  Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects - a Consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force.   As a result, we  restated the prior period financial statements to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of the new accounting guidance.  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.OverviewBNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE symbol: BK).  BNY Mellon is a global investments company dedicated to helping its clients manage and service their financial assets throughout the investment lifecycle.  Whether providing financial services for institutions, corporations or individual investors, BNY Mellon delivers informed investment management and investment services in 35 countries and more than 100 markets.  As of June 30, 2014, BNY Mellon had $28.5 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration, and $1.6 trillion in assets under management.  BNY Mellon can act as a single point of contact for clients looking to create, trade, hold, manage, service, distribute or restructure investments.  Key second quarter 2014 and subsequent eventsSale of our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited ( Wing Hang )In July 2014, BNY International Financing Corp., a subsidiary of BNY Mellon, sold our equity investment in Wing Hang, which is located in Hong Kong, to Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately $315 million, or approximately $490 million pre-tax.  Equity income related to our investment in Wing Hang totaled $20 million in the first half of 2014 and $95 million in full-year 2013, including $37 million from the sale of a property. Charge related to certain administrative errorsIn the second quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon recorded a pre-tax charge of $109 million, net of incentives, in connection with the previously disclosed administrative errors relating to certain offshore tax-exempt funds that we manage.  The errors relate to the resident status of such funds.   4 BNY MellonRestructuring chargeIn the second quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon recorded an after-tax restructuring charge of $75 million, or $120 million pre-tax, primarily reflecting severance expense relating to streamlining actions.  Streamlining actions include rationalizing our staff and simplifying and automating global processes across investment services, technology, and operations.Organizational changesIn the second quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon announced a series of organizational changes.   Curtis Arledge, currently Vice Chairman and CEO of Investment Management, added to his responsibilities the oversight for a newly formed BNY Mellon Markets Group.  The BNY Mellon Markets Group includes Global Markets, Global Collateral Services and Prime Services.  Day to day operations of the group will be managed by Kurt Woetzel, the President of the BNY Mellon Markets Group. Brian Shea was appointed Vice Chairman and CEO of Investment Services, in addition to his role as Head of Client Service Delivery and Client Technology Solutions. Tim Keaney, the former Vice Chairman and CEO of Investment Services, announced he will be leaving the company to pursue other opportunities on Sept. 30, 2014. Brian Rogan, Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer, and Art Certosimo, CEO of Global Markets, announced their plans to retire at year end. Monique Herena was named Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Kevin McCarthy was named Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.Corporate headquartersIn May 2014, BNY Mellon agreed to sell its One Wall Street office building in lower Manhattan for $585 million.  BNY Mellon has occupied the 50 story, 1.1 million square foot building since 1989.  The sale is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2014, and is expected to result in an after-tax gain of approximately $200 million, or approximately $345 million pre-tax. BNY Mellon announced that it will relocate its corporate headquarters to Brookfield Place in lower Manhattan s Battery Park City.  This move is part of the Company s previously-announced decision to consolidate and streamline operations.  The 20-year leasing agreement covers approximately 350,000 square feet of office space.Agreement to sell the equity stake in BNY Mellon Western Fund Management LimitedIn May 2014, BNY Mellon agreed to sell its 49% stake in China-based BNY Mellon Western Fund Management Limited to Leadbank Asset Management Company Limited, a Shanghai-based wealth management firm.  The closing of the equity transfer is anticipated to occur in the fourth quarter of 2014, subject to regulatory approval.  We expect this transaction to be immaterial to our results of operations.Acquisition of HedgeMark International, LLCIn May 2014, BNY Mellon acquired the remaining 65% interest of HedgeMark International, LLC, a provider of hedge fund managed account and risk analytic services.  Since 2011, BNY Mellon held a 35% ownership stake in HedgeMark.  Exit from parallel run period for calculating risk-weighted assets under the Advanced Approach ruleOn Feb. 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve announced that BNY Mellon had been approved to exit parallel run reporting for U.S. regulatory capital purposes.  As a result, on April 1, 2014, BNY Mellon transitioned from the general risk-based capital rules to the Final Capital Rules  Advanced Approach, subject to ongoing qualification.  We are required to comply with Advanced Approach reporting and public disclosures commencing on June 30, 2014.  This means, among other things, for purposes of determining whether we meet minimum risk-based capital requirements, starting with the second quarter of 2014, our common equity Tier 1, Tier 1, and total capital ratios are determined using the higher of the risk-weighted assets as calculated under the general risk-based capital rules (which use Basel I-based risk weighting for 2014 and the Final Capital Rules  new Standardized Approach commencing on Jan. 1, 2015) and under the Advanced Approach.BNY Mellon 5 Highlights of second quarter 2014 resultsIn the second quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon reported net income applicable to common shareholders of $554 million, or $0.48 per diluted common share.  Excluding the after-tax impact of the previously disclosed charges related to investment management funds and severance of $161 million, or $0.14 per diluted common share, on a Non-GAAP basis, net income applicable to common shareholders totaled $715 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share, in the second quarter of 2014.  In the second quarter of 2013, net income applicable to common shareholders was $831 million, or $0.71 per diluted common share.  Excluding the after-tax gain of $109 million, or $0.09 per diluted common share, related to an equity investment and the after-tax recovery related to investment management funds of $21 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share, on a Non-GAAP basis, net income applicable to common shareholders totaled $701 million, or $0.60 per diluted common share, in the second quarter of 2013.  Net income applicable to common shareholders was $661 million, or $0.57 per diluted common share, in the first quarter of 2014.  See  Supplemental information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 55 for the reconciliation of the Non-GAAP measures.Highlights of the second quarter 2014 include: AUC/A totaled $28.5 trillion at June 30, 2014 compared with $26.2 trillion at June 30, 2013.  The increase of 9% primarily reflects higher market values.  (See the  Investment Services business  beginning on page 23). Assets under management ( AUM ), excluding securities lending cash management assets and assets managed in the Investment Services business, totaled a record $1.64 trillion at June 30, 2014 compared with $1.43 trillion at June 30, 2013.  The increase of 15% resulted from higher market values, the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar and net new business.  (See the  Investment Management business  beginning on page 20). Investment services fees totaled $1.7 billion, a decrease of 1% compared with the second quarter of 2013.  The decrease primarily reflects lower Depositary Receipts revenue driven by lower corporate actions, lower Corporate Trust revenue and higher money market fee waivers, partially offset by higher asset servicing and clearing  services fees.  (See the  Investment Services business  beginning on page 23). Investment management and performance fees totaled $883 million, a 4% increase compared with the second quarter of 2013.  The increase primarily reflects higher equity market values, the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar and net new business, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower performance fees.  (See the  Investment Management business  beginning on page 20). Foreign exchange and other trading revenue totaled $130 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $207 million in the second quarter of 2013.  Foreign exchange revenue decreased 28% year-over-year primarily driven by lower volatility, partially offset by higher volumes.  Other trading revenue decreased year-over-year reflecting lower derivatives trading revenue.  (See  Fee and other revenue  beginning on page 7). Investment and other income totaled $142 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $285 million in the second quarter of 2013.  The decrease primarily reflects the gain related to an equity investment recorded in the second quarter of 2013, partially offset by higher other income and seed capital gains.  (See  Fee and other revenue  beginning on page 7). Net interest revenue totaled $719 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $757 million in the second quarter of 2013.  The decrease primarily resulted from lower yields on investment securities, partially offset by higher average interest-earning assets driven by higher deposits.  (See  Net interest revenue  beginning on page 11). The net unrealized pre-tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio was $1.2 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $676 million at March 31, 2014.  The increase was primarily driven by the reduction in market interest rates.  (See  Investment securities  beginning on page 32). The provision for credit losses was a credit of $12 million in the second quarter of 2014 driven by the continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio.  (See  Asset quality and allowance for credit losses  beginning on page 37). Noninterest expense totaled $2.9 billion in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $2.8 billion in the second quarter of 2013.  The  6 BNY Mellonincrease primarily reflects the charges related to investment management funds and severance, partially offset by lower staff and business development expenses.  (See  Noninterest expense  beginning on page 14). The provision for income taxes was $217 million (26.7% effective tax rate) in the second quarter of 2014.  (See  Income taxes  on page 15). At June 30, 2014, our estimated CET1 ratio (Non-GAAP) calculated under the Standardized Approach, and based on our interpretation of the Final Capital Rules, on a fully phased-in basis,  was 10.3% compared with 11.1% at March 31, 2014.  Our estimated Basel III CET1 ratio (Non-GAAP) calculated under the Advanced Approach, and based on our interpretation of the Final Capital Rules, on a fully phased-in basis, was 10.0% at June 30, 2014, compared with 10.7% at March 31, 2014.  (See  Capital  beginning on page 46). In the second quarter of 2014, we repurchased 12.6 million common shares for a total cost of $431 million.Fee and other revenue(a)Asset servicing fees include securities lending revenue of $46 million in the second quarter of 2014, $38 million in the first quarter of 2014, $50 million in the second quarter of 2013, $84 million in the first six months of 2014 and $89 million in the first six months of 2013.(b)Results for the second quarter of 2013 and the first six months of 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(c)Excludes securities lending cash management assets and assets managed in the Investment Services business.  Also excludes assets under management related to Newton s private client business that was sold in September 2013.N/M - Not meaningful.Fee and other revenue Fee and other revenue totaled $3.0 billion in the second quarter of 2014, a decrease of 7% year-over-year and an increase of 3% (unannualized) sequentially.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the gain related to an equity investment recorded in the second quarter of 2013, lower foreign exchange and other trading revenue and lower issuer services fees, partially offset by higher investment management and performance fees and higher asset  servicing fees.  The sequential increase primarily reflects higher investment management and performance fees, investment and other income and investment services fees.Investment services feesInvestment services fees were impacted by the following compared with the second quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014: BNY Mellon 7  Asset servicing fees increased 3% year-over-year and 1% (unannualized) sequentially.  The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher market values, the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar, net new business and organic growth, partially offset by lower securities lending revenue.  The sequential increase primarily reflects seasonally higher securities lending revenue and higher market values. Clearing services fees increased 2% year-over-year and were up slightly sequentially.  The year-over-year increase was driven by higher mutual fund fees, partially offset by a decrease in daily average revenue trades ( DARTS ) and higher money market fee waivers.  The sequential increase primarily reflects higher mutual fund, cash management and technology fees, primarily offset by lower clearance revenue driven by lower volumes.   Issuer services fees decreased 21% year-over-year and increased 1% (unannualized) sequentially.  The year-over-year decrease reflects lower dividend fees, partially due to timing, and corporate actions in Depositary Receipts and lower customer reimbursements related to technology expenditures, higher money market fee waivers and the impact of continued net maturities of high margin securitizations in Corporate Trust.  We continue to estimate that net maturities of high margin structured debt securitizations could reduce the Company s total annual revenue by up to one-half of 1% if the structured debt markets do not recover. Treasury services fees increased 1% year-over-year and 4% (unannualized) sequentially.  Both increases reflect higher payment volumes.  The sequential increase also reflects additional business days.See the  Investment Services business  in  Review of businesses  for additional details.Investment management and performance fees Investment management and performance fees totaled $883 million in the second quarter of 2014, an increase of 4% year-over-year and 5% (unannualized) sequentially.  Both increases reflect higher equity market values and the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar.  The year-over-year increase also reflects net new business, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower performance fees.  The sequential increase also reflects lower money market  fee waivers and higher performance fees.  Excluding money market fee waivers, investment management and performance fees increased 5% year-over-year and 3% (unannualized) sequentially (Non-GAAP).  Performance fees were $29 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $33 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $20 million in the first quarter of 2014.Total AUM for the Investment Management business was a record $1.64 trillion at June 30, 2014, an increase of 15% year-over-year and 1% (unannualized) sequentially.  Both increases resulted from higher market values.  The year-over-year increase also reflects the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar and net new business.  Net long-term outflows totaled $13 billion in the second quarter of 2014 primarily reflecting liability-driven and equity AUM, partially offset by inflows of index funds, while short-term outflows were $18 billion.See the  Investment Management business  in  Review of businesses  for additional details.Foreign exchange and other trading revenueForeign exchange and other trading revenue totaled $130 million in the second quarter of 2014, $207 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $136 million in the first quarter of 2014.  In the second quarter of 2014, foreign exchange revenue totaled $129 million, a decrease of 28% year-over-year and 1% (unannualized) sequentially.  Both decreases primarily reflect lower volatility, partially offset by higher volumes.  Other trading revenue totaled $1 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $28 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $6 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower derivatives trading revenue.  Sequentially, the decrease primarily  8 BNY Mellonreflects lower fixed income trading revenue.  Foreign exchange revenue and fixed income trading revenue are reported in the Investment Services business and the Other segment.  Other trading revenue is primarily reported in the Other segment.The foreign exchange trading engaged in by the Company generates revenues, which are influenced by the volume of client transactions and the spread realized on these transactions.  Revenues are impacted by market pressures which continue to be increasingly competitive.  The level of volume and spreads is affected by market volatility, the level of cross-border assets held in custody for clients, the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments and other transactions undertaken by corporate and institutional clients.  These revenues also depend on our ability to manage the risk associated with the currency transactions we execute.  A substantial majority of our foreign exchange trades are undertaken for our custody clients in transactions where BNY Mellon acts as principal, and not as an agent or broker.  As a principal, we earn a profit, if any, based on our ability to risk manage the aggregate foreign currency positions that we buy and sell on a daily basis.  Generally speaking, custody clients enter into foreign exchange transactions in one of three ways: negotiated trading with BNY Mellon, BNY Mellon s standing instruction program, or transactions with third-party foreign exchange providers.  Negotiated trading generally refers to orders entered by the client or the client s investment manager, with all decisions related to the transaction, usually on a transaction-specific basis, made by the client or its investment manager.  Such transactions may be initiated by (i) contacting one of our sales desks to negotiate the rate for specific transactions, (ii) using electronic trading platforms, or (iii) electing other methods such as those pursuant to a benchmarking arrangement, in which pricing is determined by an objective market rate adjusted by a pre-negotiated spread.  Our custody clients choose to use third-party foreign exchange providers other than BNY Mellon for a substantial majority of their U.S. dollar-equivalent volume foreign exchange transactions.  The preponderance of the notional value of our trading volume with clients is in negotiated trading.  Our standing instruction program, including a standing instruction program option called the Defined Spread Offering, which the Company introduced to clients in the first quarter of 2012, provides custody clients and their investment managers with an end-to-end solution that allows  them to shift to BNY Mellon the cost, management and execution risk, often in small transactions or transactions in restricted and difficult to trade currencies.  We incur substantial costs in supporting the global operational infrastructure required to administer the standing instruction program; on a per-transaction basis, the costs associated with the standing instruction program exceed the costs associated with negotiated trading.  In response to competitive market pressures and client requests, we are continuing to develop standing instruction program products and services and making these new products and services available to our clients.  In our historical standing instruction program, known as Session Range, we typically assigned a price derived from the daily pricing range for marketable-size foreign exchange transactions (generally more than $1 million) executed between global financial institutions, known as the  interbank range.   Using the interbank range for the given day, we typically priced client purchases of currencies at or near the high end of this range and client sales of currencies at or near the low end of this range.  In the first quarter of 2014, we upgraded our Session Range program.  The upgrades include pricing pursuant to pre-defined rules and enhanced post-trade reporting, with transactions priced once per day within the interbank range of the day, and subject to application of a price collar, with price being specific to session, pricing location and currency pair.  A description of the pricing rules used in the upgraded Session Range program is set forth in the program s disclosure documentation, which is available to clients and their investment managers.  Separately, the standing instruction program Defined Spread Offering sets prices for transactions in each pricing cycle (several times a day in the case of developed market currencies) by adding a predetermined spread either to an objective market source for developed and certain emerging market currencies, or to a reference rate computed by BNY Mellon for other emerging market currencies.  A description of the pricing rules is set forth in the Defined Spread Offering s disclosure documentation, which is available to clients and their investment managers.A shift by custody clients from the standing instruction program to other trading options combined with competitive market pressures on the foreign exchange business may negatively impact our foreign exchange revenue.  We continue to invest in our foreign exchange trading and execution capabilities, which is leading towards enhanced BNY Mellon 9 customer service and higher volumes.  For the quarter ended June 30, 2014, our total revenue for all types of foreign exchange trading transactions was $129 million, or approximately 3% of our total revenue and approximately 35% of our foreign exchange revenue resulted from foreign exchange transactions undertaken through our standing instruction program.Distribution and servicing feesDistribution and servicing fee revenue was $43 million in the second quarter of 2014, $45 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $43 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects higher money market fee waivers.Financing-related feesFinancing-related fees, which are primarily reported in the Other segment, include capital markets fees, loan commitment fees and credit-related fees.  Financing-related fees totaled $44 million in both the second quarter of 2014 and the second quarter of 2013 and $38 million in the first quarter of 2014. Investment and other income(a)Results for the second quarter of 2013 and the first six months of 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Investment and other income, which is primarily reported in the Other segment and Investment Management business, includes insurance contracts,  revenue from lease residual gains, expense reimbursements from our CIBC Mellon joint venture, seed capital gains, asset-related gains and losses, gains and losses on equity investments, gains and losses on private equity investments, transitional services agreements, and other income and loss.  Expense reimbursements from our CIBC Mellon joint venture relate to expenses incurred by BNY Mellon on behalf of the CIBC Mellon joint venture.  Asset-related gains (losses) include loan, real estate and other asset dispositions.  Transitional services agreements primarily relate to the Shareowner Services business, which was sold on Dec. 31, 2011.  Other income primarily includes foreign currency remeasurement gain (loss), other investments and various miscellaneous revenues.  Investment and other income decreased $143 million compared with the second quarter of 2013 and increased $40 million compared to the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects a gain related to an equity investment recorded in the second quarter of 2013, partially offset by higher other income and seed capital gains.  The sequential increase primarily reflects higher other income, equity investment revenue and asset-related gains, partially offset by lower lease residual gains.Year-to-date 2014 compared with year-to-date 2013Fee and other revenue for the first six months of 2014 totaled $5.9 billion compared with $6.1 billion in the first six months of 2013.  The decrease primarily reflects lower investment and other income, foreign exchange and other trading revenue, lower issuer services fees, and lower net securities gains, partially offset by higher asset servicing fees, investment management and performance fees, and clearing services fees.  The decrease in investment and other income primarily reflects a gain related to an equity investment recorded in the second quarter of 2013.  The decrease in foreign exchange and other trading revenue primarily reflects lower volatility, partially offset by higher volumes.  The decrease in issuer services fees primarily reflects the impact of continued net maturities of high margin securitizations in Corporate Trust and lower dividend fees in Depositary Receipts.  The increase in asset servicing fees primarily reflects higher market values, net new business, the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar and organic growth.  The increase in investment management and performance fees  10 BNY Mellonprimarily reflects higher equity market values and the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.  The  increase in clearing services fees reflects higher mutual fund fees.Net interest revenue bps - basis points.Net interest revenue totaled $719 million in the second quarter of 2014, a decrease of $38 million compared with the second quarter of 2013 and $9 million sequentially.  The year-over-year decrease in net interest revenue primarily resulted from lower yields on investment securities, partially offset by higher average interest-earning assets driven by higher deposits.  The sequential decrease primarily reflects higher premium amortization on agency mortgage-backed securities.The net interest margin (FTE) was 0.98% in the second quarter of 2014 compared with 1.15% in the second quarter of 2013 and 1.05% in the first quarter of 2014.  Both decreases in the net interest margin (FTE) primarily reflect the factors mentioned above.In the second half of 2014, we are planning to reduce our interbank placement assets and increase our securities portfolio inventory of high quality liquid assets.  The anticipated revenue as a result of these tactical actions should mitigate the impact on our net interest revenue as a result of: the European Central Bank s reduction in their deposit rate to negative, and the resulting impact on lower reinvestment rates across the euro yield curve; as well as prolonged low reinvestment rates in the U.S. Year-to-date 2014 compared with year-to-date 2013 Net interest revenue totaled $1.4 billion in the first six months of 2014, a decrease of 2% compared with the first six months of 2013.  The decrease in net interest revenue primarily resulted from lower yields on investment securities, partially offset by a change in the mix of interest-earnings assets and higher average interest-earning assets driven by higher deposits.  The net interest margin (FTE) was 1.02% in the first six months of 2014, compared with 1.13% in the first six months of 2013.  The decline in the net interest margin (FTE) primarily reflects the factors mentioned above.BNY Mellon 11 Note:Interest and average rates were calculated on a taxable equivalent basis, at tax rates approximating 35%, using dollar amounts in thousands and actual number of days in the year.   12 BNY MellonNote:Interest and average rates were calculated on a taxable equivalent basis, at tax rates approximating 35%, using dollar amounts in thousands and actual number of days in the year.  BNY Mellon 13 Noninterest expense(a)Results for the second quarter of 2013 and the first six months of 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.N/M - Not meaningful.Total noninterest expense was $2.9 billion in the second quarter of 2014, an increase of 4% year-over-year or 8% (unannualized) sequentially.  In the second quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon recorded a charge of $109 million, net of incentives, in connection with administrative errors related to certain investment management funds and a restructuring charge of $120 million.  Excluding amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives (Non-GAAP), noninterest expense decreased 4% year-over-year and 2% (unannualized) sequentially.  Both decreases were primarily driven by a 5% reduction in staff expense despite the impact of regulatory, risk and control-related expenses.  The year-over-year decrease also benefited from lower business development expenses.We continue to invest in our compliance, risk and other control functions in light of increasing  regulatory requirements.  While our expenses remain high in those areas as a result of the need to hire additional staff and advisors and to enhance our technology platforms, we expect the rate of related expense growth to begin to slow as new rules are implemented.Staff expenseGiven our mix of fee-based businesses, which are staffed with high-quality professionals, staff expense comprised 55% of total noninterest expense in the second quarter of 2014, 55% in the second quarter of 2013 and 56% in the first quarter of 2014, excluding amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives.Staff expense was $1.4 billion in the second quarter of 2014, a decrease of 5% compared with the second  14 BNY Mellonquarter of 2013 and a decrease of 5% (unannualized) compared with the first quarter of 2014.  Both decreases primarily reflect lower incentives and pension expenses.Non-staff expenseNon-staff expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges, and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives, totaled $1.2 billion on a non-GAAP basis in the second quarter of 2014, a decrease of 5% compared with the second quarter of 2013 and an increase of 1% (unannualized) compared with the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower business development expense.  The sequential increase was primarily driven by higher volume-related expenses.The financial services industry has seen a continuing increase in the level of litigation and enforcement activity.  As a result, we anticipate our legal and litigation costs to continue at elevated levels.  For additional information on our legal proceedings, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.In the second quarter of 2014, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $120 million, primarily reflecting severance expense related to streamlining actions.  For additional information on restructuring charges, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Year-to-date 2014 compared with year-to-date 2013Noninterest expense totaled $5.7 billion in the first six months of 2014, an increase of $35 million, or 1%, compared with the first six months of 2013.  The increase primarily reflects the restructuring charge and the charge related to investment management funds, net of incentives discussed above, partially offset by lower litigation and incentive expenses, the cost of generating certain tax credits, and pension and business development expenses.Income taxes The provision for income taxes was $217 million in the second quarter of 2014, $339 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $232 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The effective tax rate was 26.7% in  the second quarter of 2014, 27.7% in the second quarter of 2013 and 25.1% in the first quarter of 2014.In the first quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon adopted ASU 2014-01,  Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects - a Consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force .  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of the retrospective application of this new accounting guidance.We expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 27% in the third quarter of 2014.Review of businessesWe have an internal information system that produces performance data along product and service lines for our two principal businesses and the Other segment.Business accounting principlesOur business data has been determined on an internal management basis of accounting, rather than the generally accepted accounting principles used for consolidated financial reporting.  These measurement principles are designed so that reported results of the businesses will track their economic performance. For information on the accounting principles of our businesses, the primary types of revenue by business and how our businesses are presented and analyzed, see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Business results are subject to reclassification whenever organizational changes are made or when improvements are made in the measurement principles.  During the second quarter of 2014, minor reclassifications were made to our business results.  All prior periods have been restated.  Results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 have been restated to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. BNY Mellon 15 Restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2014 relate to corporate-level initiatives and were therefore recorded in the Other segment.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, restructuring charges were recorded in the businesses.  Prior to the fourth quarter of 2013, restructuring charges were reported in the Other segment.The results of our businesses may be influenced by client activities that vary by quarter.  In the second quarter, we typically experience an increase in securities lending fees due to an increase in demand  to borrow securities outside of the United States.  In the third quarter, Depositary Receipts revenue is typically higher due to an increased level of client dividend payments paid in the quarter.  Also in the third quarter, volume-related fees may decline due to reduced client activity.  In the fourth quarter, we typically incur higher business development and marketing expenses.  In our Investment Management business, performance fees are typically higher in the fourth quarter, as the fourth quarter represents the end of the measurement period for many of the performance fee-eligible relationships.The following table presents key market metrics at period end and on an average basis.(a)Period end.(b)Unhedged in U.S. dollar terms.(c)The JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index is based on the implied volatility in 3-month currency options.bps   basis points.Fee revenue in Investment Management, and to a lesser extent in Investment Services, is impacted by the value of market indices.  At June 30, 2014, using the Standard & Poor s ( S&P ) 500 Index as a proxy for the global equity markets, we estimate that a 100-point change in the value of the S&P 500 Index  spread evenly throughout the year, would impact fee revenue by less than 1% and diluted earnings per common share by $0.02 to $0.04.  If however, global equity markets do not perform in line with the S&P 500 Index, the impact to fee revenue and earnings per share could be different. 16 BNY MellonThe following consolidating schedules show the contribution of our businesses to our overall profitability.(a)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $46 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $17 million, for a net impact of $29 million.  Income (loss) before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $17 million.(b)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.(a)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $36 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $20 million, for a net impact of $16 million.  Income before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $20 million.(b)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.BNY Mellon 17 (a)Other segment and consolidated results have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $65 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $39 million, for a net impact of $26 million.  Income before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $39 million.(c)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.(a)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $82 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $37 million, for a net impact of $45 million.  Income (loss) before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $37 million.(b)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful. 18 BNY Mellon(a)Other segment and consolidated results have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $115 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $55 million, for a net impact of $60 million.  Income before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $55 million.(c)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.BNY Mellon 19 Investment Management business(a)Total fee and other revenue includes the impact of the consolidated investment management funds.  Adjusted pre-tax operating margin includes the pro forma impact of money market fee waivers, is net of distribution and servicing expense and excludes amortization of intangible assets and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives.  See  Supplemental information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 55 for the reconciliation of Non-GAAP measures.N/M - Not meaningful. 20 BNY Mellon(a)Excludes securities lending cash management assets and assets managed in the Investment Services business.  Also excludes assets under management related to Newton s private client business that was sold in September 2013.(b)Includes currency and overlay assets under management.Business descriptionOur Investment Management business is comprised of our affiliated investment management boutiques, wealth management business and global distribution companies.  See page 22 of our 2013 Annual Report for additional information on our Investment Management business.  Review of financial resultsInvestment management and performance fees are dependent on the overall level and mix of AUM and the management fees expressed in basis points (one-hundredth of one percent) charged for managing those assets.  Assets under management were a record $1.64 trillion at June 30, 2014 compared with $1.43 trillion at June 30, 2013 and $1.62 trillion at March 31, 2014.  Both increases primarily resulted from higher market values.  The year-over-year increase also reflects the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar and net new business.  Net long-term outflows  were $13 billion in the second quarter of 2014 reflecting liability-driven and equity AUM, partially offset by inflows of index funds.  The outflow of liability-driven investment reflects one customer that in-sourced its business.  Short-term outflows were $18 billion in the second quarter of 2014.  Total revenue was $1.04 billion, an increase of 6% compared with the second quarter of 2013 and an increase of 7% (unannualized) compared with the first quarter of 2014.  Both increases primarily reflect higher equity market values, higher seed capital gains and the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar.  The year-over-year increase was partially offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower performance fees.  The sequential increase was also driven by lower money market fee waivers and higher performance fees.  Excluding money market fee waivers, total revenue increased 7% year-over-year and 6% (unannualized) sequentially.  Revenue generated in the Investment Management business included 45% from non-U.S. sources in the second BNY Mellon 21 quarter of 2014 compared with 46% in the second quarter of 2013 and 45% in the first quarter of 2014. Investment management fees in the Investment Management business were $852 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $811 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $824 million in the first quarter of 2014.  Both increases primarily reflect higher equity market values and the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar.  The year-over-year increase also reflects net new business, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.  The sequential increase was also driven by lower money market fee waivers.In the second quarter of 2014, 37% of investment management fees in the Investment Management business were generated from managed mutual fund fees.  These fees are based on the daily average net assets of each fund and the management fee paid by that fund.  Managed mutual fund fee revenue was $311 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $299 million in both the second quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014.  Both increases primarily reflect higher equity market values.Performance fees were $29 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $33 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $20 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The sequential increase was due to seasonality. Distribution and servicing fees were $41 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $44 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $40 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects higher money market fee waivers. Other fee revenue was $48 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $24 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $16 million in the first quarter of 2014.  Both increases primarily reflect higher seed capital gains. Net interest revenue was $66 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $63 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $70 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher average loans, while the sequential decrease primarily resulted from lower average deposits.  Average loans increased 12% year-over-year and 3% sequentially, while average deposits increased 1% year-over-year and decreased 9% sequentially. Noninterest expense excluding amortization of intangible assets and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives, was $725 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $692 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $698 million in the first quarter of 2014.  Both increases primarily reflect the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar and higher staff and marketing expenses resulting from investments in strategic initiatives.Year-to-date 2014 compared with year-to-date 2013Income before taxes totaled $417 million in the first six months of 2014 compared with $477 million in the first six months of 2013.  Income before taxes excluding amortization of intangible assets and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives, was $583 million in the first six months of 2014 compared with $567 million in the first six months of 2013.  Fee and other revenue increased $77 million compared with the first six months of 2013, primarily due to higher equity market values, the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar, and higher seed capital gains, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.  Net interest revenue increased $11 million compared to the first six months of 2013, primarily due to higher average loans and deposits.  Noninterest expense excluding amortization of intangible assets and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives, increased $72 million compared to the first six months of 2013, primarily reflecting the average impact of a weaker U.S. dollar, higher marketing expenses resulting from investments in strategic initiatives and higher staff expense.   22 BNY MellonInvestment Services business (a)Total fee and other revenue includes investment management fees and distribution and servicing revenue.(b)Noninterest expense excludes amortization of intangible assets and litigation expense.(d)Represents the total amount of securities on loan managed by the Investment Services business.  Excludes securities for which BNY Mellon acts as agent, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, on behalf of CIBC Mellon clients, which totaled $62 billion at Dec. 31, 2013, $66 billion at March 31, 2014 and $64 billion at June 30, 2014.N/M - Not meaningful.BNY Mellon 23 Business description Our Investment Services business provides global custody and related services, broker-dealer services, global collateral services, corporate trust and depositary receipt and clearing services, as well as global payment/working capital solutions to global financial institutional clients.Our comprehensive suite of financial solutions includes: global custody, global fund services, securities lending, investment manager outsourcing, performance and risk analytics, alternative investment services, securities clearance, collateral management, corporate trust, American and global depositary receipt programs, cash management solutions, payment services, liquidity services and other linked revenues, principally foreign exchange, global clearing and execution, managed account services and global prime brokerage solutions.  Our clients include corporations, public funds and government agencies, foundations and endowments; global financial institutions including banks, broker-dealers, asset managers, insurance companies and central banks; financial intermediaries and independent registered investment advisors; and hedge fund managers.  We help our clients service their financial assets through a network of offices and operations centers in 35 countries across six continents.The results of this business are driven by a number of factors, which include: the level of transaction activity; the range of services provided, including custody, accounting, fund administration, daily valuations, performance measurement and risk analytics, securities lending, and investment manager back-office outsourcing; the number of accounts; and the market value of assets under custody and/or administration.  Market interest rates impact both securities lending revenue and the earnings on client deposit balances.  Business expenses are driven by staff, technology investment, equipment and space required to support the services provided by the business and the cost of execution, clearance and custody of securities.  We are one of the leading global securities servicing providers with $28.5 trillion of AUC/A at June 30, 2014.  We are the largest custodian for U.S. corporate and public pension plans and we service 40% of the top 50 endowments.  We are a leading custodian in the UK and service 20% of UK pensions that require  a custodian.  Globalization tends to drive cross-border investment and capital flows, which increases the opportunity to provide solutions to our clients.  The changing regulatory environment is also driving demand for new products and services among clients.BNY Mellon is a leader in both global securities and U.S. Government securities clearance.  We settle securities transactions in over 100 markets and handle most of the transactions cleared through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for 18 of the 22 primary dealers.  We are a leader in servicing tri-party repo collateral with approximately $2 trillion globally.  We currently service approximately $1.4 trillion of the $1.6 trillion tri-party repo market in the U.S. BNY Mellon offers tri-party collateral agency services to dealers and cash investors active in the tri-party repurchase, or repo, market.  We currently have approximately 86% of the market share of the U.S. tri-party repo market.  As agent, we facilitate settlement between dealers (cash borrowers) and investors (cash lenders).  Our involvement in a transaction commences after a dealer and investor agree to a tri-party repo trade and send instructions to us.  We maintain custody of the collateral (the subject securities of the repo), monitor the eligibility and sufficiency of the collateral, and execute the payment and delivery instructions agreed to and provided by the principals.BNY Mellon continues to work to significantly reduce the risk associated with the secured intraday credit it provides to dealers with respect to their tri-party repo trades.  BNY Mellon has implemented several important measures in that regard, including reducing the amount of time during which we extend intraday credit, implementing three-way trade confirmations, reducing the amount of credit provided in connection with processing collateral substitutions, introducing a functionality that enables us to  roll  maturing trades into new trades without extending credit, and requiring dealers to prefund their repayment obligations in connection with trades collateralized by Depository Trust Company sourced securities.  Additionally, in 2013, we limited the collateral eligible to secure intraday credit to certain more liquid asset classes, resulting in a reduction of exposures secured by less liquid forms of collateral.  We anticipate that the combination of these measures will have reduced risks substantially in our tri-party repo activity in the near term and, together with  24 BNY Mellontechnology enhancements currently in development, will achieve the practical elimination (defined as a 90% reduction) of intraday credit related to tri-party repo processing by the end of 2014.These efforts are consistent with the recommendations of the Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform Task Force (the  Task Force ) that was sponsored by the Payment Risk Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and included representatives from a diverse group of market participants, including BNY Mellon.Since May 2010, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has released monthly reports on the tri-party repo market, including information on aggregate volumes of collateral used in all tri-party repo transactions by asset class, concentrations, and margin levels, which are available at http://www.newyorkfed.org/banking/tpr_infr_reform.html.Global Collateral Services serves broker-dealers and institutional investors facing expanding collateral management needs as a result of current and emerging regulatory and market requirements.  Global Collateral Services brings together BNY Mellon s global capabilities in segregating, optimizing, financing and transforming collateral on behalf of clients, including its market leading broker-dealer collateral management, securities lending, collateral financing, liquidity and derivatives services teams.In securities lending, we are one of the largest lenders of U.S. Treasury securities and depositary receipts and service a lending pool of approximately $3 trillion in 31 markets.We serve as depositary for 1,316 sponsored American and global depositary receipt programs at June 30, 2014, acting in partnership with leading companies from 66 countries - an estimated 60% global market share.Pershing and its affiliates provide business solutions to approximately 1,600 financial organizations globally by delivering dependable operational support; robust trading services; flexible technology; and an expansive array of investment solutions, practice management support and service excellence. Role of BNY Mellon, as a trustee, for mortgage-backed securitizationsBNY Mellon acts as trustee and document custodian for certain mortgage-backed security ( MBS ) securitization trusts.  The role of trustee for MBS securitizations is limited; our primary role as trustee is to calculate and distribute monthly bond payments to bondholders.  As a document custodian, we hold the mortgage, note, and related documents provided to us by the loan originator or seller and provide periodic reporting to these parties.  BNY Mellon, either as document custodian or trustee, does not receive mortgage underwriting files (the files that contain information related to the creditworthiness of the borrower).  As trustee or custodian, we have no responsibility or liability for the quality of the portfolio; we are liable only for performance of our limited duties as described above and in the trust documents.  BNY Mellon is indemnified by the servicers or directly from trust assets under the governing agreements.  BNY Mellon may appear as the named plaintiff in legal actions brought by servicers in foreclosure and other related proceedings because the trustee is the nominee owner of the mortgage loans within the trusts.  BNY Mellon also has been named as a defendant in legal actions brought by MBS investors alleging that the trustee has expansive duties under the governing agreements, including to investigate and pursue claims against other parties to the MBS transaction.  For additional information on our legal proceedings related to this matter, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Corporate Trust updateThe Company has evaluated the possibility of selling the Corporate Trust business, and has concluded that retaining the business would maximize its value to our Company and shareholders.  While the business has been impacted in the near-term by the macro environment, Corporate Trust remains a global market leader, continues to win new business and is well positioned to benefit from an increase in short-term interest rates.Review of financial resultsAUC/A at June 30, 2014 were $28.5 trillion, an increase of 9% from $26.2 trillion at June 30, 2013, and 2% from $27.9 trillion at March 31, 2014.  Both BNY Mellon 25 increases were primarily driven by higher market values.  The sequential increase also reflects net new business.  AUC/A were comprised of 36% equity securities and 64% fixed income securities at June 30, 2014 compared with 34% equity securities and 66% fixed income securities at June 30, 2013.Revenue generated in the Investment Services business included 37% from non-U.S. sources in the second quarter of 2014 compared with 36% in the second quarter of 2013 and 35% in the first quarter of 2014.Investment services fees decreased $22 million, or 1%, in the second quarter of 2014 compared with the second quarter of 2013 and increased $18 million or 1% (unannualized), compared with the first quarter of 2014 reflecting the following factors: Asset servicing fees (global custody, broker-dealer services and global collateral services) were $993 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $961 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $985 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher market values, the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar, net new business and organic growth, partially offset by lower securities lending revenue.  The sequential increase primarily reflects seasonally higher securities lending revenue and higher market values. Clearing services fees were $324 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $320 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $323 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year increase was driven by higher mutual fund fees, partially offset by a decrease in DARTS and higher money market fee waivers.  Sequentially, the increase primarily reflects higher mutual fund, cash management and technology fees, primarily offset by lower clearance revenue driven by lower volumes. Issuer services fees (Corporate Trust and Depositary Receipts) were $231 million in the second quarter of 2014, compared with $294 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $228 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease reflects lower dividend fees, partially due to timing, and corporate actions in Depositary Receipts and lower customer reimbursements related to technology expenditures, higher money market fee waivers  and the impact of continued net maturities of high margin securitizations in Corporate Trust. Treasury services fees were $140 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $135 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $134 million in the first quarter of 2014.  Both increases primarily reflect higher payment volumes.  The sequential increase also reflects additional business days.Foreign exchange and other trading revenue totaled  $145 million in the second quarter of 2014, compared with $193 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $158 million in the first quarter of 2014.  Both decreases primarily reflect lower volatility, partially offset by higher volumes.Net interest revenue was $593 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $633 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $590 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower yields, partially offset by higher average deposits.  The sequential increase primarily reflects additional days in the second quarter of 2014 and higher average deposits.Noninterest expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, was $1.82 billion in the second quarter of 2014, compared with $1.83 billion in the second quarter of 2013 and $1.78 billion in the first quarter of 2014.  Year-over-year expenses decreased slightly reflecting our continued focus on expense control.  The sequential increase was primarily driven by higher sub-custodian, litigation and professional, legal and other purchased services expenses.Year-to-date 2014 compared with year-to-date 2013Income before taxes totaled $1.3 billion in the first six months of 2014 compared with $1.4 billion in the first six months of 2013.  Excluding intangible amortization, income before taxes decreased $107 million.  Fee and other revenue decreased $24 million reflecting lower issuer services fees and  foreign exchange and other trading revenue primarily driven by lower volatility, partially offset by higher asset servicing fees, driven by net new business and higher market values, and higher mutual fund fees. The $103 million decrease in net interest revenue primarily reflects lower yields, partially offset by higher average deposits and loans.  Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization)  26 BNY Mellondecreased $19 million primarily due to lower litigation expense, partially offset by higher professional, legal and other purchased services expense. Other segment See page 28 of our 2013 Annual Report for a description of the Other segment.Review of financial results Total fee and other revenue decreased $228 million compared with the second quarter of 2013 and increased $7 million compared with the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily resulted from a gain related to an equity investment recorded in the second quarter of 2013.  The sequential increase primarily reflects higher other income and equity investment revenue, partially offset by lower lease residual gains.  Net interest revenue decreased $1 million compared with the second quarter of 2013 and $8 million compared with the first quarter of 2014.  The sequential decrease primarily reflects lower average loans and leases.The provision for credit losses was a credit of $12 million in the second quarter of 2014 driven by the continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio.Noninterest expense excluding M&I and restructuring charges decreased $143 million compared with the second quarter of 2013 and $100 million compared with the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease reflects declines in several categories, the largest of which are lower staff and business  development expenses.  The sequential decrease primarily reflects lower staff expense resulting from the acceleration of the vesting of long-term stock awards for retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of 2014.M&I and restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2014 primarily reflect severance expense related to streamlining actions.Year-to-date 2014 compared with year-to-date 2013Income before taxes in the Other segment was a loss of $17 million in the first six months of 2014 compared with pre-tax income of $121 million in the first six months of 2013.  Total revenue decreased $205 million primarily resulting from a gain related to an equity investment recorded in the second quarter of 2013, lower securities gain and trading revenue, partially offset by the impact on net interest revenue from changes in the internal credit rates to the businesses for deposits.  The provision for credit losses was a credit of $30 million in the first six months of 2014 compared with a credit of $44 million in the first six months of 2013 driven by the continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio.  Noninterest expenses excluding M&I and restructuring charges decreased $193 million, primarily reflecting lower staff expense, cost of generating certain tax credits, business development and net occupancy expenses and the sale of Newton s private client business.BNY Mellon 27 Critical accounting estimatesOur significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report.  Our critical accounting estimates are those related to the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments, fair value of financial instruments and derivatives, other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ), goodwill and other intangibles, and pension accounting, as referenced below.Critical policyReferenceAllowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments2013 Annual Report, pages 34 - 36.  This policy is also disclosed in the  Asset quality and allowance for credit losses  section of this Form 10-Q.Fair value of financial instruments and derivatives2013 Annual Report, pages 36 and 37.OTTI2013 Annual Report, pages 37 and 38.Goodwill and other intangibles2013 Annual Report, pages 38 and 39.Pension accounting2013 Annual Report, pages 39 and 40.Consolidated balance sheet reviewAt June 30, 2014, total assets were $401 billion compared with $375 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  Total assets averaged $369 billion in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $337 billion in the second quarter of 2013 and $355 billion in the first quarter of 2014.  Fluctuations in the period-end and average total assets were primarily driven by the level of client deposits.  Deposits totaled $282 billion at June 30, 2014, and $261 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  Total deposits averaged $240 billion in the second quarter of 2014, $222 billion in the second quarter of 2013 and $234 billion in the first quarter of 2014.  At June 30, 2014, total interest-bearing deposits were 52% of total interest-earning assets compared with 54% at Dec. 31, 2013.  At June 30, 2014, we had $57 billion of liquid funds and $111 billion of cash (including $106 billion of overnight deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks) for a total of $168 billion of available funds.  This compares with available funds of $155 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase in available funds resulted from an increase in the level of client deposits.  Total available funds as a percentage of total assets was 42% at June 30, 2014 compared with  41% at Dec. 31, 2013.  Of the $57 billion in liquid funds held at June 30, 2014, $41 billion was placed in interest-bearing deposits with large, highly-rated global financial institutions with a weighted-average life to maturity of approximately 48 days.  Of the $41 billion, $8 billion was placed with banks in the Eurozone.Investment securities were $105 billion, or 26% of total assets, at June 30, 2014, compared with $99 billion, or 26% of total assets, at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase reflects a higher level of investments in sovereign debt/sovereign guaranteed, U.S. Treasury securities and agency RMBS.Loans were $59 billion, or 15% of total assets, at June 30, 2014, compared with $52 billion, or 14% of total assets, at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase in total exposure primarily reflects higher overdrafts and margin loans resulting from an increase in our term loan program.Long-term debt totaled $20.3 billion at June 30, 2014 and $19.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  In the first six months of 2014, the Parent issued $2.7 billion of senior debt, partially offset by maturities of $2.3 billion.Total The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders  equity at June 30, 2014 increased to $38.3 billion from $37.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase primarily reflects earnings retention, an increase in the value of our investment securities portfolio, an increase in foreign currency translation adjustments and approximately $320 million resulting from stock awards, the exercise of stock options and stock issued for employee benefit plans, partially offset by share repurchases.Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Russia and UkraineWe have provided expanded disclosure on countries that have experienced particular market focus on credit quality and are countries experiencing economic concerns.  Where appropriate, we are offsetting the risk associated with the gross exposure in these countries with collateral that has been pledged, which primarily consists of cash or marketable securities, or by transferring the risk to a third-party guarantor in another country. 28 BNY MellonBNY Mellon has a limited economic interest in the performance of assets of consolidated investment management funds, and therefore they are excluded from this disclosure.  The liabilities of consolidated investment management funds represent the interest of the noteholders of the funds and are solely dependent on the value of the assets of the funds.  Any loss in the value of assets of consolidated investment management funds would be incurred by the fund s noteholders.  Recent events in Russia and Ukraine significantly increased geopolitical tensions in Central and Eastern Europe.  In addition to the exposures in the following table, we provide investments services, including acting as a depositary receipt bank, for companies in Russia.  To date, our Russian-related businesses have not been materially impacted by the ongoing tensions or sanctions.  Future developments including additional sanctions against Russian entities could  adversely impact these businesses and our results of operations.  At June 30, 2014, our exposure to Ukraine was less than $1 million.The following tables present our on- and off-balance sheet exposure in Ireland, Italy and Spain at both June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013.  Additionally, our on- and off-balance sheet exposure to Russia is presented at June 30, 2014.  At June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, BNY Mellon had exposure of less than $1 million in both Portugal and Greece.Our exposure in Ireland is principally related to Irish-domiciled investment funds.  Servicing provided to these funds and fund families may result in overdraft exposure.  See  Risk management  for additional information on how our exposures are managed.  Exposure in the tables below reflects the country of operations and risk of the immediate counterparty.BNY Mellon 29 (a)Interest-bearing deposits with banks represent a $99 million placement with an Irish subsidiary of a UK holding company, a $49 million placement with an Irish financial institution, a $100 million placement with a financial institution in Italy, a $247 million placement with a financial institution in Spain, $214 million of nostro accounts related to our custody activities located in Ireland, Italy and Spain and $20 million of nostro accounts related to our depositary receipts business in Russia.  (b)Investment securities represent $165 million, fair value, of residential mortgage-backed securities located in Ireland and Italy, $1,447 million, fair value, of sovereign debt located in Spain and Italy and $53 million, fair value, of corporate bonds located in Ireland, Italy and Spain.  The investment securities were 90% investment grade.(c)Loans and leases include $342 million of overdrafts primarily to Irish-domiciled investment funds resulting from our custody business, a $72 million commercial lease to a company located in Ireland, which was fully collateralized by U.S. Treasuries, a $1 million loan to a broker-dealer in Ireland, $3 million of overdrafts to financial institutions located in Italy and Spain, $3 million of leases to airline manufacturing companies located in Italy and Spain, which are under joint and several guarantee arrangements with guarantors outside of the Eurozone and $462 million of trade finance and syndicated loans primarily to large, state-owned financial institutions in Russia.  There is no impairment associated with these loans and leases.  Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in our Investment Services businesses and are generally repaid within two business days.(d)Trading assets represent the receivable related to over-the-counter foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives, net of master netting agreements.  Trading assets include $62 million of receivables primarily due from Irish-domiciled investment funds and $45 million of receivables primarily due from financial institutions in Italy and Spain.  Cash collateral on trading assets totaled $3 million in Ireland, $29 million in Italy and $4 million in Spain.  Additionally, trading assets in Spain were collateralized by $11 million of U.S. Treasuries.(e)Lending-related commitments include $78 million to an insurance company in Ireland, collateralized by $13 million of marketable securities.(f)Letters of credit represent $58 million extended to an insurance company in Ireland, collateralized by $55 million of marketable securities, $2 million extended to an oil and gas company in Ireland, $3 million extended to a financial institution in Italy, $13 million extended to an insurance company in Spain, fully collateralized by marketable securities, and $1 million extended to a financial institution in Russia.  Risk participations with higher risk countries counterparties are excluded.(g)Total net on- and off-balance sheet exposure in Russia at March 31, 2014 was approximately $550 million. 30 BNY Mellon(a)Interest-bearing deposits with banks represent a $99 million placement with an Irish subsidiary of a UK holding company, a $100 million placement with a financial institution in Italy, $350 million of placements with financial institutions in Spain and $143 million of nostro accounts related to our custody activities located in Italy, Spain and Ireland.  (b)Investment securities represent $257 million, fair value, of residential mortgage-backed securities located in Ireland and Italy, $308 million, fair value, of sovereign debt located in Spain and Italy, and $16 million, fair value, of asset-backed collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ) located in Ireland.  The investment securities were 74% investment grade.(c)Loans and leases include $184 million of overdrafts primarily to Irish-domiciled investment funds resulting from our custody business, a $70 million commercial lease to a company located in Ireland, which was fully collateralized by U.S. Treasuries, $13 million of loans to financial institutions located in Ireland, which were collateralized by $12 million of marketable securities, $1 million of overdrafts to a financial institution located in Italy and $3 million of leases to airline manufacturing companies located in Italy and Spain, which are under joint and several guarantee arrangements with guarantors outside of the Eurozone.  There is no impairment associated with these loans and leases.  Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in our Investment Services businesses and are generally repaid within two business days.(d)Trading assets represent the receivable related to the over-the-counter foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives, net of master netting agreements.  Trading assets include $62 million of receivables primarily due from Irish-domiciled investment funds and $53 million of receivables primarily due from financial institutions in Italy and Spain.  Cash collateral on trading assets totaled $5 million in Ireland, $30 million in Italy and $5 million in Spain.  Trading assets located in Spain are also collateralized by $13 million of U.S. Treasuries.(e)Lending-related commitments include $70 million to an insurance company, collateralized by $3 million of marketable securities.(f)Letters of credit represent $65 million extended to an insurance company in Ireland, fully collateralized by marketable securities, $48 million extended to a financial institution in Ireland, $2 million extended to an oil and gas company in Ireland, $3 million extended to a financial institution in Italy and $13 million extended to an insurance company in Spain, fully collateralized by marketable securities.  BNY Mellon 31 Investment securitiesIn the discussion of our investment securities portfolio, we have included certain credit ratings information because the information indicates the degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and significant changes in ratings classifications for our  investment securities portfolio could indicate increased credit risk for us and could be accompanied by a reduction in the fair value of our investment securities portfolio.  The following table presents the distribution of our total investment securities portfolio:(a)Amortized cost before impairments.(b)Primarily comprised of exposure to UK, France, Germany and Netherlands.(c)These RMBS were included in the former Grantor Trust and were marked-to-market in 2009.  We believe these RMBS would receive higher credit ratings if these ratings incorporated, as additional credit enhancement, the difference between the written-down amortized cost and the current face amount of each of these securities.(d)Includes RMBS, commercial MBS and other securities.  Primarily comprised of exposure to UK and Netherlands.(e)Primarily comprised of exposure to Canada, UK and Netherlands.(f)Includes commercial paper of $1.7 billion and $1.7 billion, fair value, and money market funds of $849 million and $810 million, fair value, at March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, respectively.(g)Includes net unrealized gains on derivatives hedging securities available-for-sale of $388 million at March 31, 2014 and $213 million at June 30, 2014.(h)Unrealized gains of $1,105 million at June 30, 2014 related to available-for-sale securities.The fair value of our investment securities portfolio was $105.1 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $99.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase reflects a higher level of investments in sovereign debt/sovereign guaranteed, U.S. Treasury securities and agency RMBS, as well as an increase in the unrealized gain on our investment securities.  In the second quarter of 2014, we received $136 million of paydowns and sold $5 million of sub-investment grade securities. At June 30, 2014, the total investment securities portfolio had a net unrealized pre-tax gain of $1.2 billion compared with $309 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase in the net unrealized pre-tax gain was  primarily driven by the reduction in market interest rates.  The unrealized net of tax gain on our investment securities available-for-sale portfolio included in accumulated other comprehensive income was $678 million at June 30, 2014, compared with $357 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  At both June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, 89% of the securities in our portfolio were rated AAA/AA-.We routinely test our investment securities for OTTI.  (See  Critical accounting estimates  for additional information regarding OTTI.) 32 BNY MellonThe following table presents the amortizable purchase premium (net of discount) related to the investment securities portfolio and accretable discount related to  the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio.(a)Amortization of purchase premium decreases net interest revenue while accretion of discount increases net interest revenue.  Both were recorded on a level yield basis.The following table presents pre-tax net securities gains (losses) by type.On a quarterly basis, we perform our impairment analysis using several factors, including projected loss severities and default rates.  In the second quarter of 2014, this analysis resulted in $2 million of credit losses primarily on our prime RMBS portfolio.  At June 30, 2014, if we were to increase or decrease each of our projected loss severities and default rates by 100 basis points on each of the positions in our non-agency RMBS portfolios, including the securities previously held by the Grantor Trust, credit-related impairment charges on these securities would have  increased or decreased by less than $1 million (pre-tax).  See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the projected weighted-average default rates and loss severities.  The following table shows the fair value of the European floating rate notes by geographical location at June 30, 2014.  The unrealized loss on these securities was $10 million at June 30, 2014, an improvement of $9 million compared with $19 million at March 31, 2014.(a)72% of these securities are in the AAA to AA- ratings category.See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of securities by level in the fair value hierarchy.BNY Mellon 33 Loans  At June 30, 2014, total exposures were $99.4 billion, an increase of 7% from $92.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase in total exposure primarily reflects higher overdrafts and margin loans resulting from an increase in our term loan program.  Our financial institutions and commercial portfolios comprise our largest concentrated risk.  These portfolios made up 53% of our total lending exposure at June 30, 2014 and 57% at Dec. 31, 2013.  Additionally, a substantial portion of our overdrafts relate to financial institutions and commercial customers.Financial institutionsThe diversity of the financial institutions portfolio is shown in the following table. The financial institutions portfolio exposure was $31.3 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $31.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The decrease primarily reflects lower exposure to banks and governments, partially offset by increased exposure to asset managers and the securities industry reflecting the reestablishment of a loan to Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ) as a fully collateralized performing loan in the first quarter of 2014.  See Note 5 and Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Sentinel matter. Financial institution exposures are high quality, with 93% of the exposures meeting the investment grade equivalent criteria of our internal credit rating classification at June 30, 2014.  Each customer is assigned an internal credit rating, which is mapped to an equivalent external rating agency grade based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may change over time.  The exposure to financial institutions is generally short-term.  Of these exposures, 71% expire within one year, and 36% expire within 90 days.  In addition, 39% of the financial institutions exposure is secured.  For  34 BNY Mellonexample, securities industry and asset managers often borrow against marketable securities held in custody.For ratings of non-U.S. counterparties, as a conservative measure, our internal credit rating is generally capped at a rating equivalent to the sovereign rating of the country where the counterparty resides regardless of the internal credit rating assigned to the counterparty or the underlying collateral. Our bank exposure primarily relates to our global trade finance and U.S. dollar-clearing businesses.  These exposures are predominately to investment grade counterparties and are short term in nature.  The asset manager portfolio exposures are high-quality, with 99% of the exposures meeting our investment grade equivalent ratings criteria as of June 30, 2014.  These exposures are generally short-term liquidity facilities, with the vast majority to regulated mutual funds. CommercialThe diversity of the commercial portfolio is presented in the following table. The commercial portfolio exposure decreased less than 1% to $21.0 billion at June 30, 2014, from $21.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase in exposure to the services and other portfolio was more than offset by a decrease in exposure across the remainder of the commercial portfolio.The table below summarizes the percentage of the financial institutions and commercial portfolio exposures that are investment grade.Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities and avoid single name/industry concentrations and our goal is to maintain a predominantly investment grade loan portfolio.  The execution of our strategy has resulted in 93% of our financial institutions portfolio and 94% of our commercial portfolio rated as investment grade at June 30, 2014.  Wealth management loans and mortgages Our wealth management exposure was $12.1 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $11.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  Wealth management loans and mortgages are primarily comprised of loans to high-net-worth individuals, which are secured by marketable securities and/or residential property.  Wealth management mortgages are primarily interest-only adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan-to-value ratio of 65% at origination.  In the wealth management portfolio, less than 1% of the mortgages were past due at June 30, 2014.At June 30, 2014, the wealth management mortgage portfolio was comprised of the following geographic concentrations:  California - 21%; New York - 21%;  Massachusetts - 15%; Florida - 9%; and other - 34%.Commercial real estateOur income producing commercial real estate facilities are focused on experienced owners and are structured with moderate leverage based on existing cash flows.  Our commercial real estate lending activities also include construction and renovation facilities.  Our client base consists of experienced developers and long-term holders of real estate assets.  BNY Mellon 35 Loans are approved on the basis of existing or projected cash flows, and supported by appraisals and knowledge of local market conditions.  Development loans are structured with moderate leverage, and in many instances, involve some level of recourse to the developer.  Our commercial real estate exposure totaled $4.7 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $4.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.At June 30, 2014, 57% of our commercial real estate portfolio was secured.  The secured portfolio is diverse by project type, with 59% secured by residential buildings, 20% secured by office buildings, 12% secured by retail properties, and 9% secured by other categories.  Approximately 97% of the unsecured portfolio is comprised of real estate investment trusts ( REITs ), which are primarily investment grade, and real estate operating companies.At June 30, 2014, our commercial real estate portfolio is comprised of the following concentrations: New York metro - 44%; REITs and real estate operating companies - 41%; and other - 15%.Lease financingsThe leasing portfolio exposure totaled $2.2 billion and included $151 million of airline exposures at June 30, 2014, compared with $2.3 billion of leasing exposures, including $166 million of airline exposures, at Dec. 31, 2013.  At June 30, 2014, approximately 90% of the leasing exposure was investment grade.At June 30, 2014, the $2.0 billion non-airline lease financing portfolio consisted of exposures backed by well-diversified assets, primarily large-ticket transportation equipment. At June 30, 2014, our $151 million of exposure to the airline industry consisted of $61 million to major U.S. carriers, $75 million to foreign airlines and $15 million to U.S. regional airlines. Our airline lease customers experienced a recent recovery in the industry.  However, a significant portion of these customers remain highly leveraged and vulnerable to both economic downturns and rising fuel prices.  Because of these factors, we continue to maintain a sizable allowance for loan losses against these exposures and continue to closely monitor the portfolio. We utilize the lease financing portfolio as part of our tax management strategy.Other residential mortgagesThe other residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of 1-4 family residential mortgage loans and totaled $1.3 billion at June 30, 2014, compared with $1.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  Included in this portfolio at June 30, 2014 are $382 million of mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans.  As of June 30, 2014, the purchased loans in this portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 76% at origination and 18% of the serviced loan balance was at least 60 days delinquent.  The properties securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in California, Florida, Virginia, the tri-state area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut) and Maryland.To determine the projected loss on the prime and Alt-A mortgage portfolios, we calculate the total estimated defaults of these mortgages and multiply that amount by an estimate of realizable value upon sale in the marketplace (severity).OverdraftsOverdrafts primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients.  Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally repaid within two business days.Other loansOther loans primarily includes loans to consumers that are fully collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities.Margin loansMargin loans are collateralized with marketable securities and borrowers are required to maintain a daily collateral margin in excess of 100% of the value of the loan.  Margin loans included $8.4 billion of loans at June 30, 2014 and $6.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2013 related to a term loan program that offers fully collateralized loans to broker-dealers.  36 BNY MellonAsset quality and allowance for credit lossesOver the past several years, we have improved our risk profile through greater focus on clients who are active users of our non-credit services, de-emphasizing broad-based loan growth.  Our primary exposure to the credit risk of a customer consists of funded loans, unfunded formal contractual commitments to lend, standby letters of credit and overdrafts associated with our custody and securities clearance businesses. The role of credit has shifted to one that complements our other services instead of as a lead product.  We believe credit solidifies customer relationships and, through a disciplined allocation of capital, can earn acceptable rates of return as part of an overall relationship.The following table details changes in our allowance for credit losses.Net charge-offs were $3 million in the second quarter of 2014 and $2 million in the second quarter of 2013.  Net charge-offs in these periods were primarily in the other residential mortgages and foreign loan portfolios.  There were no net charge-offs in the first quarter of 2014.  The provision for credit losses was a credit of $12 million in the second quarter of 2014 primarily driven by the continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio.  The provision for credit losses was a credit of $19 million in the second quarter of 2013 and a credit of $18 million in the first quarter of 2014. The total allowance for credit losses was $311 million at June 30, 2014, $344 million at Dec. 31, 2013 and $337 million at June 30, 2013.  The ratio of the total allowance for credit losses to non-margin loans was 0.75% at June 30, 2014, 0.96% at Dec. 31, 2013 and 0.94% at June 30, 2013.  The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to non-margin loans was 0.45% at  June 30, 2014 compared with 0.58% at Dec. 31, 2013 and 0.59% at June 30, 2013.  The decrease in the total allowance for credit losses and the lower ratios at June 30, 2014 compared with both prior periods primarily reflects an improvement in the credit quality in the loan portfolio.We had $17.7 billion of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at June 30, 2014 compared with $15.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2013 and $14.4 billion at June 30, 2013.  We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to them.  As a result, we believe that the ratio of total allowance for credit losses as a percentage of non-margin loans is a more appropriate metric to measure the adequacy of the reserve.The allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments represent management s estimate of probable losses inherent in BNY Mellon 37 our credit portfolio.  This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments.  We utilize a quantitative methodology and qualitative framework for determining the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments.  Within this qualitative framework, management applies judgment when assessing internal risk factors and environmental factors to compute an additional allowance for each component of the loan portfolio.The three elements of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments include the qualitative allowance framework.  The three elements are:  an allowance for impaired credits of $1 million or greater;  an allowance for higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits; and  an allowance for residential mortgage loans. Our lending is primarily to institutional customers.  As a result, our loans are generally larger than $1 million.  Therefore, the first element, impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all impaired loans of $1 million or greater.  The allowance is measured by the difference between the recorded value of impaired loans and their impaired value.  Impaired value is either the present value of the expected future cash flows from the borrower, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.The second element, higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits, is based on our probable loss model.  All loans over $1 million are individually analyzed before being assigned a credit rating.  All borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit rating.  The probable loss inherent in each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s credit rating, loss given default rating and maturity.  The loss given default incorporates a recovery expectation and an estimate of the use of the facility at default (usage given default).  The borrower s probability of default is derived from the associated credit rating.  Borrower ratings are reviewed at least annually and are periodically mapped to third-party databases, including rating agency and default and recovery databases, to ensure ongoing consistency and validity.  Higher risk-rated credits are reviewed quarterly.  The third element, the allowance for residential mortgage loans, is determined by segregating six mortgage pools into delinquency periods ranging from current through foreclosure.  Each of these delinquency periods is assigned a probability of default.  A specific loss given default is assigned for each mortgage pool.  BNY Mellon also assigns all residential mortgage pools, except home equity lines of credit, a probability of default and loss given default based on default and loss data derived from our residential mortgage portfolio.  For each pool, the inherent loss is calculated using the above factors.  The resulting probable loss factor (the probability of default multiplied by the loss given default) is applied against the loan balance to determine the allowance held for each pool.  For home equity lines of credit, probability of default and loss given default are based on external data from third-party databases due to the small size of the portfolio and insufficient internal data.The qualitative framework is used to determine an additional allowance for each portfolio based on the factors below:Internal risk factors: Nonperforming loans to total non-margin loans;  Criticized assets to total loans and lending-related commitments;  Ratings volatility;  Borrower concentration; and  Significant concentration in high risk industries. Environmental risk factors:  U.S. non-investment grade default rate;  Unemployment rate; and  Change in real GDP (quarter over quarter). The objective of the qualitative framework is to capture incurred losses that may not have been fully captured in the quantitative reserve, which is based primarily on historical data.  Management determines the qualitative allowance each period based on judgment informed by consideration of internal and external risk factors and other considerations that may be deemed relevant during the period.  Once determined in the aggregate, our qualitative allowance is then allocated to each of our loan classes based on the respective classes  quantitative allowance balances with the allocations adjusted, when necessary, for class specific risk factors. 38 BNY MellonFor each risk factor, we calculate the minimum and maximum values, and percentiles in-between, to evaluate the distribution of our historical experience.  The distribution of historical experience is compared to the risk factor s current quarter observed experience to assess the current risk inherent in the portfolio and overall direction/trend of a risk factor relative to our historical experience.Based on this analysis, we assign a risk level - no impact, low, moderate, high and elevated - to each risk factor for the current quarter.  Management assesses the impact of each risk factor to determine an aggregate risk level.  We do not quantify the impact of any particular risk factor.  Management s assessment of the risk factors, as well as the trend in the quantitative allowance, supports management s judgment for the overall required qualitative allowance.  A smaller qualitative allowance may be required when our quantitative allowance has reflected incurred losses associated with the aggregate risk level.  A greater qualitative allowance may be required if our quantitative allowance does not yet reflect the incurred losses associated with the aggregate risk level.  Our consideration of these factors has remained consistent for the quarter ended June 30, 2014.  Additionally, the qualitative allowance as a percentage of the total allowance was essentially unchanged from Dec. 31, 2013 to June 30, 2014. The methodologies to determine the loss given default, probability of default and usage given default allowance parameters utilized in our probable loss model to calculate the quantitative allowance were updated in the fourth quarter of 2013.  To the extent actual results differ from forecasts or management s judgment, the allowance for credit losses may be greater or less than future charge-offs.Based on an evaluation of the allowance for credit losses as discussed above, we have allocated our allowance for credit losses as follows: (a)Includes the allowance for wealth management mortgages.The allocation of the allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses regardless of the nature of the loss.  The credit rating assigned to each credit is a significant variable in determining the allowance.  If each credit were rated one grade better, the allowance would have decreased by $70 million, while if each credit were rated one grade worse, the allowance would have increased by $158 million.  Similarly, if the loss given default were one rating worse, the allowance would have increased by $28 million, while if the loss given default were one rating better, the allowance would have decreased by $23 million.  For impaired credits, if the net carrying value of the loans was 10% higher or lower, the allowance would have decreased or increased by $1 million, respectively.BNY Mellon 39 Nonperforming assetsThe following table shows the distribution of nonperforming assets.(a)Loans of consolidated investment management funds are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio.  Included in the loans of consolidated investment management funds are nonperforming loans of $68 million at June 30, 2014, $74 million at March 31, 2014 and $16 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and allowance for loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from the nonperforming assets table above.Nonperforming assets were $142 million at June 30, 2014, a decrease of $4 million compared with $146 million at March 31, 2014.  The decrease primarily resulted from the return of loans to accrual status, sales of loans in the other residential mortgage portfolio and a charge-off in the foreign loan portfolio. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our past due loans.  See  Nonperforming assets  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report for our policy for placing loans on nonaccrual status.DepositsTotal deposits were $282.4 billion at June 30, 2014, an increase of 8% compared with $261.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase in deposits reflects higher noninterest-bearing deposits principally in U.S. offices and interest-bearing deposits in non-U.S. offices, partially offset by lower interest-bearing deposits in U.S. offices.Noninterest-bearing deposits were $109.6 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $95.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  Interest-bearing deposits were $172.8 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $165.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.Short-term borrowingsWe fund ourselves primarily through deposits and, to a lesser extent, other short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  Short-term borrowings are comprised of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, payables to customers and broker-dealers, commercial paper and other borrowed funds.  Certain other borrowings, for example, securities sold under repurchase agreements, require the delivery of securities as collateral.See  Liquidity and dividends  below for a discussion of long-term debt and liquidity metrics that we monitor.Information related to federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements is presented below. 40 BNY MellonFederal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements were $10.3 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $9.9 billion at March 31, 2014 and $12.6 billion at June 30, 2013.  The maximum daily balance was $29.5 billion in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $21.1 billion in the first quarter of 2014 and $13.5 billion in the second quarter of 2013.  The average daily balance was $19.0 billion in the second quarter of 2014, $14.5 billion in the first quarter of 2014 and $9.2 billion in the second quarter of 2013.  Fluctuations between periods resulted from overnight borrowing opportunities.  The weighted-average rates in all periods presented reflect revenue earned on securities sold under repurchase agreements related to certain securities for which we were able to charge for lending them.Information related to payables to customers and broker-dealers is presented below.  (a)The weighted-average rate is calculated based on, and is applied to, the average interest-bearing payables to customers and broker-dealers, which were $8,916 million in the second quarter of 2014, $8,883 million in the first quarter of 2014 and $9,073 million in the second quarter of 2013.Payables to customers and broker-dealers represent funds awaiting re-investment and short sale proceeds  payable on demand.  Payables to customers and broker-dealers were $17.2 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $16.8 billion at March 31, 2014 and $15.3 billion at June 30, 2013.  Payables to customers and broker-dealers are driven by customer trading activity levels and market volatility.  Information related to commercial paper is presented below.Commercial paper outstanding was $27 million at June 30, 2014 compared with $27 million at March 31, 2014 and $111 million at June 30, 2013.  Average commercial paper outstanding was $2.0 billion in the second quarter of 2014, $102 million in the first quarter of 2014 and $58 million in the second quarter of 2013.  The maximum daily balance was $4.9 billion in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2014 and $924 million in the second quarter of 2013.  The increases in maximum and average daily balances in the second quarter of 2014 were primarily driven by attractive short-term borrowing opportunities.  Our commercial paper matures within 397 days from date of issue and is not redeemable prior to maturity or subject to voluntary prepayment.Information related to other borrowed funds is presented below. BNY Mellon 41 Other borrowed funds primarily include overdrafts of sub-custodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses and borrowings under lines of credit by our Pershing subsidiaries.  Overdrafts typically relate to timing differences for settlements.  Other borrowed funds were $1.5 billion at June 30, 2014 compared with $1.3 billion at March 31, 2014 and $1.1 billion at June 30, 2013.  Other borrowed funds averaged $1.3 billion in the second quarter of 2014, $1.0 billion in the first quarter of 2014 and $1.4 billion in the second quarter of 2013.  The maximum daily balance was $2.0 billion in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $2.0 billion in the first quarter of 2014 and $3.7 billion in the second quarter of 2013.  Fluctuations from prior periods primarily reflect changes in overdrafts of sub-custodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses.Liquidity and dividendsBNY Mellon defines liquidity as the ability of the Parent and its subsidiaries to access funding or convert assets to cash quickly and efficiently, especially during periods of market stress.  Liquidity risk is the risk that BNY Mellon cannot meet its cash and collateral obligations at a reasonable cost for both expected and unexpected cash flows, without adversely affecting daily operations or our financial condition.  Liquidity risk can arise from cash flow mismatches, market constraints from the inability to convert assets to cash, inability to raise cash in the markets, deposit run-off, or contingent liquidity events.For additional information on our liquidity policy, see  Risk Management - Liquidity risk  in our 2013 Annual Report.Our overall approach to liquidity management is to ensure that sources of liquidity are sufficient in amount and diversity such that changes in funding requirements at the Parent and at the various bank subsidiaries can be accommodated routinely without material adverse impact on earnings, daily operations or our financial condition.BNY Mellon seeks to maintain an adequate liquidity cushion in both normal and stressed environments and seeks to diversify funding sources by line of business, customer and market segment.  Additionally, we seek to maintain liquidity ratios within approved limits and liquidity risk tolerance, maintain a liquid asset buffer that can be liquidated, financed and/or pledged as necessary, and control the levels and sources of wholesale funds.Potential uses of liquidity include withdrawals of customer deposits and client drawdowns on unfunded credit or liquidity facilities.  We actively monitor unfunded lending-related commitments, thereby reducing unanticipated funding requirements.When monitoring liquidity, we evaluate multiple metrics in order to have ample liquidity for expected and unexpected events.  Metrics include cashflow mismatches, asset maturities, debt spreads, peer ratios, liquid assets, unencumbered collateral, funding sources and balance sheet liquidity ratios.  Internal ratios we currently monitor as part of our standard analysis include total loans as a percentage of total deposits, deposits as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, foreign deposits as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, purchased funds as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, liquid assets as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, liquid assets as a percentage of purchased funds, and discount window collateral and central bank deposits as a percentage of total deposits.  All of these internal ratios exceeded our minimum guidelines at June 30, 2014.  In addition, we monitor the revised Basel III liquidity coverage ratio.  We continue to evaluate the U.S. proposed Basel III liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR ), and will comply with its requirements when the rules are finalized and effective, currently anticipated to be during the first quarter of 2015.We also perform liquidity stress tests to ensure the Company maintains sufficient liquidity resources under multiple stress scenarios.  Stress tests are based on scenarios that measure liquidity risks under unlikely but plausible events.  The Company performs these tests under various time horizons ranging from one day to one year in a base case, as well as supplemental tests to determine whether the Company s liquidity is sufficient for severe market events and firm-specific events.  Under our scenario testing program, the results of the tests indicate that the Company has sufficient liquidity.Commencing January 2015, we will also be subject to the liquidity requirements of the Federal Reserve s  42 BNY Mellonheightened prudential standards for bank holding companies ( BHCs ) with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, described under  Supervision and Regulation - Enhanced Prudential Standards  in our 2013 Annual Report.We define available funds as liquid funds (which include interest-bearing deposits with banks and federal funds sold and securities purchased under  resale agreements), cash and due from banks, and interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks.  The table below presents our total available funds including liquid funds at period-end and on an average basis.  The higher level of available funds at June 30, 2014 compared with Dec. 31, 2013 primarily resulted from a higher level of client deposits. On an average basis, non-core sources of funds, such as money market rate accounts, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, trading liabilities, commercial paper and other borrowings, were $26.9 billion for the first six months of 2014 and $19.1 billion for the first six months of 2013.  The increase primarily reflects higher levels of securities sold under repurchase agreements.  Average foreign deposits, primarily from our European-based Investment Services business, were $106.1 billion for the first six months of 2014 compared with $99.7 billion for the first six months of 2013.  The increase primarily reflects growth in client deposits.  Domestic savings, interest-bearing demand and time deposits averaged $46.3 billion for the first six months of 2014 compared with $44.0 billion for the first six months of 2013.  The increase primarily reflects higher time deposits.Average payables to customers and broker-dealers were $8.9 billion for the first six months of 2014 and $9.0 billion for the first six months of 2013.  Payables to customers and broker-dealers are driven by customer trading activity and market volatility.  Long-term debt averaged $20.4 billion for the first six months of 2014 and $18.9 billion for the first six months of 2013.  The increase in average long-term debt was driven by the issuance of long-term debt in  the second half of 2013 and the first six months of 2014 in anticipation of debt maturing in 2014.  Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased to $79.6 billion for the first six months of 2014 from $70.5 billion for the first six months of 2013, reflecting growth in client deposits.  A significant reduction in our Investment Services business would reduce our access to deposits.  See  Asset/liability management  for additional factors that could impact our deposit balances.The Parent has four major sources of liquidity: cash on hand; dividends from its subsidiaries; access to the commercial paper market; and access to the debt and equity markets.Subsequent to June 30, 2014, our bank subsidiaries could declare dividends to the Parent of approximately $1.6 billion, without the need for a regulatory waiver.  In addition, at June 30, 2014, non-bank subsidiaries of the Parent had liquid assets of approximately $1.5 billion. In April 2014, BNY Mellon announced a 13% increase in the quarterly common stock dividend from $0.15 to $0.17 per common share.  Our common BNY Mellon 43 stock dividend payout ratio was 31% for the first six months of 2014.  The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.  Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries are discussed in more detail in  Supervision and Regulation - Capital Planning and Stress Testing - Payment of Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Other Capital Distributions  and in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both contained in our 2013 Annual Report.The Parent s average commercial paper borrowings were $2.0 billion in the the second quarter of 2014 and $58 million in the second quarter of 2013.  The Parent had cash of $5.3 billion at June 30, 2014, compared with $6.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  In addition to issuing commercial paper for funding purposes, the Parent issues commercial paper, on an overnight basis, to certain custody clients with excess demand deposit balances.  Overnight commercial paper outstanding issued by the Parent was $27  million at June 30, 2014 and $96 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  Net of commercial paper outstanding, the Parent s cash position at June 30, 2014, decreased by $1.5 billion compared with Dec. 31, 2013, primarily reflecting maturities of long-term debt, an increase in loans to subsidiaries and common share repurchases, partially offset by the issuance of senior medium-term notes.The Parent s major uses of funds are payment of dividends, repurchases of common stock, principal and interest payments on its borrowings, acquisitions and additional investments in its subsidiaries.In the second quarter of 2014, we repurchased 12.6 million common shares at an average price of $34.14 per common share for a total cost of $431 million.The Parent s liquidity policy is to have sufficient unencumbered cash and cash equivalents on hand to meet its forecasted debt redemptions, net interest payments and net tax payments over the next 18 to 24 months without the need to receive dividends from its bank subsidiaries or issue debt.  As of June 30, 2014, the Parent was in compliance with its liquidity policy. In addition to our other funding sources, we also have the ability to access the capital markets.  In June 2013, we filed shelf registration statements on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) covering the issuance of certain securities, including an unlimited amount of debt, common stock, preferred stock and trust preferred securities, as well as common stock issued under the Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plans.  These registration statements will expire in June 2016, at which time we plan to file new shelf registration statements.Our ability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, is partially dependent on our credit ratings, which, as of June 30, 2014, were as follows:Credit ratings  Moody sS&PFitch DBRSParent:     Long-term senior debtA1A+AA- AA (low)Subordinated debtA2AA+ A (high)Preferred stockBaa2BBBBBB A (low)Trust-preferred securitiesA3BBBBBB+ A (high)Short-term debtP1A-1F1+ R-1 (middle)Outlook - Parent:StableNegativeStable Stable The Bank of New York Mellon:Long-term senior debtAa2AA-AA- AALong-term depositsAa2AA-AA AAShort-term depositsP1A-1+F1+ R-1 (high)      BNY Mellon, N.A.:     Long-term senior debtAa2AA-AA- (a)AALong-term depositsAa2AA-AA AAShort-term depositsP1A-1+F1+ R-1 (high)      Outlook - Banks:StableStableStable Stable(a)Represents senior debt issuer default rating.As a result of S&P s government support assumptions on certain U.S. financial institutions, the Parent s ratings by S&P benefit from one notch of  lift .  Similarly, The Bank of New York Mellon s and BNY Mellon, N.A. s ratings benefit from two notches of  lift  from Moody s Investor Service ( Moody s ) and one notch of  lift  from S&P.  In June 2013, S&P indicated that they are reconsidering the inclusion of assumed government support in its ratings on the eight U.S. bank holding companies that they view as having high systemic importance, including The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  For further discussion on the impact of a credit rating downgrade, see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 44 BNY MellonLong-term debt totaled $20.3 billion at June 30, 2014 and $19.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  In the first six months of 2014, the Parent issued $2.7 billion of senior debt, partially offset by maturities of $2.3 billion.  We have $2.1 billion of long-term debt that will mature in the remainder of 2014.The following table presents the long-term debt issued by the Parent in the second quarter of 2014.Debt issuancesQuarter ended(in millions)June 30, 2014Senior medium-term notes: 2.2% senior medium-term notes due 2019$7503.4% senior medium-term notes due 2024500Total debt issuances$1,250The double leverage ratio is the ratio of investment in subsidiaries divided by our consolidated equity, which includes our noncumulative perpetual preferred stock plus trust preferred securities.  Our double leverage ratio was 110.9% at June 30, 2014 and 109.4% at Dec. 31, 2013.  The double leverage ratio is monitored by regulators and rating agencies and is an important constraint on our ability to invest in our subsidiaries and expand our businesses.Pershing LLC, an indirect subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has uncommitted lines of credit in place for liquidity purposes which are guaranteed by the Parent.  Pershing LLC has eight separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $1.5 billion in aggregate. Average daily borrowing under these lines was $4 million, in aggregate, in the second quarter of 2014.Pershing Limited, an indirect UK-based subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has two separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $250 million in aggregate in place for liquidity purposes, which are guaranteed by the Parent.  Average borrowings under these lines was $99 million, in aggregate, in the second quarter of 2014. Statement of cash flowsCash provided by operating activities was $2.4 billion in the six months ended June 30, 2014 compared with $959 million used for operating activities in the six months ended June 30, 2013.  In the first six months of 2014, cash flows from operations were principally the result of earnings and changes in trading activities.  In the first six months of 2013, cash flows used for operations were principally the result of changes in trading activities, partially offset by earnings.In the six months ended June 30, 2014, cash used for investing activities was $26.3 billion compared with $632 million in the six months ended June 30, 2013.  In the first six months of 2014, purchases of securities available-for-sale, changes in loans, interest-bearing deposits with banks and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements, were significant uses of funds, partially offset by sales, paydowns and maturities of securities available-for-sale.  In the first six months of 2013, purchases of securities and changes in loans and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements were a significant use of funds, partially offset by sales, paydowns and maturities of securities and a decrease in deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks.In the six months ended June 30, 2014, cash provided by financing activities was $23.6 billion compared with $3.9 billion in the six months ended June 30, 2013.  In the first six months of 2014, changes in deposits and the issuance of long-term debt were significant sources of funds, partially offset by the repayment of long-term debt and treasury stock repurchases.  In the first six months of 2013, an increase in federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements and the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were significant sources of funds, partially offset by repayment of long-term debt, a decrease in payables to customers and broker-dealers and treasury stock repurchases.BNY Mellon 45 Capital(a)See  Supplemental information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 55 for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.(b)Information for the period ended Dec. 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013 was restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Total The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders  equity at June 30, 2014 increased to $38.3 billion from $37.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase primarily reflects earnings retention, an increase in the value of our investment securities portfolio, an increase in foreign currency translation adjustments and approximately $320 million resulting from stock awards, the exercise of stock options and stock issued for employee benefit plans, partially offset by share repurchases. The unrealized net of tax gain on our investment securities portfolio recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income was $678 million at June 30, 2014, compared with $357 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by the reduction in market interest rates.In the first six months of 2014, we repurchased 24.2 million common shares at an average price of $33.31 per common share for a total cost of $806 million.From July 1, 2014 through Aug. 8, 2014, we repurchased 10.8 million common shares at an  average price of $39.29 per common share for a total cost of $425 million.On July 18, 2014, the board of directors declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.17 per common share.  This cash dividend was paid on Aug. 8, 2014 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on July 29, 2014.Capital adequacyRegulators establish certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with established quantitative measurements.  For the Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon must, among other things, qualify as  well capitalized . As of June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries were considered  well capitalized  on the basis of the Total and Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratios and the leverage capital ratio (Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets as defined for regulatory purposes). 46 BNY MellonOur consolidated and largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, capital ratios are shown below.(a)The estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios are based on our interpretation of the Final Capital Rules released by the Federal Reserve on July 2, 2013, which are being gradually phased-in over a multi-year period.  The estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios assume all relevant regulatory model approvals.  The Final Capital Rules require approval by banking regulators of certain models used as part of risk-weighted asset calculations.  If these models are not approved, the estimated fully phased-in capital ratios would likely be adversely impacted.(b)Beginning with June 30, 2014, risk-based capital ratios include the net impact of including the total consolidated assets of certain consolidated investment management funds in risk-weighted assets.  These assets were not included in prior periods.  The net impact of such consolidated assets for the June 30, 2014 estimated CET1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis was a decrease of 101 basis points under the Advanced Approach and 58 basis points under the Standardized Approach.  The net impact of such consolidated assets for June 30, 2014 regulatory capital ratios was a decrease of 116 basis points to the CET1 ratio, 126 basis points to the Tier 1 capital ratio, and 129 basis points to the Total capital ratio.  The leverage ratio was not affected.(c)See  Supplemental Information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 55 for a reconciliation of these ratios.(d)At June 30, 2014, our capital ratios were calculated under the Advanced Approach framework.  At March 31, 2014, the capital ratios were based on Basel III components of capital, as phased-in, and asset risk-weightings using the general risk-based guidelines included in the Final Capital Rules (which for 2014 look to Basel I-based requirements).  Periods prior to March 31, 2014 are based on Basel I rules, while the CET1 ratio is a Basel I Tier 1 common ratio. (e)Risk-weighted assets at June 30, 2014 under the Advanced Approach does not reflect the use of a simple value-at-risk methodology for repo-style transactions (including agented indemnified securities lending transactions), eligible margin loans, and similar transactions.  The company has requested written approval to use this methodology.  The estimated net impact of such a value-at-risk methodology for June 30, 2014 regulatory capital ratios calculated under the Advanced Approach would have been an increase of approximately 20 basis points to the CET1, Tier 1 and Total capital ratios.(f)On a fully phased-in basis, we expect to satisfy a minimum Basel III CET1 ratio of at least 7%, expected to rise to 8%, assuming an additional G-SIB buffer of 1%. (g)The required leverage ratio for state member banks to be adequately capitalized is 3% or 4%, depending on factors specified in regulations.N/A   Not applicable. Our estimated Basel III CET1 ratio (Non-GAAP) calculated under the Advanced Approach on a fully phased-in basis, was 10.0% at June 30, 2014, compared with 10.7% at March 31, 2014.  Our estimated Basel III CET1 ratio (Non-GAAP) calculated under the Standardized Approach on a fully phased-in basis, was 10.3% at June 30, 2014, compared with 11.1% at March 31, 2014.  Both decreases reflect an increase in risk-weighted assets related to assets of certain consolidated investment management funds.  Our estimated Basel III CET1 ratios on a fully phased-in basis are based on our  current interpretation, expectations and understanding of the Final Capital Rules and may evolve as we discuss our interpretation and application with our regulators.Reporting of the Basel III Advanced Approach became effective June 30, 2014.  At June 30, 2014, the CET1, Tier 1 and Total risk-based regulatory capital ratios are based on Basel III components of capital, as phased-in, and asset risk-weightings using the Advanced Approach framework under the Final Capital Rules.  The Collins Floor comparison of the BNY Mellon 47 CET1, Tier 1 and Total risk-based regulatory capital ratios were 14.3%, 15.5% and 16.2%, respectively, at June 30, 2014, and are calculated based on Basel III components of capital, as phased-in, and asset risk-weightings using the general risk-based guidelines included in the Final Capital Rules (which for 2014 look to Basel I-based requirements).  At March 31, 2014, the risk-based regulatory capital ratios were based on Basel III components of capital, as phased-in, and asset risk-weightings using the general risk-based guidelines included in the Final Capital Rules. The leverage capital ratios for June 30, 2014 and March 31, 2014 are based on Basel III components of capital and quarterly average total assets, as phased-in.  The risk-based and leverage capital ratios for Dec. 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013 are based on Basel I rules (including Basel I Tier 1 common in the case of the CET1 ratio).  For information regarding various factors that could impact our capital ratios, see  Supplemental  Information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures.   For additional information on the Final Capital Rules, see  Recent accounting and regulatory developments - Regulatory developments  in our 2013 Annual Report.  The Basel III Advanced Approach capital ratios are significantly impacted by operational losses.  Our operational loss risk model is informed by external losses, including fines and penalties levied against institutions in the financial services industry, particularly those that relate to businesses in which we operate, and as a result could impact the amount of capital that we are required to hold.In the second quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2014, net Basel III CET1 increased $326 million and $1,141 million, respectively.  The table below presents the factors that impacted net Basel III CET1.(a)Primarily related to stock awards, the exercise of stock options and stock issued for employee benefit plans.(b)Includes the restatement of retained earnings due to the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01). 48 BNY MellonThe following table presents the components of our Basel I Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital, the Basel I risk-weighted assets as well as average assets used for leverage capital purposes at Dec. 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013.(a)On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel I rules.(b)Reduced by deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible identifiable intangible assets of $1,222 million at Dec. 31, 2013 and $1,269 million at June 30, 2013 and deferred tax liabilities associated with tax deductible goodwill of $1,302 million at Dec. 31, 2013 and $1,200 million at June 30, 2013.At June 30, 2014, the amounts of capital by which BNY Mellon and our largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, exceed the capital ratios determined under the transitional rules as follows.N/A - Not applicable. The following table shows the impact of a $1 billion increase or decrease in risk-weighted assets/quarterly average assets or a $100 million increase or decrease in common equity on the consolidated capital ratios at June 30, 2014.Potential impact to capital ratios at June 30, 2014  Increase or decrease of(basis points)$100 millionin common equity$1 billion in risk-weighted assets/quarterly average assetsCET1:    Standardized Approach8bps11bpsAdvanced Approach6 7      Tier 1 capital:    Standardized Approach8 12 Advanced Approach6 8      Total capital:    Standardized Approach8 12 Advanced Approach6 8      Leverage3 2      Estimated CET1 ratio, fully phased-in   Non-GAAP:    Standardized Approach6bps7bpsAdvanced Approach6 6 BNY Mellon 49 Our tangible BNY Mellon common shareholders  equity to tangible assets of operations ratio was 6.4% at June 30, 2014 and 6.8% at Dec. 31, 2013.  The decrease primarily reflects an increase in total assets.  At June 30, 2014, we had $342 million of trust preferred securities outstanding, of which 50% currently qualify as Tier 1 capital and 50% as Tier 2 capital.  Under the Final Capital Rules, these trust preferred securities may continue to be included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital up to the following percentages: calendar year 2014 - 50%; calendar year 2015 - 25%; and calendar year 2016 and beyond - 0%.  Certain amounts of trust preferred securities that are excluded from additional Tier 1 capital due to this phase-in schedule may be eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital, pursuant to the standards established in the Final Capital Rules.  Any decision to take action with respect to these trust preferred securities will be based on several considerations including interest rates, the availability of cash and capital. Failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including  well capitalized  status or capital adequacy rules more generally, could result in limitations on our activities and adversely affect our financial condition.  See the discussion of these matters in our 2013 Annual Report in  Supervision and Regulation-Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon and Ancillary Regulatory Requirements  and  Risk Factors-Operational and Business Risk-Failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including  well capitalized  and  well managed  status or capital adequacy rules more generally, could result in limitations on our activities and adversely affect our business and financial condition.   Capital ratios vary depending on the size of the balance sheet at quarter-end and the level and types of investments in assets.  The balance sheet size fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on levels of customer and market activity.  In general, when servicing clients are more actively trading securities, deposit balances and the balance sheet as a whole are higher.  In addition, when markets experience significant volatility or stress, our balance sheet size may increase considerably as client deposit levels increase.Trading activities and risk managementOur trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers and facilitating  customer trades.  Positions managed for our own account are immaterial to our foreign exchange and other trading revenue and to our overall results of operations.  The risk from market-making activities for customers is managed by our traders and limited in total exposure through a system of position limits, a value-at-risk ( VaR ) methodology based on a Monte Carlo simulation, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures.  The calculation of our VaR used by management and presented below assumes a one-day holding period, utilizes a 99% confidence level, and incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options.  See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the VaR methodology.The following tables indicate the calculated VaR amounts for the trading portfolio for the designated periods:  50 BNY Mellon(a)VaR figures do not reflect the impact of credit valuation adjustment ( CVA ) guidance in Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 820.  This is consistent with the regulatory treatment.  VaR exposure does not include the impact of the Company s consolidated investment management funds and seed capital investments.N/M - Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, it is not meaningful to compute a minimum and maximum portfolio diversification effect.The interest rate component of VaR represents instruments whose values predominantly vary with the level or volatility of interest rates.  These instruments include, but are not limited to: debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, swaps, swaptions, forward rate agreements, exchange-traded futures and options, and other interest rate derivative products.The foreign exchange component of VaR represents instruments whose values predominantly vary with the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or interest rates.  These instruments include, but are not limited to: currency balances, spot and forward transactions, currency options, and exchange-traded futures and options, and other currency derivative products.The equity component of VaR is comprised of instruments that represent an ownership interest in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments.  These instruments include, but are not limited to: common stock, exchange-traded funds, Depositary Receipts, listed equity options (puts and calls), over-the-counter ( OTC ) equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products.The diversification component of VaR is the risk reduction benefit that occurs when combining portfolios and offsetting positions, and from the correlated behavior of risk factor movements.During the second quarter of 2014, interest rate risk generated 73% of average VaR, equity risk generated 17% of average VaR and foreign exchange risk  accounted for 10% of average VaR.  During the second quarter of 2014, our daily trading loss did not exceed our calculated VaR amount of the overall portfolio on any given day.The following table of total daily trading revenue or loss illustrates the number of trading days in which our trading revenue or loss fell within particular ranges during the past five quarters.  The fluctuations were primarily driven by lower market volatility. (a)Trading revenue (loss) includes realized and unrealized gains and losses primarily related to spot and forward foreign exchange transactions, derivatives, and securities trades for our customers and excludes any associated commissions, underwriting fees and net interest revenue.Foreign exchange and other tradingForeign exchange and other trading revenue totaled $130 million in the second quarter of 2014, $207 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $136 million in the first quarter of 2014.  In the second quarter of 2014, foreign exchange revenue totaled $129 million, a decrease of 28% year-over-year and  1% (unannualized) sequentially.  Both decreases primarily reflect lower volatility, partially offset by higher volumes.  Other trading revenue totaled $1 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared with $28 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $6 million in the first quarter of 2014.  The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower derivatives trading revenue.  Sequentially, the decrease primarily reflects lower fixed income trading revenue.  Foreign exchange revenue and fixed income trading revenue are reported in the Investment Services business and the Other segment.  Other trading revenue is primarily reported in the Other segment.Trading assets include debt and equity instruments and derivative assets, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange contracts, not designated as hedging instruments.  Trading assets were $11 billion at BNY Mellon 51 June 30, 2014 compared with $12 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.  Trading liabilities include debt and equity instruments, and derivative liabilities, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange contracts, not designated as hedging instruments.  Trading liabilities were $7 billion at both June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013.Under our mark-to-market methodology for derivative contracts, an initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming time-discounting based on a AA credit curve.  In addition, we consider credit risk in arriving at the fair value of our derivatives.  As required by ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, we reflect external credit ratings as well as observable credit default swap spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our derivative positions.  Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as those of our counterparties.  In addition, in cases where a counterparty is deemed impaired, further analyses are performed to value such positions.At June 30, 2014, our OTC derivative assets of $3.8 billion included a CVA deduction of $38 million.  Our OTC derivative liabilities of $4.9 billion included a debit valuation adjustment ( DVA ) of $4 million related to our own credit spread.  Net of hedges, the CVA increased $2 million and the DVA was unchanged in the second quarter of 2014.  The net impact of these adjustments decreased foreign exchange and other trading revenue by $2 million in the second quarter of 2014.In the first quarter of 2014, net of hedges, the CVA decreased $1 million and the DVA increased $1 million.  The net impact of these adjustments increased foreign exchange and other trading revenue by $2 million in the first quarter of 2014.In the second quarter of 2013, net of hedges, the CVA and DVA were unchanged.  Foreign exchange and other trading revenue was not impacted by the CVA and DVA in the second quarter of 2013.The table below summarizes the risk ratings for our foreign exchange and interest rate derivative  counterparty credit exposure.  This information indicates the degree of risk to which we are exposed.  Significant changes in ratings classifications for our foreign exchange and other trading activity could result in increased risk for us. (a)Represents credit rating agency equivalent of internal credit ratings.Asset/liability managementOur diversified business activities include processing securities, accepting deposits, investing in securities, lending, raising money as needed to fund assets, and other transactions.  The market risks from these activities are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.  Our primary market risk is exposure to movements in U.S. dollar interest rates and certain foreign currency interest rates.  We actively manage interest rate sensitivity and use earnings simulation and discounted cash flow models to identify interest rate exposures. An earnings simulation model is the primary tool used to assess changes in pre-tax net interest revenue.  The model incorporates management s assumptions regarding interest rates, balance changes on core deposits, market spreads, changes in the prepayment behavior of loans and securities and the impact of derivative financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes.  These assumptions have been developed through a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior and are inherently uncertain.  As a result, the earnings simulation model cannot precisely estimate net interest revenue or the impact of higher or lower interest rates on net interest revenue.  Actual results may differ from projected results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, and changes in market conditions and management s strategies, among other factors.  52 BNY MellonThese scenarios do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change.  The table below relies on certain critical assumptions regarding the balance sheet and depositors  behavior related to interest rate fluctuations and the prepayment and extension risk in certain of our assets.  To the extent that actual behavior is different from that assumed in the models, there could be a change in interest rate sensitivity.  We evaluate the effect on earnings by running various interest rate ramp scenarios from a baseline scenario.  These scenarios are reviewed to examine the impact of large interest rate movements.  Interest rate sensitivity is quantified by calculating the change in pre-tax net interest revenue between the scenarios over a 12-month measurement period.  The following table shows net interest revenue sensitivity for BNY Mellon: (a)In the parallel rate ramp, both short-term and long-term rates move in four equal quarterly increments.(b)Long-term is equal to or greater than one year.bps - basis points.The 100 basis point ramp scenario assumes rates increase 25 basis points in each of the next four quarters and the 200 basis point ramp scenario assumes a 50 basis point per quarter increase. Our net interest revenue sensitivity table above incorporates assumptions about the impact of changes in interest rates on depositor behavior based on historical experience.  Given the current historically low interest rate environment, a rise in interest rates could lead to higher depositor withdrawals than historically experienced. Growth or contraction of deposits could also be affected by the following factors:  Monetary policy;  Global economic uncertainty;  Our ratings relative to other financial institutions  ratings; and  Money market mutual fund and other regulatory reform. Any of these events could change our assumptions about depositor behavior and have a significant impact on our balance sheet and net interest revenue.  Risk management updateBNY Mellon defines risk appetite as the level of risk it is normally willing to accept while pursuing the interests of our major stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and regulators.  In the second quarter of 2014, our risk appetite statement was updated.  The Company adopted the following as its risk appetite statement:  Risk-taking is a fundamental characteristic of providing financial services and arises in every transaction we undertake.  Our risk appetite is driven by the fact our company is the global leader in providing services that enable the management and servicing of financial assets in more than 100 markets worldwide and has been designated by international regulators as one of the 29 Global Systemically Important Financial Institutions (G-SIFIs).  This designation recognizes our fundamental importance to the health and operation of the global capital markets and carries with it a responsibility to maintain the highest standards of excellence.  As a result, we are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet throughout market cycles and to delivering operational excellence to meet the expectations of our major stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and regulators.  The balance sheet will be characterized as liquid, with strong asset quality, ready access to external funding BNY Mellon 53 sources at competitive rates and a strong capital structure, that supports our risk-taking activities and is adequate to absorb potential losses.  These characteristics support our goal of having debt ratings among the best within our peer group, which comprises other trust and investment firms.  To that end, the company s Risk Management Framework has been designed to: ensure that appropriate risk tolerances ( limits ) are in place to govern our risk-taking activities across all businesses and risk types;  ensure that our risk appetite principles permeate the company s culture and are incorporated into our strategic decision-making processes; ensure rigorous monitoring and reporting of key risk metrics to senior management and the Board of Directors; ensure that there is an on-going, and forward-looking, capital planning process to support our risk-taking activities. Off-balance sheet arrangementsOff-balance sheet arrangements discussed in this section are limited to guarantees, retained or contingent interests and obligations arising out of unconsolidated variable interest entities.  For BNY Mellon, these items include certain credit guarantees and securitizations.  Guarantees include: lending-related guarantees issued as part of our corporate banking business and securities lending indemnifications issued as part of our Investment Services business.  See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements. 54 BNY MellonSupplemental information - Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measuresBNY Mellon has included in this Form 10-Q certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon fully phased-in Basel III CET1, Basel I CET1 and tangible common shareholders  equity.  BNY Mellon believes that the Basel III CET1 ratios on a fully phased-in basis, the ratio of Basel I CET1 to risk-weighted assets and the ratio of tangible common shareholders  equity to tangible assets of operations are measures of capital strength that provide additional useful information to investors, supplementing the capital ratios which are, or were, utilized by regulatory authorities.  The tangible common shareholders  equity ratio includes changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders  equity.  In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its reconciliation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes and the assets of consolidated investment management funds to which BNY Mellon has limited economic exposure.  Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon s performance in reference to those assets that are productive in generating income.  BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding.  BNY Mellon has presented its estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios based on its interpretation, expectations and understanding of the Final Capital Rules and on the application of such rules to BNY Mellon s businesses as currently conducted and may evolve as we discuss our interpretation and application with our regulators.  Management views the estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios as a key measure in monitoring BNY Mellon s capital position and progress against future regulatory capital standards.  Additionally, the presentation of the estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios are  intended to allow investors to compare BNY Mellon s estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios with estimates presented by other companies.  Our capital ratios are necessarily subject to, among other things, BNY  Mellon s further review of applicable rules, anticipated compliance with all necessary enhancements to model calibration, approval by regulators of certain models used as part of risk-weighted asset calculations, other refinements, further implementation guidance from regulators, market practices and standards and any changes BNY Mellon may make to its businesses.  Consequently, our capital ratios may change based on these factors.  BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment management funds, certain money markets fee waivers and a gain related to an equity investment; and expense measures which exclude M&I expenses, litigation charges, restructuring charges, amortization of intangible assets and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives.  Earnings per share, return on equity measures and operating margin measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented.  Return on equity also excludes the charge related to the disallowance of certain foreign tax credits.  Operating margin measures may also include the pro forma impact of money market fee waivers, net of distribution and servicing expense, and exclude amortization of intangible assets.  BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon s control.  The excluded items, in general, relate to certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions or where we have incurred charges.  M&I expenses primarily relate to the acquisitions of Global Investment Servicing on July 1, 2010 and BHF Asset Servicing GmbH on Aug. 2, 2010.  M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration.  BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon s business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased.  Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared with our current results if M&I expenses are excluded.  Litigation charges represent accruals for loss contingencies that are both probable and reasonably estimable, but exclude standard business-related legal fees.  Restructuring charges relate to our streamlining actions, Operational BNY Mellon 55 Excellence Initiatives and migrating positions to Global Delivery Centers.  Excluding these charges permits investors to view expenses on a basis consistent with how management views the business.The presentation of income from consolidated investment management funds, net of net income attributable to noncontrolling interest related to the consolidation of certain investment management funds permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with how management views the business.  BNY Mellon believes these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, give investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.  In this Form 10-Q, the net interest margin is presented on an FTE basis.  We believe this  presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice.  The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.  Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.  Results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.The following table presents the reconciliation of net income and diluted earnings per common share.Reconciliation of net income and diluted EPS - GAAP to Non-GAAP2Q14 2Q13(in millions, except per common share amounts)Net incomeDiluted EPS Net incomeDiluted EPSNet income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   GAAP$554$0.48 $831$0.71Less:  Gain related to an equity investment (after-tax)N/AN/A 1090.09Add:  Charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives and severance expense1610.14 (21)(0.02)Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   Non-GAAP$715$0.62 $701$0.60N/A   Not applicable. 56 BNY MellonThe following table presents the reconciliation of the pre-tax operating margin ratio.Reconciliation of income before income taxes   pre-tax operating margin(dollars in millions)2Q141Q142Q13YTD14YTD13Income before income taxes   GAAP$811$926$1,222$1,737$2,047Less:  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds1720393755Add:  Amortization of intangible assets757593150179M&I, litigation and restructuring charges122(12)1311052Charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives109(5)(27)10412Income before income taxes excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds, amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives   Non-GAAP$1,100$964$1,262$2,064$2,235Fee and other revenue   GAAP$2,980$2,883$3,203$5,863$6,063Income from consolidated investment management funds   GAAP46366582115Net interest revenue   GAAP7197287571,4471,476Total revenue   GAAP3,7453,6474,0257,3927,654Less:  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds1720393755Total revenue excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds   Non-GAAP$3,728$3,627$3,986$7,355$7,599      Pre-tax operating margin (a)22%25%30%24%27%Pre-tax operating margin excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds, amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives   Non-GAAP (a)30%27%32%28%29%(a)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.BNY Mellon 57 The following table presents the reconciliation of the returns on common equity and tangible common equity.Return on common equity and tangible common equity (dollars in millions) 2Q141Q142Q13YTD14YTD13Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   GAAP$554$661$831$1,215$565Add:  Amortization of intangible assets, net of tax49495998115Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation excluding amortization of intangible assets   Non-GAAP6037108901,313680Add:  M&I, litigation and restructuring charges, net of tax76(7)86932Charge related to the disallowance of certain foreign tax credits    854Charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives85(4)(21)819Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation excluding amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges, the charge related to the disallowance of certain foreign tax credits and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives   Non-GAAP$764$699$877$1,463$1,575      Average common shareholders  equity$36,565$36,289$34,467$36,428$34,681Less:  Average goodwill18,14918,07217,95718,11017,975Average intangible assets4,3544,4224,6614,3884,709Add:  Deferred tax liability   tax deductible goodwill (a)1,3381,3061,2001,3381,200Deferred tax liability   intangible assets (a)1,2471,2591,2691,2471,269Average tangible common shareholders  equity   Non-GAAP$16,647$16,360$14,318$16,515$14,466      Return on common equity   GAAP (b)6.1%7.4%9.7%6.7%3.3%Return on common equity excluding amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges, the charge related to the disallowance of certain foreign tax credits and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives   Non-GAAP (b)8.4%7.8%10.2%8.1%9.2%      Return on tangible common equity   Non-GAAP (b)14.5%17.6%25.0%16.0%9.5%Return on tangible common equity excluding M&I, litigation and restructuring charges, the charge related to the disallowance of certain foreign tax credits and the charge (recovery) related to investment management funds, net of incentives   Non-GAAP (b)18.4%17.3%24.6%17.9%22.0%(a)Deferred tax liabilities are based on fully phased-in Basel III rules.  The first and second quarters of 2014 include deferred tax liabilities on tax deductible intangible assets permitted under Basel III rules.(b)Annualized. 58 BNY MellonThe following table presents the reconciliation of the equity to assets ratio and book value per common share.(a)Deferred tax liabilities are based on fully phased-in Basel III rules.  Deferred tax liabilities at June 30, 2014 and March 31, 2014 include deferred tax liabilities on tax deductible intangible assets permitted under Basel III rules.(b)Assigned a zero percentage risk-weighting by the regulators.The following table presents the reconciliation of consolidated investment management and performance fee revenue excluding money market fee waivers. The following table presents income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests.Income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests (in millions)2Q141Q142Q13YTD14YTD13Income from consolidated investment management funds$46$36$65$82$115Less:  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds1720393755Income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests$29$16$26$45$60BNY Mellon 59 The following table presents the line items in the Investment Management business impacted by the consolidated investment management funds.Income from consolidated investment management funds, net ofnoncontrolling interests(in millions)2Q141Q142Q13YTD14YTD13Investment management fees$18$18$20$36$40Other (Investment income)11(2)6920Income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests$29$16$26$45$60The following table presents the reconciliation of the pre-tax operating margin for the Investment Management business. (a)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.The following table presents the reconciliation of our Basel I CET1 ratio. 60 BNY MellonThe following table presents the reconciliation of the fully phased-in Basel III to the transitional Standardized Approach and Advanced Approach at June 30, 2014.(a)Reflects transition adjustments to CET1, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital required in 2014 under the Final Capital Rules.(b)Represents the portion of accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss excluded from common equity.(c)Represents intangible assets, other than goodwill, net of the corresponding deferred tax liabilities.(d)Represents the deduction for net pension fund assets and disallowed deferred tax assets in CET1 and Tier 1 capital.(e)Represents the transition adjustment related to cash flow hedges.(f)During 2014, 50% of outstanding trust preferred securities are included in Tier 1 capital and 50% in Tier 2 capital.(g)Following are the primary differences between risk-weighted assets determined under fully phased-in Basel III-Standardized Approach and Basel I.  Credit risk is determined under Basel I using predetermined risk-weights and asset classes and relies in part on the use of external credit ratings.  Under fully phased-in Basel III, the Standardized Approach uses a broader range of predetermined risk-weights and asset classes and certain alternatives to external credit ratings.  Securitization exposure receives a higher risk-weighting under fully phased-in Basel III than Basel I, and fully phased-in Basel III includes additional adjustments for market risk, counterparty credit risk and equity exposures.  Additionally, the Standardized Approach eliminates the use of the VaR approach, whereas the Advanced Approach permits the VaR approach but requires certain model qualifications and approvals, for determining risk-weighted assets on certain repo-style transactions.  In 2014, Standardized Approach and Advanced Approach risk-weighted assets include transition adjustments for intangible assets, other than goodwill, and equity exposure.BNY Mellon 61 The following table presents the reconciliation of our estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratio under the Standardized Approach and Advanced Approach. (a)The estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios are based on our interpretation of the Final Capital Rules, which are being gradually phased-in over a multi-year period.  The estimated fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratios assume all relevant regulatory model approvals.  The Final Capital Rules require approval by banking regulators of certain models used as part of risk-weighted asset calculations. If these models are not approved, the estimated fully phased-in capital ratios would likely be adversely impacted.(b)Beginning with June 30, 2014, risk-based capital ratios include the net impact of including the total consolidated assets of certain consolidated investment management funds in risk-weighted assets.  These assets were not included in prior periods.  The net impact of such consolidated assets for the June 30, 2014 estimated CET1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis was a decrease of 101 basis points under the Advanced Approach and 58 basis points under the Standardized Approach. 62 BNY MellonRecent accounting and regulatory developmentsRecently Issued Accounting StandardsASU - 2014-11 - Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Repurchase-to Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financings, and DisclosuresOn June 12, 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ),  Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Repurchase-to Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financing, and Disclosures.  This ASU amends the accounting guidance for  repo-to-maturity  transactions and repurchase agreements executed as repurchase financings.  This ASU requires public entities to apply the accounting changes and comply with the enhanced disclosure requirements for the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after Dec. 15, 2014.  However, for repurchase and securities lending transactions reported as secured borrowings, the ASU s enhanced disclosures are effective for annual periods beginning after Dec. 15, 2014 and interim periods beginning after March 15, 2015.  Early adoption is not permitted.ASU - 2014-09 - Revenue from Contracts with CustomersOn May 28, 2014, the FASB issued ASU,  Revenue from Contracts with Customers  which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.  The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective.  The new standard is effective for the Company on Jan. 1, 2017.  Early application is not permitted.  The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method.  The Company is evaluating the effect that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. ASU - 2014-08 - Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an EntityOn April 10, 2014, the FASB issued ASU,  Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity.   This ASU changes the criteria for determining which future disposals can be presented as discontinued operations and modifies related disclosure requirements.  This ASU is effective for periods beginning on or after Dec. 15, 2014.  Early adoption is permitted.Proposed Accounting StandardsProposed ASU - Principal versus Agent AnalysisIn November 2011, the FASB issued a proposed ASU  Principal versus Agent Analysis.   This proposed ASU would rescind the 2010 indefinite deferral of FAS 167 for certain investment funds, including mutual funds, hedge funds, mortgage real estate investment funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds, and amends the pre-existing guidance for evaluating consolidation of voting general partnerships and similar entities.  The proposed ASU also amends the criteria for determining whether an entity is a variable interest entity under FAS 167, which could affect whether an entity is within its scope.  Accordingly, certain funds that previously were not consolidated must be reviewed to determine whether they will now be required to be consolidated.  The proposed accounting standard will continue to require BNY Mellon to determine whether or not it has a variable interest in a variable interest entity.  However, consolidation of its variable interest entity and voting general partnership asset management funds will be based on whether or not BNY Mellon, as the asset manager, uses its power as a decision maker as either a principal or an agent.  Based on a preliminary review of the proposed ASU, we do not expect to be required to consolidate additional mutual funds, hedge funds, mortgage real estate investment funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds.  In addition, we expect to deconsolidate a portion of the CLOs we currently consolidate, with further deconsolidation possible depending on future changes to BNY Mellon s investment in subordinated notes.  The FASB has recently concluded re-deliberating an update to the proposed ASU.  A final ASU is expected to be issued during the second half of 2014.  The final guidance is expected to be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after Dec. 15, 2015.  BNY Mellon 63 Early adoption in fiscal years beginning before the effective date is expected to be permitted.Proposed ASU - LeasesIn May 2013, the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board ( IASB ) issued a revised proposed ASU on leases.  The proposed ASU introduces new accounting models for both lessees and lessors, primarily to address concerns related to off-balance-sheet financing arrangements available to lessees under current guidance.  The proposal would require lessees to account for all leases on the balance sheet, except for certain short-term leases that have a maximum possible lease term of 12 months or less, including any options to renew.  A lessee would recognize on its balance sheet (1) an asset for its right to use the underlying asset over the lease term and (2) a liability representing its obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.  The income statement impact for lessees would depend on the nature of the underlying asset - that is, whether the underlying asset is property or an asset other than property - and the terms and conditions of the lease.  The proposed ASU also introduces new accounting guidance for lessors.  Lessors would account for leases under either the new receivable-and-residual approach or an approach similar to current operating-lease accounting.  The appropriate approach to use would depend on the nature of the underlying asset - that is, whether the underlying asset is property or an asset other than property - and the terms and conditions of the lease.  If finalized, the proposed ASU would converge the most significant aspects of the FASB s and IASB s accounting for lease contracts.  In March 2014, the FASB and IASB re-deliberated the ASU and were unable to reach a consensus on certain key issues.  Deliberations are expected to continue over the coming months.  An effective date is not expected before 2017.Proposed ASU - Financial Instruments - Credit LossesIn December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed ASU,  Financial Instruments-Credit Losses.   This proposed ASU would result in a single model to account for credit losses on financial assets.  The proposal would remove the probable threshold for recognizing credit losses and require a current estimate of the expected contractual cash flows an entity does not expect to collect on financial assets that are not measured at fair value through the income  statement.  The proposal would also change current practice for recognizing OTTI and interest income on debt securities.  In addition, the proposal would result in the recognition of an allowance for credit losses for nearly all types of debt instruments.  The proposal would expand the credit quality disclosures to require information about changes in the factors that influence estimates of credit losses and the reasons for those changes.  The FASB has decided on a current expected credit loss model for financial assets measured at amortized cost.  Currently, the FASB is re-deliberating based on comments received. An effective date has not been determined.  On July 24, 2014, the IASB issued its new standard which replaces the current  incurred loss  model.  It will be effective Jan. 1, 2018 and early adoption is permitted.Proposed ASU - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial LiabilitiesIn February 2013, the FASB issued a proposed ASU,  Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.   This proposed ASU would affect entities that hold financial assets and liabilities and would change the methodology related to recognition, classification, measurement and presentation of financial instruments.  The scope of the proposed ASU would exclude instruments classified in shareholders  equity, share-based arrangements, pension plans, leases, guarantees and derivative instruments accounted under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging.  Financial assets would be classified and measured based on the instrument s cash flow characteristics and an entity s business model for managing the instrument.  Financial liabilities would generally be measured initially at their transaction price.  The proposal includes three principal classification and measurement categories:  (1) fair value for which all changes in fair value are recognized in net income; (2) fair value with qualifying changes in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income; and (3) amortized cost.  This proposed ASU requires financial assets and liabilities to be presented separately on the balance sheet by measurement category.  In addition, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities accounted for under amortized cost would be presented parenthetically on the balance sheet.  In January 2014, the FASB tentatively decided not to continue to pursue the business model assessment approach for classification and measurement of financial assets.  The FASB is currently re-deliberating based on the comments received and is expected to issue a final  64 BNY Mellonstandard by the end of 2014.  An effective date is not expected before 2017. Adoption of new accounting standardsFor a discussion of the adoption of new accounting standards, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.IFRSIFRS are a set of standards and interpretations adopted by the IASB.  Commencing with the issuance of the  roadmap  in November 2008, the SEC has considered potential methods of incorporation of IFRS in the United States.  The use of IFRS for U.S. companies with global operations would allow for streamlined reporting, allow for easier access to foreign capital markets and investments, and facilitate cross-border acquisitions, ventures or spin-offs.  In July 2012, the SEC staff released its final report on IFRS.  This Final Report will be used by the SEC Commissioners to decide whether and, if so, when and how to incorporate IFRS into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies.  It is not known when the SEC will make a final decision on the adoption of IFRS in the United States.  While the SEC decides whether IFRS will be required to be used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, a number of countries have mandated the use of IFRS by BNY Mellon s subsidiaries in their statutory reports filed in those countries.  Such countries include Belgium, Brazil, the Netherlands, Australia, Hong Kong, Canada and South Korea.  Update to Internal Controls - Integrated Framework On May 14, 2013, The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) issued an updated version of its Internal Control - Integrated Framework (the  2013 Framework ).  Originally issued in 1992, the framework helps organizations design, implement and evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls.  Updates to the framework were intended to clarify internal control concepts and simplify their use and application.  The 1992 framework will remain available during the transition period, which extends to Dec. 15, 2014, after which time COSO will  consider it as superseded by the 2013 Framework.  Concurrent with the 2013 Framework release, COSO indicated that organizations reporting externally should clearly disclose whether the original Framework or the updated Framework was utilized.  BNY Mellon is currently transitioning to the COSO 2013 Framework as it relates to our Internal Control over Financial Reporting.Regulatory developmentsFor a summary of additional regulatory matters relevant to our operations, see  Supervision and regulation  in our 2013 Annual Report and  Regulatory Developments  in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014.Capital Planning and Stress TestingBNY Mellon s capital distributions are subject to supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ( Federal Reserve ).  The Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ) and the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests ( DFAST ) are a major component of the Federal Reserve s oversight.  CCAR and the Federal Reserve s capital planning rules require BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including BNY Mellon, to submit annual capital plans to their Federal Reserve Bank.  BNY Mellon and other covered BHCs may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and to which the Federal Reserve has not objected.  The Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan for quantitative or qualitative reasons, including if the covered BHC will not meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and a 5% Basel I Tier 1 common ratio for each quarter throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon under stressed scenarios. In June 2014, the U.S. federal banking agencies proposed to revise aspects of their rules pertaining to CCAR and DFAST (the  Proposed Rules ).   These revisions include, among other changes, proposals to limit the ability of a BHC subject to CCAR to make capital distributions in a given quarter if its actual capital issuances in that quarter are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan and to eliminate the need to obtain prior approval for  accretive  issuances of capital instruments that would qualify BNY Mellon 65 for inclusion in the numerator of regulatory capital ratios.  Comments are due to the U.S. federal banking agencies concerning the Proposed Rules by August 11, 2014.Money Market Fund ReformsRegulators have focused on risks that money market funds ( MMFs ) may pose to financial stability.  In July 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission finalized rules (the  MMF Rules ) that will require institutional prime money market funds (including institutional municipal money market funds) to maintain a floating net asset value ( NAV ) based on the current market value of the securities in their portfolios rounded to the fourth decimal place.  Previously, such funds could maintain a stable NAV of $1.00.  Government MMFs and retail MMFs are exempt from these requirements and may continue to maintain a stable NAV.  The MMF Rules also provide new tools to MMFs  boards of directors to address a run on a fund.  In particular the MMF Rules allow a MMF s board of directors to impose liquidity fees of up to 2% or temporarily suspend redemptions for up to 10 days if a MMF s level of weekly liquid assets falls below 30 percent of its total assets.  Government MMFs are not required to adopt the liquidity fees and redemption gates provision, but they may opt to do so.  In addition, there is a two year transition period before the floating NAV and the fees and gate requirements become effective. Beyond these primary reforms, the MMF Rules also expand disclosure requirements, tighten the diversification requirements and impose additional stress testing requirements.  There is an 18 month transition period before these requirements become effective.  The MMF Rules also introduce a new Form N-CR, which would require MMFs to disclose certain events (for example, the imposition or removal of fees or gates, the primary consideration or factors taken into account by a board of directors, in its decision related to fees and gates, and portfolio security defaults).  The MMF Rules establish a nine month transition period before reporting on Form N-CR is required.The final MMF Rules are highly complex, and we are continuing to evaluate their impact.  It is possible that the MMR Rules could result in changes to the size and composition of our AUM, AUC/A, and total deposits.  Supplementary Leverage RatioIn July 2013, the U.S. federal banking agencies finalized the Basel III-based capital rules in the U.S.  Among other new requirements, the Basel III Final Capital Rules introduced a 3% supplementary leverage ratio ( SLR ) for all Advanced Approaches banking organizations.  The SLR becomes effective as a binding ratio on Jan. 1, 2018, although commencing in January 2015 each Advanced Approaches banking organization is required to calculate and report its SLR.  Unlike the Tier 1 leverage ratio that has long applied to U.S. banking organizations, the SLR includes certain off-balance sheet exposures in the denominator, including the potential future exposure of derivative contracts and notional amount of commitments.In April 2014, the U.S. federal banking agencies adopted an  enhanced  increased SLR for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of more than $700 billion or assets under custody of more than $10 trillion, as well as their depository institution subsidiaries.  Under these applicability criteria, the eight U.S. banking organizations that have been identified as G-SIBs by the Financial Stability Board as global systemically important banks ( G-SIBs ) (including BNY Mellon) and their insured depository institution subsidiaries would be subject to the enhanced SLR.  The enhanced SLR requires BNY Mellon and the other U.S. G-SIB bank holding companies to maintain a 2% buffer over the minimum 3% SLR for a total 5% SLR in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments.  In addition, the eight G-SIBs  insured depository institution subsidiaries, regardless of the amount of their consolidated assets or assets under custody, must maintain a 6% SLR to be deemed  well-capitalized  under the  prompt corrective action  framework.  The final enhanced SLR rule for G-SIBs, like the SLR more generally applicable to all Advanced Approaches banking organizations, will become effective on Jan. 1, 2018.The Basel Committee finalized changes to the denominator of the Basel III leverage ratio in January 2014.  These modifications would change the exposure measurement methodology for the on-balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet activities of banking organizations subject to the SLR.  Among other changes, the final Basel III denominator allows daily averaging for leverage ratio calculations and adopts more favorable  credit conversion factors  for  66 BNY Melloncommitments.  In April 2014, the U.S. federal banking agencies issued a notice of proposed rulemaking ( NPR ) to modify the SLR denominator in the U.S. to align with the final Basel III changes to the leverage ratio denominator.  The proposed changes would apply to all Advanced Approaches banking organizations subject to the SLR and all the G-SIBs and their insured depository institution subsidiaries subject to the enhanced SLR.  The rules proposed in the NPR have not been finalized. Credit Exposure LimitsThe Basel Committee issued a Consultative Document in March 2013 outlining a supervisory framework for measuring and controlling large exposures. The framework is conceptually analogous to the Federal Reserve s proposed single counterparty credit limits implementing section 165(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Federal Reserve has yet to finalize the single counterparty credit limits.  In finalizing the single counterparty credit limits, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to take into account the Basel Committee s work on the large exposure framework. The Basel Committee finalized its large exposures framework in April 2014.  Once it becomes effective on Jan. 1, 2019, the Final Large Exposures Framework:  Limits exposures between a banking organization and a single counterparty or a group of connected counterparties to 25% of Tier 1 capital;  Limits exposures between G-SIBs to 15% of Tier 1 capital;  Excludes intraday interbank exposures and sovereign and central bank exposures; and  Allows banking organizations to use risk-based capital measurements for securities financing transactions (e.g., value-at-risk) until the Basel Committee finalizes a revised exposure measurement methodology.This framework will become binding on U.S. banking organizations only to the extent that the U.S. federal banking agencies implement the framework in the U.S., including through the Federal Reserve s adoption of final single counterparty credit limits implementing section 165(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act. European Initiatives Concerning Proprietary TradingThe European Commission has outlined the European Union s proposals on structural banking reform.  The proposed reforms, which in some respects are similar to the Volcker Rule in the United States implementing section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, would ban proprietary trading for systemically important banks and grant supervisory authority to separate risky trading activity from deposit taking.  The recent European Parliamentary elections and consequent reassignment of offices in both executive and legislative functions in Brussels means that further development of these proposals likely will be delayed until at least the third quarter of 2014.EMIR (European Market Infrastructure Regulation), and the MiFID 2 (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 2) and MiFIR (Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation) packageThe European Markets Infrastructure Regulation ( EMIR ) is directed at reducing systemic risk through the centralized clearing of derivatives, and covers trade reporting, trade repositories and the performance and activities of central counterparties.  Full implementation of EMIR will continue through 2014 and beyond, and details remain to be determined as regulatory technical standards continue to be issued.  MiFID 2 and MiFIR have extended the scope of the original MiFID 1 to non-equity instruments such as bonds and derivatives, and create additional regulatory requirements on subject institutions, including BNY Mellon and certain of its clients.  Full implementation is not anticipated to occur until 2016.  Taken together, EMIR and the MiFID 2 are expected to alter certain market practices, and the impact of these standards may increase capital, margin, and other costs for market participants as well as introducing further operational complexity.Recovery and ResolutionIn April 2014, the European Parliament adopted the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive ( BRRD ), the Single Resolution Mechanism ( SRM ), and the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive ( DGSD ).  The BRRD establishes a bail-in regime, requires banks to prepare recovery plans, and grants authorities the power to resolve failing institutions.  The SRM implements the BRRD in the Eurozone and participating Member States and establishes a Single BNY Mellon 67 Resolution Fund.  The DGSD further protects depositors with pre-funded guarantee schemes in each Member State.  In June 2014, the European Commission released a public consultation on the contributions of credit institutions to resolution financing arrangements.  Under this consultation, credit institutions and investment firms subject to the BRRD and SRM (which include The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV) will be required to contribute to a resolution fund based on the amount of the institution s liabilities and the institution s risk profile.Resolution PlanningLarge BHCs must develop and submit to the Federal Reserve and FDIC for review resolution plans for their rapid and orderly liquidation in the event of material financial distress or failure.  In a joint press release issued in August 2014, the Federal Reserve and FDIC announced completion of their reviews of the second round of resolution plans submitted in 2013 by 11 large, complex banking organizations, referred to as the  first wave filers  and including BNY Mellon.  In addition to confidential supervisory letters the agencies are sending to each firm regarding the specific shortcomings of the individual plans and the expectations for the firms  submissions in July 2015, the joint press release noted two common features of the plans  shortcomings across firms: (i) assumptions that the agencies regard as unrealistic or inadequately supported and (ii) the failure to make or identify changes in firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance the prospects for orderly resolution.  The FDIC determined that the plans submitted by the first-wave filers are not credible and do not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  The Federal Reserve was silent as to its determination regarding the credibility of the plans, but did state that the first-wave filers, including BNY Mellon, must take immediate action to improve their resolvability and reflect those improvements in their 2015 plans. See the discussion of this matter in our 2013 Annual Report in  Risk Factors - Operational and Business Risk - We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision and have been impacted by a significant amount of rulemaking as a result of the 2008 financial crisis.  Failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.  Website informationOur website is www.bnymellon.com.  We currently make available the following information under the Investor Relations portion of our website.  With respect to SEC filings, we post such information as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. All of our SEC filings, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to these reports, SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 and any proxy statement mailed by us in connection with the solicitation of proxies; Financial statements and footnotes prepared using Extensible Business Reporting Language ( XBRL ); Our Earnings Release, Quarterly Earnings Review, Quarterly Financial Trends and selected management conference calls and presentations;  Other regulatory disclosures, including:  Basel II.5 Market Risk Disclosures; Pillar 3 Disclosures; Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council - Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for a Bank With Domestic and Foreign Offices; Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies; and the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test Results for BNY Mellon and The Bank of New York Mellon; and Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Directors Code of Conduct and the Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Resources and Compensation, Risk and Technology Committees of our Board of Directors.The contents of the website listed above or any other websites referenced herein are not incorporated into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  68 BNY MellonItem 1. Financial Statements The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries) Consolidated Income Statement (unaudited)(a) Results for the second quarter of 2013 and the first six months of 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.BNY Mellon 69 The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)Consolidated Income Statement (unaudited) (continued) Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation used for the earnings per share calculationQuarter ended Year-to-date(in millions)June 30, 2014 March 31, 2014 June 30, 2013 June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (a)$554 $661 $831 $1,215 $565Less:  Earnings allocated to participating securities (a)10 13 15 23 10Change in the excess of redeemable value over the fair value of noncontrolling interestsN/A N/A   N/A 1Net income applicable to the common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation after required adjustments for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share (a)$544 $648 $816 $1,192 $554 (a) Results for the second quarter of 2013 and the first six months of 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)Represents stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and participating securities outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted average common shares because their effect would be anti-dilutive.(c)Basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method are determined on the net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation reported on the income statement less earnings allocated to participating securities, and the change in the excess of redeemable value over the fair value of noncontrolling interests, if applicable.N/A - Not applicable.See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 70 BNY MellonThe Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statement (unaudited)(a)Prior periods were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders was $287 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, $203 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2014 , $(736) million for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, $490 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014 and $(1,008) million for the six months ended June 30, 2013.See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.BNY Mellon 71 The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 BNY MellonThe Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (unaudited)  Six months ended June 30,(in millions)2014 2013Operating activities   Net income (a)$1,288 $646Net (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests(37) (56)Net income applicable to shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (a)1,251 590Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities:   Provision for credit losses(30) (43)Pension plan contributions(25) (22)Depreciation and amortization646 706Deferred tax (benefit) (a) (101) (32)Net securities (gains) and venture capital (income)(43) (83)Change in trading activities1,027 (1,692)Change in accruals and other, net (a)(340) (383)Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities2,385 (959)Investing activities   Change in interest-bearing deposits with banks(6,376) 2,682Change in interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks(1,298) 12,960Purchases of securities held-to-maturity(457) (6,724)Paydowns of securities held-to-maturity880 687Maturities of securities held-to-maturity93 24Purchases of securities available-for-sale(32,071) (17,468)Sales of securities available-for-sale20,806 9,218Paydowns of securities available-for-sale3,480 5,266Maturities of securities available-for-sale2,584 1,442Net change in loans(7,743) (3,800)Sales of loans and other real estate222 80Change in federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements(5,901) (3,385)Change in seed capital investments(205) (38)Purchases of premises and equipment/capitalized software(380) (258)Acquisitions, net of cash(25) (5)Dispositions, net of cash64  Other, net9 (1,313)Net cash (used for) investing activities(26,318) (632)Financing activities   Change in deposits21,238 164Change in federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements653 5,173Change in payables to customers and broker-dealers1,535 (828)Change in other borrowed funds892 (304)Change in commercial paper(69) (227)Net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt2,691 1,497Repayments of long-term debt(2,321) (1,128)Proceeds from the exercise of stock options136 136Issuance of common stock13 12Issuance of preferred stock  494Treasury stock acquired(806) (583)Common cash dividends paid(370) (330)Preferred cash dividends paid(36) (25)Other, net79 (120)Net cash provided by financing activities23,635 3,931Effect of exchange rate changes on cash11 (127)Change in cash and due from banks   Change in cash and due from banks(287) 2,213Cash and due from banks at beginning of period6,460 4,727Cash and due from banks at end of period$6,173 $6,940Supplemental disclosures   Interest paid$169 $178Income taxes paid268 175Income taxes refunded141 17(a)Information for the six months ended June 30, 2013 was restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.BNY Mellon 73 The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (unaudited) The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholdersNon-redeemablenoncontrollinginterests ofconsolidatedinvestmentmanagementfundsTotalpermanentequity Redeemablenon-controllinginterests/temporaryequity(in millions, except pershare amounts)Preferred stockCommonstockAdditionalpaid-incapitalRetainedearningsAccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome (loss),net of taxTreasurystockBalance at Dec. 31, 2013 (a)$1,562$13$24,002$15,952$(892)$(3,140)$783$38,280(b)$230Shares issued to shareholders of noncontrolling interests         32Redemption of subsidiary shares from noncontrolling interests  (31)    (31) (54)Other net changes in noncontrolling interests  10   93103 23Net income   1,251  371,288  Other comprehensive income (loss)    490 (4)486 8Dividends:          Common stock at $0.32 per share   (371)   (371)  Preferred stock   (36)   (36)  Repurchase of common stock     (806) (806)  Common stock issued under:          Employee benefit plans  13    13  Direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan  10    10  Stock awards and options exercised  299    299  Balance at June 30, 2014$1,562$13$24,303$16,796$(402)$(3,946)$909$39,235(b)$239(a)Retained earnings was restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)Includes total The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation common shareholders  equity of $35,935 million at Dec. 31, 2013 and $36,764 million at June 30, 2014.See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 74 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 - Basis of presentationBasis of presentationThe accounting and financial reporting policies of BNY Mellon, a global financial services company, conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) and prevailing industry practices.  The accompanying consolidated financial statements are unaudited.  In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods have been made.  These financial statements should be read in conjunction with BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2013.  Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with current period presentation.  In the first quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon elected to early adopt the new accounting guidance included in Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-01,  Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects - a Consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force.   As a result, we restated the prior period financial statements to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of the new accounting guidance.  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Use of estimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates based upon assumptions about future economic and market conditions which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in our financial statements.  Although our current estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions could be worse than anticipated  in those estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Amounts subject to estimates are items such as the allowance for loan losses and lending-related commitments, the fair value of financial instruments and other-than-temporary impairments, goodwill and intangible assets and pension accounting.  Among other effects, such changes in estimates could result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill and intangible assets and establishment of allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments as well as changes in pension and post-retirement expense.Note 2 - Accounting changes and new accounting guidanceASU - 2014-01 - Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects - a Consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task ForceIn January 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU 2014-01,  Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects - a Consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force.   This ASU permits entities that invest in a qualified affordable housing project through a limited liability entity to elect to account for the income statement effects of such investments using the proportional amortization method if certain conditions are met.  The impact to the income statement was recorded in income tax expense.  Investments in qualified affordable housing projects not accounted for using the proportional amortization method were accounted for as an equity method investment or cost method investment.  In addition, the Company included the value of commitments to fund qualified affordable housing projects on the balance sheet.  These investments are recorded in other assets.  In the first quarter of 2014, we restated the prior period financial statements to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of the new accounting guidance.BNY Mellon 75 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The table below presents the impact of the new accounting guidance on our previously reported earnings per share applicable to the common shareholders.The table below presents the impact of the new accounting guidance on our previously reported income statements. Note 3 - Acquisitions and dispositionsWe sometimes structure our acquisitions with both an initial payment and later contingent payments tied to post-closing revenue or income growth.  Contingent payments totaled less than $1 million in the second quarter of 2014 and $1 million in the first six months of 2014.At June 30, 2014, we were potentially obligated to pay additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures based on contractual agreements, could amount to $5 million over the next 3 months.  The acquisitions and dispositions described below did not have a material impact on BNY Mellon s results of operations.Acquisitions in 2014On May 1, 2014, BNY Mellon acquired the remaining 65% interest of HedgeMark International, LLC for $26 million.  Since 2011, BNY Mellon held a 35% ownership stake in HedgeMark.  Goodwill related to this acquisition totaled $47 million and is included in the Investment Services business.  Customer relations intangible assets related to this acquisition are included in our Investment Services business and totaled $1 million. Dispositions in 2014On April 23, 2014, BNY Mellon sold the subsidiary that conducts corporate trust business in Mexico that was part of our Investment Services business, for $65 million.  As a result of this sale, we recorded an after-tax gain of $4 million.  In addition, goodwill of $8 million and customer relationship intangible assets of $1 million were removed from the balance sheet as a result of this sale.Dispositions in 2013On May 31, 2013, BNY Mellon sold SourceNet Solutions, our accounts payable outsourcing support services provider that was part of our Investment Services business, for $11 million.  As a result of this sale, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $2 million and an after-tax gain of $10 million. On Sept. 27, 2013, Newton Management Limited, together with Newton Investment Management Limited, an investment boutique of BNY Mellon, sold Newton s private client business, for $120 million.  As a result of this sale, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $27 million and an after-tax gain of $5 million.  In addition, goodwill of $69 million and customer relationship intangible assets of $7 million were removed from the balance sheet as a result of this sale. 76 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 4 - SecuritiesThe following tables present the amortized cost, the gross unrealized gains and losses and the fair value of securities at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013.(a)Includes $14.1 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.(b)Previously included in the Grantor Trust.  The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.(c)Includes gross unrealized gains of $67 million and gross unrealized losses of $312 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income primarily related to Agency RMBS that were transferred from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity in 2013.  The unrealized gains and losses will be amortized into net interest revenue over the estimated lives of the securities.BNY Mellon 77 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)Includes $11.4 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.(b)Previously included in the Grantor Trust.  The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.(c)Includes gross unrealized gains of $74 million and gross unrealized losses of $343 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income primarily related to Agency RMBS that were transferred from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity in 2013.  The unrealized gains and losses will be amortized into net interest revenue over the estimated lives of the securities.The following table presents the gross securities gains, losses and impairments. Temporarily impaired securitiesAt June 30, 2014, substantially all of the unrealized losses on the investment securities portfolio were attributable to an increase in interest rates and credit spreads widening since purchase.  We do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will have to sell these securities.The following tables show the aggregate related fair value of investments with a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and those that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. 78 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)Previously included in the Grantor Trust.  The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.(b)Includes gross unrealized losses for 12 months or more of $312 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income primarily related to Agency RMBS that were transferred from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity in 2013.  The unrealized gains and losses will be amortized into net interest revenue over the estimated lives of the securities.(a)Previously included in the Grantor Trust.  The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.(b)Includes gross unrealized losses for 12 months or more of $343 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income primarily related to Agency RMBS that were transferred from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity in 2013.  The unrealized gains and losses will be amortized into net interest revenue over the estimated lives of the securities.BNY Mellon 79 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The following table shows the maturity distribution by carrying amount and yield (on a tax equivalent basis) of our investment securities portfolio at June 30, 2014.(a)Yields are based upon the amortized cost of securities.(b)Includes money market funds.Other-than-temporary impairmentWe routinely conduct periodic reviews of all securities using economic models to identify and evaluate each investment security to determine whether OTTI has occurred.  Various inputs to the economic models are used to determine if an unrealized loss on securities is other-than-temporary.  For example, the most significant inputs related to non-agency RMBS are: Default rate - the number of mortgage loans expected to go into default over the life of the transaction, which is driven by the roll rate of loans in each performance bucket that will ultimately migrate to default; and Severity - the loss expected to be realized when a loan defaults.To determine if an unrealized loss is other-than-temporary, we project total estimated defaults of the underlying assets (mortgages) and multiply that calculated amount by an estimate of realizable value upon sale of these assets in the marketplace (severity) in order to determine the projected collateral loss.  In determining estimated default rate and severity  assumptions, we review the performance of the underlying securities, industry studies, market forecasts, as well as our view of the economic  outlook affecting collateral.  We also evaluate the current credit enhancement underlying the bond to determine the impact on cash flows.  If we determine that a given security will be subject to a write-down or loss, we record the expected credit loss as a charge to earnings. The table below shows the projected weighted-average default rates and loss severities for the 2007, 2006 and late 2005 non-agency RMBS and the securities previously held in the Grantor Trust that we established in connection with the restructuring of our investment securities portfolio in 2009, at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013. 80 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The following table provides net pre-tax securities gains (losses) by type. The following table reflects investment securities credit losses recorded in earnings.  The beginning balance represents the credit loss component for which OTTI occurred on debt securities in prior periods.  The additions represent the first time a debt security was credit impaired or when subsequent credit impairments have occurred.  The deductions represent credit losses on securities that have been sold, are required to be sold, or for which it is our intention to sell.Debt securities credit loss roll forward (in millions)2Q142Q13Beginning balance as of March 31$106$174Add: Initial OTTI credit losses 16 Subsequent OTTI credit losses23Less: Realized losses for securities sold129Ending balance as of June 30$107$164Debt securities credit loss roll forwardYear-to-date(in millions)20142013Beginning balance as of Jan. 1$119$288Add: Initial OTTI credit losses216 Subsequent OTTI credit losses57Less: Realized losses for securities sold19147Ending balance as of June 30$107$164 Pledged assetsAt June 30, 2014, BNY Mellon had pledged assets of $80 billion, including $61 billion pledged as collateral for potential borrowings at the Federal Reserve Discount Window.  The components of the assets pledged at June 30, 2014 included $70 billion of securities, $4 billion of trading assets, $5 billion of loans and $1 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks.If there has been no borrowing at the Federal Reserve Discount Window, the Federal Reserve generally allows banks to freely move assets in and out of their pledged assets account to sell or repledge the assets for other purposes.  BNY Mellon regularly moves assets in and out of its pledged asset account at the Federal Reserve.At June 30, 2014, pledged assets included $8 billion for which the recipients were permitted to sell or repledge the assets delivered.At Dec. 31, 2013, BNY Mellon had pledged assets of $81 billion, including $64 billion pledged as collateral for potential borrowing at the Federal Reserve Discount Window.  The components of the assets pledged at Dec. 31, 2013 included $70 billion of securities, $5 billion of trading assets, $5 billion of loans and $1 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks.  At Dec. 31, 2013, pledged assets included $5 billion for which the recipients were permitted to sell or repledge the assets delivered.We also obtain securities as collateral including receipts under resale agreements, securities borrowed, derivative contracts and custody agreements on terms which permit us to sell or repledge the securities to others.  At June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, the market value of the securities received that can be sold or repledged was $40 billion and $31 billion, respectively.  We routinely sell or repledge these securities through delivery to third parties.  As of June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, the market value of securities collateral sold or repledged was $16 billion and $13 billion, respectively.BNY Mellon 81 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 5 - Loans and asset qualityLoansThe table below provides the details of our loan portfolio and industry concentrations of credit risk at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013.(a)Net of unearned income of $918 million at June 30, 2014 and $1,020 million at Dec. 31, 2013 primarily on domestic and foreign lease financings. Our loan portfolio is comprised of three portfolio segments: commercial, lease financings and mortgages.  We manage our portfolio at the class level which is comprised of six classes of financing receivables: commercial, commercial real estate, financial institutions, lease financings, wealth management loans and mortgages and other residential mortgages.  The following tables are presented for each class of financing receivable, and provide additional information about our credit risks and the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses. 82 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Allowance for credit lossesTransactions in the allowance for credit losses are summarized as follows:(a)Includes $1,748 million of domestic overdrafts, $17,685 million of margin loans and $842 million of other loans at June 30, 2014.(a)Includes $1,078 million of domestic overdrafts, $16,430 million of margin loans and $788 million of other loans at March 31, 2014.BNY Mellon 83 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)Includes $1,762 million of domestic overdrafts, $14,434 million of margin loans and $657 million of other loans at June 30, 2013.Allowance for credit losses activity for the six months ended June 30, 2014Wealthmanagementloans andmortgagesOtherresidentialmortgagesAllOtherForeignTotal(in millions)CommercialCommercialreal estateFinancialinstitutionsLeasefinancingsBeginning balance$83$41$49$37$24$54$ $56$344Charge-offs    (1)(2) (2)(5)Recoveries1    1  2Net (charge-offs) recoveries1   (1)(1) (2)(3)Provision(10)4(6)(4)(1)(6) (7)(30)Ending balance$74$45$43$33$22$47$ $47$311Allowance for credit losses activity for the six months ended June 30, 2013Wealthmanagementloans andmortgagesOtherresidentialmortgagesAllOtherForeignTotal(in millions)CommercialCommercialreal estateFinancialinstitutionsLeasefinancingsBeginning balance$104$30$36$49$30$88$2$48$387Charge-offs(2)    (6)  (8)Recoveries     1  1Net (charge-offs)(2)    (5)  (7)Provision(9) (2)(8)(11)(8)(2)(3)(43)Ending balance$93$30$34$41$19$75$ $45$337 84 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Nonperforming assetsThe table below presents the distribution of our nonperforming assets. Nonperforming assetsJune 30, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013(in millions)Nonperforming loans:   Other residential mortgages$105 $117Commercial13 15Wealth management loans and mortgages12 11Foreign4 6Commercial real estate4 4Total nonperforming loans138 153Other assets owned4 3Total nonperforming assets (a)$142 $156(a)Loans of consolidated investment management funds are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio.  Included in the loans of consolidated investment management funds are nonperforming loans of $68 million at June 30, 2014 and $16 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and allowance for loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from the nonperforming assets table above.At June 30, 2014, undrawn commitments to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual or reduced rate were not material. Lost interestLost interest        (in millions)2Q141Q142Q13YTD14YTD13Amount by which interest income recognized on nonperforming loans exceeded reversals$1$ $1$1$2Amount by which interest income would have increased if nonperforming loans at period-end had been performing for the entire period$2$2$3$4$5Impaired loansThe tables below provide information about our impaired loans.  We use the discounted cash flow method as the primary method for valuing impaired loans. Impaired loansQuarter ended June 30, 2014 March 31, 2014 June 30, 2013(in millions)Averagerecordedinvestment Interestincomerecognized Averagerecordedinvestment Interestincomerecognized Averagerecordedinvestment InterestincomerecognizedImpaired loans with an allowance:           Commercial$13 $  $14 $  $50 $1Commercial real estate2   3   2  Financial institutions        1  Wealth management loans and mortgages8   9   19  Foreign6   6   9  Total impaired loans with an allowance29   32   81 1Impaired loans without an allowance:           Commercial        4  Commercial real estate1   1   13  Financial institutions        2  Wealth management loans and mortgages2   2   4  Total impaired loans without an allowance (a)3   3   23  Total impaired loans$32 $  $35 $  $104 $1(a)When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under the accounting standard related to impaired loans.BNY Mellon 85 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Impaired loansYear-to-date June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013(in millions)Averagerecordedinvestment Interestincomerecognized Averagerecordedinvestment InterestincomerecognizedImpaired loans with an allowance:       Commercial$14 $  $52 $2Commercial real estate2   7  Financial institutions    1  Wealth management loans and mortgages8   21  Foreign6   9  Total impaired loans with an allowance30   90 2Impaired loans without an allowance:       Commercial    3  Commercial real estate1   9  Financial institutions    2  Wealth management loans and mortgages2   4  Total impaired loans without an allowance (a)3   18  Total impaired loans$33 $  $108 $2(a)When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under the accounting standard related to impaired loans.Impaired loansJune 30, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013(in millions)Recordedinvestment Unpaidprincipalbalance Relatedallowance (a) Recordedinvestment Unpaidprincipalbalance Relatedallowance (a)Impaired loans with an allowance:           Commercial$13 $13 $3 $15 $20 $2Commercial real estate2 3 1 2 4 1Financial institutions           Wealth management loans and mortgages7 8 2 9 9 3Foreign5 5 1 6 17 1Total impaired loans with an allowance27 29 7 32 50 7Impaired loans without an allowance:           Commercial real estate1 1 N/A 1 1 N/AWealth management loans and mortgages2 2 N/A 3 3 N/ATotal impaired loans without an allowance (b)3 3 N/A 4 4 N/ATotal impaired loans (c)$30 $32 $7 $36 $54 $7(a)The allowance for impaired loans is included in the allowance for loan losses.(b)When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under the accounting standard related to impaired loans.(c)Excludes an aggregate of less than $1 million of impaired loans in amounts individually less than $1 million at both June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013.  The allowance for loan loss associated with these loans totaled less than $1 million at both June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013. 86 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Past due loansThe table below sets forth information about our past due loans.  (a)Past due loans at June 30, 2014 include a loan to an asset manager, Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ), which was reestablished as a fully collateralized performing loan in the first quarter of 2014.In August 2007, BNY Mellon loaned $312 million to Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ), secured by securities and cash.  Sentinel filed for bankruptcy in 2007, and BNY Mellon s status as a secured lender is the subject of continuing litigation.  In 2010, the district court ruled in favor of BNY Mellon, and the loan was repaid.  An appellate court reversed the district court s ruling on Aug. 26, 2013, and remanded to the district court for further proceedings.  BNY Mellon held no loans to Sentinel at Dec. 31, 2013.  On Jan. 22, 2014, the Bankruptcy Court, ordered that the funds distributed to BNY Mellon after the district court s favorable decision be returned to the bankruptcy estate and held in a reserve earmarked for purposes of BNY Mellon s claim until the district court issues its decision on the merits of the challenges to BNY Mellon s lien.  Accordingly, the loan was reestablished as a fully collateralized performing loan in the first quarter of 2014.  Through  June 30, 2014, accrued interest on the reestablished loan totaled $27 million.  The ongoing litigation could result in a ruling adverse to BNY Mellon at some point in the future.  For additional information on our legal proceedings related to this matter, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs )A modified loan is considered a TDR if the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties and the creditor grants a concession to the debtor that would not otherwise be considered.  A TDR may include a transfer of real estate or other assets from the debtor to the creditor, or a modification of the term of the loan.  Not all modified loans are considered TDRs.The following table presents TDRs that occurred in the second quarter of 2014, first quarter of 2014 and second quarter of 2013.TDRs2Q14 1Q14 2Q13  Outstandingrecorded investment  Outstandingrecorded investment  Outstandingrecorded investment(dollars in millions)Number of contractsPre-modification Post-modification  Number of contractsPre-modification Post-modification  Number of contractsPre-modification Post-modification Other residential mortgages28 $5 $6 31 $5 $5 28 $5 $7Wealth management loans and mortgages1                Foreign      1 5 4      Total TDRs29 $5 $6 32 $10 $9 28 $5 $7BNY Mellon 87 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Other residential mortgagesThe modifications of the other residential mortgage loans in the second quarter of 2014, first quarter of 2014 and second quarter of 2013 consisted of reducing the stated interest rates and in certain cases, a forbearance of default and extending the maturity dates.  The modified loans are primarily collateral dependent for which the value is based on the fair value of the collateral.  Wealth management loan and mortgagesThe modifications of the wealth management loans and mortgages in the second quarter of 2014 consisted of a change in payment terms and extensions of the maturity date.  The difference between the book value of the loan and the estimated fair value of the collateral is included in the allowance for credit losses.ForeignThe modification of the foreign loan in the first quarter of 2014 consisted of extending the maturity  date of the loan.  The difference between the book value of the loan and the net present value discounted at the original loan s rate is included in the allowance for credit losses.TDRs that subsequently defaultedThere were 6 residential mortgage loans that had been restructured in a TDR during the previous 12 months and have subsequently defaulted in the second quarter of 2014.  The total recorded investment of these loans was less than $1 million.Credit quality indicatorsOur credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities and avoid single name/industry concentrations.  Each customer is assigned an internal credit rating which is mapped to an external rating agency grade equivalent based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may change over time.The following tables set forth information about credit quality indicators.Commercial loan portfolioThe commercial loan portfolio is divided into investment grade and non-investment grade categories based on rating criteria largely consistent with those of the public rating agencies.  Each customer in the portfolio is assigned an internal credit rating.  These internal credit ratings are generally consistent with the ratings categories of the public rating agencies.  Customers with ratings consistent with BBB- (S&P)/Baa3 (Moody s) or better are considered to be investment grade.  Those clients with ratings lower than this threshold are considered to be non-investment grade. Wealth management loans and mortgages 88 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Wealth management non-mortgage loans are not typically rated by external rating agencies.  A majority of the wealth management loans are secured by the customers  investment management accounts or custody accounts.  Eligible assets pledged for these loans are typically investment-grade, fixed-income securities, equities and/or mutual funds.  Internal ratings for this portion of the wealth management portfolio, therefore, would equate to investment-grade external ratings.  Wealth management loans are provided to select customers based on the pledge of other types of assets, including business assets, fixed assets or a modest amount of commercial real estate.  For the loans collateralized by other assets, the credit quality of the obligor is carefully analyzed, but we do not consider this portfolio of loans to be investment grade.Credit quality indicators for wealth management mortgages are not correlated to external ratings.  Wealth management mortgages are typically loans to high-net-worth individuals, which are secured primarily by residential property.  These loans are primarily interest-only adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan-to-value ratio of 65% at origination.  In the wealth management portfolio, less than 1% of the mortgages were past due at June 30, 2014.At June 30, 2014, the wealth management mortgage portfolio was comprised of the following geographic concentrations:  California - 21%; New York - 21%; Massachusetts - 15%; Florida - 9%; and other - 34%.Other residential mortgagesThe other residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of 1-4 family residential mortgage loans and totaled $1,309 million at June 30, 2014 and $1,385 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  These loans are not typically correlated to external ratings.  Included in this portfolio at June 30, 2014 are $382 million of mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans.  As of June 30, 2014, the purchased loans in this portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 76% at origination and 18% of the serviced loan balance was at least 60 days delinquent.  The properties securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in California, Florida, Virginia, the tri-state area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut) and Maryland. OverdraftsOverdrafts primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients and totaled $7,791 million at June 30, 2014 and $3,715 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally repaid within two business days.Other loansOther loans primarily includes loans to consumers that are fully collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities.Margin loansWe had $17,685 million of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at June 30, 2014 compared with $15,652 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  Margin loans are collateralized with marketable securities and borrowers are required to maintain a daily collateral margin in excess of 100% of the value of the loan.  We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to margin loans.Reverse repurchase agreementsReverse repurchase agreements are transactions fully collateralized with high-quality liquid securities.  These transactions carry minimal credit risk and therefore are not allocated an allowance for credit losses.Note 6 - Goodwill and intangible assetsImpairment testingGoodwill impairment testing is performed at least annually at the reporting unit level.  Intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate they may be impaired.BNY Mellon s three business segments include seven reporting units for which goodwill impairment testing is performed on an annual basis.  In the second quarter of 2014, BNY Mellon conducted an annual goodwill impairment test on all seven reporting units.  The estimated fair value of the seven reporting units exceeded the carrying value and no goodwill impairment was recognized.BNY Mellon 89 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) GoodwillThe tables below provide a breakdown of goodwill by business.(a)Includes the reclassification of goodwill associated with the Newton Private Clients business from Investment Management to the Other segment.(b)Other changes in goodwill include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.Intangible assetsThe tables below provide a breakdown of intangible assets by business.(a)Includes the reclassification of intangible assets associated with the Newton Private Clients business from Investment Management to the Other segment.(b)Includes an $8 million intangible asset impairment recorded in the second quarter of 2013.(c)Other changes in intangible assets include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications. 90 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The table below provides a breakdown of intangible assets by type.(a)Intangible assets not subject to amortization have an indefinite life.N/A - Not applicable.Estimated annual amortization expense for current intangibles for the next five years is as follows:Note 7 - Other assets (a)Includes Federal Reserve Bank stock of $444 million and $441 million, respectively, at cost.(b)Prior period was restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Certain seed capital and private equity investments valued using net asset value per shareIn our Investment Management business, we manage investment assets, including equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for institutions and other investors.  As part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds.  BNY Mellon also holds private equity investments, which consist of investments in private equity funds, mezzanine financings and direct equity investments.  Seed capital and private equity investments are included in other assets.  Consistent with our policy to focus on our core activities, we continue to reduce our exposure to private equity investments.The fair value of certain of these investments has been estimated using the net asset value ( NAV ) per share of BNY Mellon s ownership interest in the funds.  The table below presents information about BNY Mellon s investments in seed capital and private equity investments that have been valued using NAV.BNY Mellon 91 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Seed capital and private equity investments valued using NAV June 30, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013(dollar amounts in millions)FairvalueUnfunded commitments Redemption frequencyRedemption notice period FairvalueUnfundedcommitments Redemption frequencyRedemption notice periodSeed capital and other funds (a)$318 $ Daily-quarterly0-180 days $275 $23Monthly-yearly3-45 daysPrivate equity funds (b)82 21N/AN/A 86 31N/AN/ATotal$400 $21   $361 $54  (a)Other funds include various market neutral, leveraged loans, hedge funds, real estate and structured credit funds.  Redemption notice periods vary by fund.(b)Private equity funds primarily include numerous venture capital funds that invest in various sectors of the economy.  Private equity funds do not have redemption rights.  Distributions from such funds will be received as the underlying investments in the funds are liquidated.N/A - Not applicable.Note 8 - Net interest revenueThe following table provides the components of net interest revenue presented on the consolidated income statement. 92 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 9 - Employee benefit plansThe components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows. Note 10 - Restructuring chargesAggregate restructuring charges are included in M&I, litigation and restructuring charges on the income statement.  Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, restructuring charges were recorded in the businesses.  Prior to the fourth quarter of 2013, all restructuring charges were reported in the Other segment.  Severance payments are primarily paid over the salary continuance period in accordance with the separation plan.  Streamlining actionsIn the second quarter of 2014, we disclosed streamlining actions which included rationalizing our staff and simplifying and automating global processes primarily related to actions taken across investment services, technology, and operations.  This charge was comprised of $125 million of severance costs.  The following table presents the activity in the reserve through June 30, 2014. Streamlining actions   restructuring reserve activity(in millions)SeveranceOtherTotalOriginal restructuring charge$125$ $125Utilization(16) (16)Balance at June 30, 2014$109$ $109The table below presents the restructuring charge if it had been allocated by business.  Streamlining actions   restructuring charge by business(in millions)2Q14Investment Management$15Investment Services76Other segment (including Business Partners)34Total restructuring charge (recovery)$125Operational Excellence InitiativesIn 2011, we announced our Operational Excellence Initiatives which include an expense reduction initiative impacting approximately 1,500 positions, as well as additional initiatives to transform operations, technology and corporate services that will increase BNY Mellon 93 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) productivity and reduce the growth rate of expenses.  We recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $107 million related to the Operational Excellence Initiatives in 2011.  This charge was comprised of $78 million of severance costs and $29 million primarily for operating lease-related items and consulting costs.  In the second quarter of 2014, we recorded a net recovery of $5 million.  The following table presents the activity in the restructuring reserve related to the Operational Excellence Initiatives through June 30, 2014.The table below presents the restructuring charge if it had been allocated by business.  Operational Excellence Initiatives 2011   restructuring charge (recovery) by business Total charges since inception(in millions)2Q141Q14 Investment Management$ $  $52Investment Services(3)  82Other segment (including Business Partners)(2)  11Total restructuring charge (recovery)$(5)$  $145 Note 11 - Income taxesThe statutory federal income tax rate is reconciled to our effective income tax rate below:  (a)Results for the first six months of 2013 were restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  As previously disclosed, on Nov. 10, 2009, BNY Mellon filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court challenging the Internal Revenue Service s ( IRS ) disallowance of certain foreign tax credits claimed for the 2001 and 2002 tax years.  Trial was held from April 16 to May 17, 2012.  On Feb. 11, 2013, BNY Mellon received an adverse decision from the U.S. Tax Court.  On Sept. 23, 2013, the U.S. Tax Court amended its prior ruling to allow BNY Mellon an interest expense deduction and to exclude certain items from taxable income.  The net impact of the court rulings for all years involved and related interest decreased after-tax income in 2013 by $593 million.  The U.S. Tax Court ruling was finalized on Feb. 20, 2014.  BNY Mellon appealed the decision to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals on March 5, 2014.  See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Our total tax reserves as of June 30, 2014 were $829 million compared with $869 million at March 31, 2014.  If these tax reserves were unnecessary, $829 million would affect the effective tax rate in future periods.  We recognize accrued interest and penalties, if applicable, related to income taxes in income tax expense.  Included in the balance sheet at June 30, 2014 is accrued interest, where applicable, of $197 million.  The additional tax benefit related to interest for the six months ended June 30, 2014 was $1 million compared with additional tax expense of $291 million for the six months ended June 30, 2013.It is reasonably possible the total reserve for uncertain tax positions could decrease within the next 12 months by an amount up to $226 million as a result of  94 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) adjustments related to tax years that are still subject to examination.  With the exception of 2006, our federal income tax returns are closed for all periods through 2008.  The years 2009 and 2010 are no longer under examination, but remain open for carryback claims.  Our New York State and New York City income tax returns are closed to examination through 2010.  Our UK income tax returns are closed to examination through 2011. Note 12 - Securitizations and variable interest entitiesBNY Mellon s VIEs generally include certain retail, institutional and alternative investment funds offered to its retail and institutional customers in which it acts as the fund s investment manager.  BNY Mellon earns management fees on these funds as well as performance fees in certain funds.  It may also provide start-up capital in its new funds.  These VIEs are included in the scope of ASU 2010-10, which defers the application of ASU 2009-17 for certain investment funds, and are reviewed for consolidation based on the guidance in ASC 810, Consolidation. BNY Mellon has other VIEs, including securitization trusts and CLOs, in which BNY Mellon serves as the investment manager.  In addition, we provide trust and custody services for a fee to entities sponsored by other corporations in which we have no other interest.  These VIEs are evaluated under the guidance included in ASU 2009-17.  BNY Mellon has two securitizations and several CLOs, which were assessed and consolidated in accordance with ASU 2009-17. The following tables present the incremental assets and liabilities included in BNY Mellon s consolidated financial statements, after applying intercompany eliminations, as of June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, based on the assessments performed in accordance with ASC 810 and ASU 2009-17.  The net assets of any consolidated VIE are solely available to settle the liabilities of the VIE and to settle any investors  ownership liquidation requests, including any seed capital invested in the VIE by BNY Mellon.   BNY Mellon is not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to any of our VIEs.  Additionally, creditors of any consolidated VIEs do not have any recourse to the general credit of BNY Mellon.Non-consolidated VIEsAs of June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, the following assets related to the VIEs where BNY Mellon is not the primary beneficiary are included in our consolidated financial statements.Non-consolidated VIEs at June 30, 2014Maximum loss exposure(in millions)AssetsLiabilitiesOther$138$ $138Non-consolidated VIEs at Dec. 31, 2013Maximum loss exposure(in millions)AssetsLiabilitiesOther$134$ $134 The maximum loss exposure indicated in the above tables relates solely to BNY Mellon s seed capital or residual interests invested in the VIEs.BNY Mellon 95 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 13 - Preferred stockBNY Mellon has 100 million authorized shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.01.  The table below  summarizes BNY Mellon s preferred stock issued and outstanding at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013.(a)The carrying value of the Series C and Series D preferred stock is recorded net of issuance costs.Holders of both the Series A and Series C preferred stock are entitled to receive dividends on each dividend payment date (March 20, June 20, September 20 and December 20 of each year), if declared by BNY Mellon s Board of Directors.  Holders of the Series D preferred stock are entitled to receive dividends, if declared by our board of directors, on each June 20 and December 20, to but excluding June 20, 2023; and on each March 20, June 20, September 20 and December 20, from and including June 20, 2023.  BNY Mellon s ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of our common stock or any of our shares that rank junior to the preferred stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of any assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of BNY Mellon will be prohibited, subject to  certain restrictions, in the event that we do not declare and pay in full preferred dividends for the then current dividend period of the Series A preferred stock or the last preceding dividend period of the Series C and Series D preferred stock.All of the outstanding shares of the Series A preferred stock are owned by Mellon Capital IV, which will pass through any dividend on the Series A preferred stock to the holders of its Normal Preferred Capital Securities.  All of the outstanding shares of the Series C and Series D preferred stock are held by the depositary of the depositary shares, which will pass through the applicable portion of any dividend on the Series C and Series D preferred stock to the holders of record of their respective depositary shares.   96 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The following table presents a summary of the preferred stock dividends paid.(a)Dividends are noncumulative.(b)Dividend per Normal Preferred Capital Security of Mellon Capital IV, each representing 1/100th interest in a share of Series A preferred stock.(c)Dividend per depositary share, each representing a 1/4,000th interest in a share of Series C preferred stock.(d)Dividend per depository share, each representing a 1/100th interest in a share of Series D preferred stock.The preferred stock is not subject to the operation of a sinking fund and is not convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock or any other class or series of our other securities.  Subject to the restrictions in BNY Mellon s 2007 replacement capital covenant, subsequently amended on May 8 and Sept. 11, 2012, we may redeem the Series A preferred stock, in whole or in part, at our option.  We may also, at our option, redeem the shares of the Series C preferred stock in whole or in part, on or after the dividend payment date in September 2017 and the Series D preferred stock in whole or in part, on or after the dividend payment date in June 2023. Both the Series C or Series D preferred stock can be redeemed in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as defined in the Certificate of Designations of the Series C preferred stock and the Certificate of Designations of the Series D preferred stock).  Terms of the Series A preferred stock, Series C preferred stock, and Series D preferred stock are more fully described in each of their Certificate of Designations, each of which is filed as an Exhibit to this Form 10-Q.BNY Mellon 97 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 14 - Other comprehensive income (loss)(a)The reclassification adjustment related to the unrealized gain (loss) on assets available-for-sale is recorded as net securities gains on the Consolidated Income Statement.  The amortization of prior service credit, net loss and initial obligation included in net periodic benefit cost is recorded as staff expense on the Consolidated Income Statement.  See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the location of the reclassification adjustment related to cash flow hedges on the Consolidated Income Statement.Components of other comprehensive income (loss) Year-to-date June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013(in millions)Pre-taxamountTax(expense)benefitAfter-taxamount Pre-taxamountTax(expense)benefitAfter-taxamountForeign currency translation:       Foreign currency translation adjustments arising during the period$73$41$114 $(238)$(66)$(304)Total foreign currency translation7341114 (238)(66)(304)Unrealized gain (loss) on assets available-for-sale:       Unrealized gain (loss) arising during the period537(165)372 (1,224)482(742)Reclassification adjustment (a)(40)13(27) (80)33(47)Net unrealized gain (loss) on assets available-for-sale497(152)345 (1,304)515(789)Defined benefit plans:       Amortization of prior service credit, net loss and initial obligation included in net periodic benefit cost (a)61(25)36 119(45)74Total defined benefit plans61(25)36 119(45)74Unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges:       Unrealized hedge gain (loss) arising during period3(3)  184(76)108Reclassification adjustment (a)(3)2(1) (197)81(116)Net unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges (1)(1) (13)5(8)Total other comprehensive income (loss)$631$(137)$494 $(1,436)$409$(1,027)(a)The reclassification adjustment related to the unrealized gain (loss) on assets available-for-sale is recorded as net securities gains on the Consolidated Income Statement.  The amortization of prior service credit, net loss and initial obligation included in net periodic benefit cost is recorded as staff expense on the Consolidated Income Statement.  See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the location of the reclassification adjustment related to cash flow hedges on the Consolidated Income Statement. 98 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 15 - Fair value measurementThe guidance related to  Fair Value Measurement  included in ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and establishes a framework for measuring fair value.  It establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and expands the disclosures about instruments measured at fair value.  ASC 820 requires consideration of a company s own creditworthiness when valuing liabilities.The standard provides a consistent definition of fair value, which focuses on exit price in an orderly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions.  If there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability, a change in valuation technique or the use of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate.  In such instances, determining the price at which willing market participants would transact at the measurement date under current market conditions depends on the facts and circumstances and requires the use of significant judgment.  The objective is to determine from weighted indicators of fair value a reasonable point within the range that is most representative of fair value under current market conditions.Determination of fair valueFollowing is a description of our valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities measured at fair value.  We have established processes for determining fair values.  Fair value is based upon quoted market prices in active markets, where available.  For financial instruments where quotes from recent exchange transactions are not available, we determine fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis, comparison to similar instruments, and the use of financial models.  Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates.  Model-based pricing uses inputs of observable prices, where available, for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, option volatilities and other factors.  Models are benchmarked and validated by an independent internal risk management function.  Our valuation  process takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration concerns, and observability of model parameters.  Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.Most derivative contracts are valued using internally developed models which are calibrated to observable market data and employ standard market pricing theory for their valuations.  An initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming time-discounting based on a AA credit curve.  Then, to arrive at a fair value that incorporates counter-party credit risk, a credit adjustment is made to these results by discounting each trade s expected exposures to the counterparty using the counterparty s credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market.  We also adjust expected liabilities to the counterparty using BNY Mellon s own credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market.  Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative position is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads as well as those of our counterparties.In certain cases, recent prices may not be observable for instruments that trade in inactive or less active markets.  Upon evaluating the uncertainty in valuing financial instruments subject to liquidity issues, we make an adjustment to their value.  The determination of the liquidity adjustment includes the availability of external quotes, the time since the latest available quote and the price volatility of the instrument.Certain parameters in some financial models are not directly observable and, therefore, are based on management s estimates and judgments.  These financial instruments are normally traded less actively.  We apply valuation adjustments to mitigate the possibility of error and revision in the model based estimate value.  Examples include products where parameters such as correlation and recovery rates are unobservable.  The methods described above for instruments that trade in inactive or less active markets may produce a current fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.  We believe our methods of determining fair value are appropriate and consistent with other market participants.  However, the use of different methodologies or different assumptions to value certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value.BNY Mellon 99 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Valuation hierarchyASC 820 established a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date.  The three levels are described below.Level 1: Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.  Level 1 assets and liabilities include debt and equity securities, derivative financial instruments actively traded on exchanges and U.S. Treasury securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over-the-counter markets.Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, for example, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable or can be corroborated, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.  Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt instruments that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded securities and derivative instruments whose model inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by market-observable data.  Examples in this category are agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities and over-the-counter derivative contracts.Level 3: Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.  Examples in this category include  certain private equity investments, derivative contracts that are highly structured or long-dated, and interests in certain securitized financial assets.A financial instrument s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.SecuritiesWhere quoted prices are available in an active market, we classify the securities within Level 1 of  the valuation hierarchy.  Securities include both long and short positions.  Level 1 securities include highly liquid government bonds, money market funds, foreign covered bonds and exchange-traded equities.  If quoted market prices are not available, we estimate fair values using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows.  Examples of such instruments, which would generally be classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy, include agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, state and political subdivisions, commercial mortgage-backed securities, sovereign debt, corporate bonds and foreign covered bonds.For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency that employ financial models or obtain comparison to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.Specifically, the pricing sources obtain recent transactions for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and speed of prepayment for the types of transaction and apply such variables to similar types of bonds.  We view these as observable transactions in the current marketplace and classify such securities as Level 2.  Pricing sources discontinue pricing any specific security whenever they determine there is insufficient observable data to provide a good faith opinion on price.In addition, we have significant investments in more actively traded agency RMBS and other types of securities such as sovereign debt.  The pricing sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from three major inter-dealer brokers.  The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other information feeds from the inter-dealer brokers.For securities with bond insurance, the financial strength of the insurance provider is analyzed and that information is included in the fair value assessment for such securities.In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to the valuation, we classify those securities in Level 3 of the valuation  100 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) hierarchy.  Securities classified within Level 3 primarily include securities of state and political subdivisions and distressed debt securities.At June 30, 2014, more than 99% of our securities were valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.  Less than 1% of our securities were priced based on economic models and non-binding dealer quotes, and are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.  Consolidated collateralized loan obligationsBNY Mellon values assets in consolidated CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market.  The returns to the note holders are solely dependent on the assets and accordingly equal the value of those assets.  Based on the structure of the CLOs, the valuation of the assets is attributable to the note holders.  Changes in the values of assets and liabilities are reflected in the income statement as investment and other income and interest of investment management fund note holders, respectively.  Consolidated CLOs are generally classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.DerivativesWe classify exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.  Examples include exchange-traded equity and foreign exchange options.  Since few other classes of derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, most of our derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observable market parameters, and we classify them in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  Such derivatives include swaps and options, foreign exchange spot and forward contracts and credit default swaps.  Derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable market parameters in markets that lack two-way flow are classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  Examples include long-dated interest rate or currency swaps and options, where parameters may be unobservable for longer maturities; and certain products, where correlation risk is unobservable.  The fair value of these derivatives compose approximately 1% of our derivative financial instruments.  Additional disclosures of derivative instruments are provided in  Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Loans and unfunded lending-related commitmentsWhere quoted market prices are not available, we generally base the fair value of loans and unfunded lending-related commitments on observable market prices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics.  If observable market prices are not available, we base the fair value on estimated cash flows adjusted for credit risk which are discounted using an interest rate appropriate for the maturity of the applicable loans or the unfunded lending-related commitments.Unrealized gains and losses, if any, on unfunded lending-related commitments carried at fair value are classified in other assets and other liabilities, respectively.  Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments carried at fair value are generally classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.Seed capitalIn our Investment Management business, we manage investment assets, including equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for institutions and other investors.  As part of that activity, we make seed capital investments in certain funds.  Seed capital is included in other assets.  When applicable, we value seed capital based on the published NAV of the fund.  We include funds in which ownership interests in the fund are publicly traded in an active market and institutional funds in which investors trade in and out daily in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.  We include open-end funds where investors are allowed to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than daily and where our interest in the fund contains no other rights or obligations in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  However, we generally include investments in funds that allow investors to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than monthly in Level 3, unless actual redemption prices are observable.For other types of investments in funds, we consider all of the rights and obligations inherent in our ownership interest, including the reported NAV as well as other factors that affect the fair value of our interest in the fund.  To the extent the NAV measurements reported for the investments are based BNY Mellon 101 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) on unobservable inputs or include other rights and obligations (e.g., obligation to meet cash calls), we generally classify them in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.Certain interests in securitizationsFor certain interests in securitizations that are classified in securities available-for-sale, trading assets and long-term debt, we use discounted cash flow models, which generally include assumptions of projected finance charges related to the securitized assets, estimated net credit losses, prepayment assumptions and estimates of payments to third-party investors.  When available, we compare our fair value estimates and assumptions to market activity and to the actual results of the securitized portfolio.  Private equity investmentsOur Other segment includes holdings of nonpublic private equity investment through funds managed by third-party investment managers.  We value private equity investments initially based upon the transaction price, which we subsequently adjust to reflect expected exit values as evidenced by financing and sale transactions with third parties or through ongoing reviews by the investment managers. Private equity investments also include publicly held equity investments, generally obtained through the initial public offering of privately held equity investments.  These equity investments are often held in a partnership structure.  Publicly held investments are marked-to-market at the quoted public value less adjustments for regulatory or contractual sales restrictions or adjustments to reflect the difficulty in selling a partnership interest.Discounts for restrictions are quantified by analyzing the length of the restriction period and the volatility of the equity security.  Publicly held private equity investments are primarily classified in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.The following tables present the financial instruments carried at fair value at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, by caption on the consolidated balance sheet and by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy (as described above).  We have included credit ratings information in certain of the tables because the information indicates the degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and significant changes in ratings classifications could result in increased risk for us.  There were no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the second quarter of 2014. 102 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) BNY Mellon 103 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash collateral.  Netting is applicable to derivatives not designated as hedging instruments included in trading assets or trading liabilities, and derivatives designated as hedging instruments included in other assets or other liabilities.  Netting is allocated to the derivative products based on the net fair value of each product.(b)Includes certain interests in securitizations.(c)Previously included in the Grantor Trust.  The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.(d)Includes private equity investments and seed capital. 104 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) BNY Mellon 105 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash collateral.  Netting is applicable to derivatives not designated as hedging instruments included in trading assets or trading liabilities, and derivatives designated as hedging instruments included in other assets or other liabilities.  Netting is allocated to the derivative products based on the net fair value of each product.(b)Includes certain interests in securitizations.(c)Previously included in the Grantor Trust.  The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.(d)Includes private equity investments and seed capital. 106 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)At June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, foreign covered bonds and sovereign debt were included in Level 1 and Level 2 in the valuation hierarchy.  All other assets in the table are Level 2 assets in the valuation hierarchy.(b)Previously included in the Grantor Trust.  The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.Changes in Level 3 fair value measurementsOur classification of a financial instrument in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy is based on the significance of the unobservable factors to the overall fair value measurement.  However, these instruments generally include other observable components that are actively quoted or validated to third-party sources; accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due to observable parameters as well as the unobservable parameters in our valuation methodologies.  We also frequently manage the risks of Level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivatives positions that are  Level 1 or 2 instruments which are not included in the table; accordingly, the gains or losses below do not reflect the effect of our risk management activities related to the Level 3 instruments.The Company has a Level 3 Pricing Committee which evaluates the valuation techniques used in determining the fair value of Level 3 assets and liabilities.The tables below include a roll forward of the balance sheet amounts for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 (including the change in fair BNY Mellon 107 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.Fair value measurements for assets using significant unobservable inputs for the three months ended June 30, 2014 Available-for-sale securities Trading assets   Total assets(in millions)State andpoliticalsubdivisions Debt and equityinstruments Derivativeassets(a)Otherassets Fair value at March 31, 2014$11 $1 $19 $110 $141Total gains or (losses) for the period:         Included in earnings (or changes in net assets) (b)  (c) 3(c) 3(d) 6Purchases and sales:         Purchases      6 6Sales      (21) (21)Fair value at June 30, 2014$11 $1 $22 $98 $132Change in unrealized gains or (losses) for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for assets held at the end of the reporting period  $  $5 $  $5(a)Derivative assets are reported on a gross basis.(b)Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses).  Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).  (c)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.(d)Reported in investment and other income.Fair value measurements for liabilities using significant unobservable inputs for the three months ended June 30, 2014 Trading liabilities Total liabilities(in millions)Derivative liabilities(a)Fair value at March 31, 2014$41 $41Total (gains) or losses for the period:   Included in earnings (or changes in net liabilities)7(b) 7Purchases3 3Fair value at June 30, 2014$51 $51Change in unrealized (gains) or losses for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for liabilities held at the end of the reporting period$10 $10(a)Derivative liabilities are reported on a gross basis.(b)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.Fair value measurements for assets using significant unobservable inputs for the three months ended June 30, 2013  Available-for-sale securities Trading assets    Assets ofconsolidatedinvestmentmanagementfunds (in millions)State and  politicalsubdivisions Debt and  equityinstruments Derivativeassets(a)Otherassets Totalassets of operations Fair value at March 31, 2013$44 $11 $42 $112 $209$44 Total gains or (losses) for the period:           Included in earnings (or changes in net assets)8(b) (c) (c)5(d)13 (e)Sales  (9)   (4) (13)  Fair value at June 30, 2013$52 $2 $42 $113 $209$44 Change in unrealized gains or (losses) for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for assets held at the end of the reporting period  $  $1 $  $1$  (a)Derivative assets are reported on a gross basis.(b)Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses).  Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).  (c)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.(d)Reported in investment and other income.(e)Reported in income from consolidated investment management funds.  108 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Fair value measurements for liabilities using significant unobservable inputs for the three months ended June 30, 2013 Trading liabilities Total liabilities(in millions)Derivative liabilities(a)Fair value at March 31, 2013$170 $170Transfers out of Level 3(4) (4)Total (gains) or losses for the period:   Included in earnings (or changes in net liabilities)(49)(b)(49)Fair value at June 30, 2013$117 $117Change in unrealized (gains) or losses for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for liabilities held at the end of the reporting period$(23) $(23)(a)Derivative liabilities are reported on a gross basis.(b)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.Fair value measurements for assets using significant unobservable inputs for the six months ended June 30, 2014 Available-for-sale securities Trading assets   Total assets(in millions)State andpoliticalsubdivisions Debt and equityinstruments Derivativeassets(a)Otherassets Fair value at Dec. 31, 2013$11 $1 $22 $105 $139Transfers out of Level 3    (1)   (1)Total gains or (losses) for the period:         Included in earnings (or changes in net assets) (b) (c)1(c)5(d)6Purchases and sales:         Purchases      14 14Sales      (26) (26)Fair value at June 30, 2014$11 $1 $22 $98 $132Change in unrealized gains or (losses) for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for assets held at the end of the reporting period  $  $3 $  $3(a)Derivative assets are reported on a gross basis.(b)Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses).  Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).  (c)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.(d)Reported in investment and other income.Fair value measurements for liabilities using significant unobservable inputs for the six months ended June 30, 2014 Trading liabilities Total liabilities(in millions)Derivative liabilities(a)Fair value at Dec. 31, 2013$75 $75Transfers out of Level 3(37) (37)Total (gains) or losses for the period:   Included in earnings (or changes in net liabilities)10(b)10Purchases3 3Fair value at June 30, 2014$51 $51Change in unrealized (gains) or losses for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for liabilities held at the end of the reporting period$13 $13(a)Derivative liabilities are reported on a gross basis.(b)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.BNY Mellon 109 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Fair value measurements for assets using significant unobservable inputs for the six months ended June 30, 2013  Available-for-sale securities Trading assets    Assets ofconsolidatedinvestmentmanagementfunds (in millions)State and  politicalsubdivisions Debt and  equityinstruments Derivativeassets(a)Otherassets Totalassets of operations Fair value at Dec. 31, 2012$45 $48 $58 $120 $271$44 Transfers out of Level 3     (5)   (5)  Total gains or (losses) for the period:           Included in earnings (or changes in net assets)7(b)3(c)(11)(c) (d)(1) (e)Purchases and sales:           Purchases      3 3  Sales  (49)   (10) (59)  Fair value at June 30, 2013$52 $2 $42 $113 $209$44 Change in unrealized gains or (losses) for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for assets held at the end of the reporting period  $  $(10) $  $(10)$  (a)Derivative assets are reported on a gross basis.(b)Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses).  Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).  (c)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.(d)Reported in investment and other income.(e)Reported in income from consolidated investment management funds. Fair value measurements for liabilities using significant unobservable inputs for the six months ended June 30, 2013 Trading liabilities Total liabilities(in millions)Derivative liabilities(a)Fair value at Dec. 31, 2012$224 $224Transfers out of Level 3(4) (4)Total (gains) or losses for the period:   Included in earnings (or changes in net liabilities)(105)(b)(105)Settlements2 2Fair value at June 30, 2013$117 $117Change in unrealized (gains) or losses for the period included in earnings (or changes in net assets) for liabilities held at the end of the reporting period$(38) $(38)(a)Derivative liabilities are reported on a gross basis.(b)Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basisUnder certain circumstances, we make adjustments to fair value our assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments although they are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis.  An example would be the recording of an impairment of an asset. The following tables present the financial instruments carried on the consolidated balance sheet by caption and by level in the fair value hierarchy as of June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, for which a nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded during the quarters ended June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013. 110 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at June 30, 2014 Total carryingvalue(in millions)Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Loans (a)$  $122 $6 $128Other assets (b)  11   11Total assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis$  $133 $6 $139 Assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at Dec. 31, 2013 Total carryingvalue(in millions)Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Loans (a)$  $128 $9 $137Other assets (b)  15   15Total assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis$  $143 $9 $152(a)During the quarters end June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, the fair value of these loans decreased $2 million and $1 million, respectively, based on the fair value of the underlying collateral as allowed by ASC 310, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a loan, with an offset to the allowance for credit losses.(b)Includes other assets received in satisfaction of debt and loans held for sale.  Loans held for sale are carried on the balance sheet at the lower of cost or market value.Level 3 unobservable inputsThe following tables present the unobservable inputs used in the valuation of assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.Quantitative information about Level 3 fair value measurements of assets(dollars in millions)Fair value atJune 30, 2014 Valuation techniquesUnobservable inputRangeMeasured on a recurring basis:     Available-for-sale securities:     State and political subdivisions $11Discounted cash flowExpected credit loss4%Trading assets:     Debt and equity instruments:     Distressed debt 1Discounted cash flowExpected maturity1 - 10 years    Expected credit loss45%Derivative assets:     Interest rate:     Structured foreign exchange swaptions 5Option pricing model (a)Correlation risk0%-25%    Long-term foreign exchange volatility9%-17%Foreign exchange contracts:     Long-term foreign exchange options 1Option pricing model (a)Long-term foreign exchange volatility17%Equity:     Equity options 16Option pricing model (a)Long-term equity volatility20%-28%Measured on a nonrecurring basis:     Loans 6Discounted cash flowsTiming of sale0-12 months    Cap rate8%    Cost to complete/sell0%-40%Quantitative information about Level 3 fair value measurements of liabilities(dollars in millions)Fair value atJune 30, 2014 Valuation techniquesUnobservable inputRangeMeasured on a recurring basis:     Trading liabilities:     Derivative liabilities:     Interest rate:     Structured foreign exchange swaptions $44Option pricing model (a)Correlation risk0%-25%    Long-term foreign exchange volatility9%-17%Equity:     Equity options 7Option pricing model (a)Long-term equity volatility19%-26%(a)The option pricing model uses market inputs such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and volatility to calculate the fair value of the option.BNY Mellon 111 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Estimated fair value of financial instrumentsThe carrying amounts of our financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting methods - see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report.  The following disclosure discusses these instruments on a uniform fair value basis.  However, active markets do not exist for a significant portion of these instruments.  For financial instruments where quoted prices from identical assets and liabilities in active markets do not exist, we determine fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis and comparison to similar instruments.  Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates.  Other judgments would result in different fair values.  The assumptions used at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013 include discount rates ranging principally from 0.56% to 3.74%.  The fair value information supplements the basic financial statements and other traditional financial data presented throughout this report.A summary of the practices used for determining fair value and the respective level in the valuation hierarchy for financial assets and liabilities not recorded at fair value follows.Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and interest-bearing deposits with banksThe estimated fair value of interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks is equal to the book value as these interest-bearing deposits are generally considered cash equivalents.  These instruments are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.  The estimated fair value of interest-bearing deposits with banks is generally determined using discounted cash flows and duration of the instrument to maturity.  The primary inputs used to value these transactions are interest rates based on current LIBOR market rates and time to maturity.  Interest-bearing deposits with banks are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreementsThe estimated fair value of federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements is based on inputs such as interest rates and tenors.  Federal  funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.Securities held-to-maturityWhere quoted prices are available in an active market for identical assets and liabilities, we classify the securities as Level 1 within the valuation hierarchy.  Securities are defined as both long and short positions.  Level 1 securities include U.S. Treasury securities.  If quoted market prices are not available for identical assets and liabilities, we estimate fair value using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows.  Examples of such instruments, which would generally be classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy, include certain agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and state and political subdivision securities.  For securities where quotes from active markets are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency that employ financial models or obtain comparison to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.Specifically, the pricing sources obtain active market prices for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and speed of prepayment for the types of transaction and apply such variables to similar types of bonds.  We view these as observable transactions in the current marketplace and classify such securities as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.  LoansFor residential mortgage loans, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, adjusting where appropriate for prepayment estimates, using interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms and maturities to borrowers.  The estimated fair value of margin loans and overdrafts is equal to the book value due to the short-term nature of these assets.  The estimated fair value of other types of loans, including our term loan program, is determined using discounted cash flows.  Inputs include current LIBOR market rates adjusted for credit spreads.   112 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) These loans are generally classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.Other financial assetsOther financial assets include cash, the Federal Reserve Bank stock and accrued interest receivable.  Cash is classified as Level 1 within the valuation hierarchy.  The Federal Reserve Bank stock is not redeemable or transferable.  The estimated fair value of the Federal Reserve Bank stock is based on the issue price and is classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.  Accrued interest receivable is generally short-term.  As a result, book value is considered to equal fair value.  Accrued interest receivable is included as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.Noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing depositsInterest-bearing deposits are comprised of money market rate and demand deposits, savings deposits and time deposits.  Except for time deposits, book value is considered to equal fair value for these deposits due to their short duration to maturity or payable on demand feature.  The fair value of interest-bearing time deposits is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.  Inputs primarily consist of current LIBOR market rates and time to maturity.  For all noninterest-bearing deposits, book value is considered to equal fair value as a result of the short duration of the deposit.  Interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing deposits are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreementsThe estimated fair value of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements is based on inputs such as interest rates and tenors.  Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy. Payables to customers and broker-dealersThe estimated fair value of payables to customers and broker-dealers is equal to the book value, due to the demand feature of the payables to customers and broker-dealers, and are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.Borrowings Borrowings primarily consist of overdrafts of subcustodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses, commercial paper and accrued interest payable.  The estimated fair value of overdrafts of subcustodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses is considered to equal book value as a result of the short duration of the overdrafts.  Overdrafts are typically repaid within two days.  The estimated fair value of our commercial paper is based on discount and duration of the commercial paper.  Our commercial paper matures within 397 days from date of issue and is not redeemable prior to maturity or subject to voluntary prepayment.  Our commercial paper is included in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  Accrued interest payable is generally short-term.  As a result, book value is considered to equal fair value.  Accrued interest payable is included as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.Long-term debtThe estimated fair value of long-term debt is based on current rates for instruments of the same remaining maturity or quoted market prices for the same or similar issues. Long-term debt is classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.BNY Mellon 113 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The following tables present the estimated fair value and the carrying amount of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, by caption on the consolidated balance sheet and by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy (as described above).  The table below summarizes the carrying amount of the hedged financial instruments, the notional amount of the hedge and the unrealized gain (loss) (estimated fair value) of the derivatives. 114 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 16 - Fair value optionASC 825 provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments.The following table presents the assets and liabilities, by type, of consolidated investment management funds recorded at fair value. Assets and liabilities of consolidated investment management funds, at fair value(in millions)June 30, 2014Dec. 31, 2013Assets of consolidated investment management funds:  Trading assets$9,402$10,397Other assets1,026875Total assets of consolidated investment management funds$10,428$11,272Liabilities of consolidated investment management funds:  Trading liabilities$9,123$10,085Other liabilities646Total liabilities of consolidated investment management funds$9,129$10,131BNY Mellon values assets in consolidated CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market.  The returns to the note holders are solely dependent on the assets and accordingly equal the value of those assets.  Mark-to-market valuation best reflects the limited interest BNY Mellon has in the economic performance of the consolidated CLOs.  Changes in the values of assets and liabilities are reflected in the income statement as investment income of consolidated investment management funds.We have elected the fair value option on $240 million of long-term debt in connection with ASC 810.  The fair value of this long-term debt was $338 million at June 30, 2014 and $321 million at Dec. 31, 2013.  The long-term debt is valued using observable market inputs and is included in Level 2 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.The following table presents the changes in fair value of the long-term debt included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue in the consolidated income statement. (a)The change in fair value of the long-term debt is approximately offset by an economic hedge included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.Note 17 - Derivative instruments We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk including interest rate risk, equity price risk and foreign currency risk, as well as credit risk.  Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market-maker for our customers and facilitating customer trades.  Positions managed for our own account are immaterial to our foreign exchange and other trading revenue and to our overall results of operations. The notional amounts for derivative financial instruments express the dollar volume of the transactions; however, credit risk is much smaller.  We perform credit reviews and enter into netting agreements and collateral arrangements to minimize the credit risk of derivative financial instruments.  We enter into offsetting positions to reduce exposure to foreign currency, interest rate and equity price risk. Use of derivative financial instruments involves reliance on counterparties.  Failure of a counterparty to honor its obligation under a derivative contract is a risk we assume whenever we engage in a derivative contract.  There were no counterparty default losses in the second quarter of 2014 or 2013. In the second quarter of 2014, we received $3.1 million as a partial recovery on a series of previously terminated swaps.Hedging derivativesWe utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations.  For hedges of available-for-sale investment securities, deposits and long-term debt, the hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and the interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a fixed rate item and is a fair value hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to BNY Mellon 115 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) eliminate fair value variability by converting fixed-rate interest payments to LIBOR.  The available-for-sale investment securities hedged consist of sovereign debt, U.S. Treasury bonds, agency commercial mortgage-backed securities and covered bonds that had original maturities of 30 years or less at initial purchase.  The swaps on all of these investment securities are not callable.  All of these securities are hedged with  pay fixed rate, receive variable rate  swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon.  At June 30, 2014, $6.6 billion face amount of securities were hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $6.9 billion.The fixed rate long-term debt instruments hedged generally have original maturities of five to 30 years.  We issue both callable and non-callable debt.  The non-callable debt is hedged with  receive fixed rate, pay variable rate  swaps with similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon.  Callable debt is hedged with callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt.  At June 30, 2014, $15.7 billion par value of debt was hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $15.7 billion.In addition, we enter into foreign exchange hedges.  We use forward foreign exchange contracts with maturities of nine months or less to hedge our British Pound, Euro, Hong Kong Dollar, Indian Rupee and Singapore Dollar foreign exchange exposure with respect to foreign currency forecasted revenue and expense transactions in entities that have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.  As of June 30, 2014, the hedged forecasted foreign currency transactions and designated forward foreign exchange contract hedges were $267 million (notional), with a pre-tax gain of $7 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.  This gain will be reclassified to income or expense over the next nine months.We use forward foreign exchange contracts with remaining maturities of nine months or less as hedges against our foreign exchange exposure to Australian Dollar, Euro and Swiss Franc with respect to interest-bearing deposits with banks and their associated forecasted interest revenue.  These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges.  These hedges are  effected such that their maturities and notional values match those of the deposits with banks.  As of June 30, 2014, the hedged interest-bearing deposits with banks and their designated forward foreign exchange contract hedges were $487 million (notional), with a pre-tax loss of less than $1 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.  This loss will be reclassified to net interest revenue over the next nine months.Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries.  These forward foreign exchange contracts have maturities of less than two years.  The derivatives employed are designated as hedges of changes in value of our foreign investments due to exchange rates.  Changes in the value of the forward foreign exchange contracts offset the changes in value of the foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates.  The change in fair market value of these forward foreign exchange contracts is deferred and reported within accumulated translation adjustments in shareholders  equity, net of tax.  At June 30, 2014, forward foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $6.5 billion were designated as hedges.In addition to forward foreign exchange contracts, we also designate non-derivative financial instruments as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries.  Those non-derivative financial instruments designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries were all long-term liabilities of BNY Mellon in various currencies, and, at June 30, 2014, had a combined U.S. dollar equivalent value of $551 million.Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was recorded in income as follows:IneffectivenessSix months ended(in millions)June 30, 2014June 30, 2013Fair value hedges of securities$(5.4)$7.8Fair value hedges of deposits and long-term debt(9.9)(0.5)Cash flow hedges(0.1)0.1Other (a)0.10.1Total$(15.3)$7.5(a)Includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges. 116 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The following table summarizes the notional amount and credit exposure of our total derivative portfolio at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013.(a)The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives designated as hedging instruments is recorded as other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on the balance sheet.(b)The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives not designated as hedging instruments is recorded as trading assets and trading liabilities, respectively, on the balance sheet.(c)Fair values are on a gross basis, before consideration of master netting agreements, as required by ASC 815.(d)Effect of master netting agreements includes cash collateral received and paid of $990 million and $472 million, respectively, at June 30, 2014, and $1,841 million and $456 million, respectively, at Dec. 31, 2013.At June 30, 2014, $559 billion (notional) of interest rate contracts will mature within one year, $143 billion between one and five years, and $139 billion after five years.  At June 30, 2014, $514 billion (notional) of foreign exchange contracts will mature within one year, $9 billion between one and five years, and $8 billion after five years.Impact of derivative instruments on the income statement(in millions)   Derivatives in fair value hedging relationshipsLocation of gain or(loss) recognized in income on derivatives Gain or (loss) recognizedin income on derivatives Location of gain or(loss) recognized in income on hedged item Gain or (loss) recognized in hedged item2Q14 1Q14 2Q13 2Q14 1Q14 2Q13Interest rate contractsNet interest revenue $(109) $(285) $169 Net interest revenue $102 $277 $(167)Derivatives in cash flow hedgingrelationshipsGain or (loss) recognized in accumulated OCI on derivatives (effective portion) Location of gain or(loss) reclassifiedfrom accumulatedOCI into income(effective portion) Gain or (loss) reclassified from accumulated OCI into income (effective portion) Location of gain or(loss) recognized inincome on derivatives(ineffective portion andamount excluded fromeffectiveness testing) Gain or (loss) recognized in income on derivatives (ineffectiveness portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)2Q141Q142Q13  2Q141Q142Q13  2Q141Q142Q13FX contracts$(1)$(1)$(15) Net interest revenue $ $(1)$(6) Net interest revenue $ $ $ FX contracts 3(1) Other revenue 1   Other revenue (0.2)0.1 FX contracts(6)334 Trading revenue (6)334 Trading revenue    FX contracts31(5) Salary expense 42(1) Salary expense    Total$(4)$6$13   $(1)$4$27   $(0.2)$0.1$ BNY Mellon 117 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Derivatives in netinvestment hedgingrelationshipsGain or (loss) recognized in accumulated OCI on derivatives(effective portion) Location of gain or(loss) reclassifiedfrom accumulatedOCI into income(effective portion) Gain or (loss) reclassifiedfrom accumulatedOCI into income(effective portion) Location of gain or(loss) recognized inincome on derivatives(ineffective portion andamount excluded fromeffectiveness testing) Gain or (loss) recognized in income onderivatives (ineffectiveness portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)2Q141Q142Q13  2Q141Q142Q13  2Q141Q142Q13FX contracts$(129)$(16)$38 Net interest revenue $(1)$ $  Other revenue $0.2$(0.1)$0.2Impact of derivative instruments on the income statement(in millions)   Derivatives in fair value hedging relationshipsLocation of gain or(loss) recognized in income on derivatives Gain or (loss) recognized in income on derivatives Six months ended Location of gain or(loss) recognized in income on hedged item Gain or (loss) recognized in hedged item Six months endedJune 30, 2014 June 30, 2013 June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013Interest rate contractsNet interest revenue $(394) $245 Net interest revenue $379 $(237)Derivatives in cash flow hedgingrelationshipsGain or (loss) recognizedin accumulatedOCI on derivatives(effective portion)Six months ended Location of gain or(loss) reclassifiedfrom accumulatedOCI into income(effective portion) Gain or (loss) reclassifiedfrom accumulatedOCI into income(effective portion) Six months ended Location of gain or(loss) recognized inincome on derivatives(ineffective portion andamount excluded fromeffectiveness testing) Gain or (loss) recognized in income on derivatives (ineffectiveness portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)Six months endedJune 30, 2014 June 30, 2013  June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013  June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013FX contracts$(2) $(27) Net interest revenue $(1) $(19) Net interest revenue $  $ FX contracts3 1 Other revenue 1   Other revenue (0.1) 0.1FX contracts(3) 217 Trading revenue (3) 217 Trading revenue    FX contracts4 (7) Salary expense 6 (1) Salary expense    Total$2 $184   $3 $197   $(0.1) $0.1Derivatives in netinvestment hedgingrelationshipsGain or (loss) recognized in accumulated OCI on derivatives(effective portion)Six months ended Location of gain or(loss) reclassifiedfrom accumulatedOCI into income(effective portion) Gain or (loss) reclassifiedfrom accumulatedOCI into income(effective portion)Six months ended Location of gain or(loss) recognized inincome on derivative(ineffective portion andamount excluded fromeffectiveness testing) Gain or (loss) recognized in income onderivatives (ineffectiveness portion and amount excluded fromeffectiveness testing)Six months endedJune 30, 2014 June 30, 2013  June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013  June 30, 2014 June 30, 2013FX contracts$(145) $205 Net interest revenue $(1) $  Other revenue $0.1 $0.1Trading activities (including trading derivatives)We manage trading risk through a system of position limits, a VaR methodology based on Monte Carlo simulations, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures.  Risk is monitored and reported to senior management by a separate unit on a daily basis.  Based on certain assumptions, the VaR methodology is designed to capture the potential overnight pre-tax dollar loss from adverse changes in fair values of all trading positions.  The calculation assumes a one-day holding period for most instruments, utilizes a 99% confidence level, and  incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options.  The VaR model is one of several statistical models used to develop economic capital results, which is allocated to lines of business for computing risk-adjusted performance.As the VaR methodology does not evaluate risk attributable to extraordinary financial, economic or other occurrences, the risk assessment process includes a number of stress scenarios based upon the risk factors in the portfolio and management s assessment of market conditions.  Additional stress scenarios based upon historical market events are also  118 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) performed.  Stress tests, by their design, incorporate the impact of reduced liquidity and the breakdown of observed correlations.  The results of these stress tests are reviewed weekly with senior management.Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading included the following:Foreign exchange includes income from purchasing and selling foreign currencies and currency forwards, futures and options.  Fixed income reflects results from futures and forward contracts, interest rate swaps, structured foreign currency swaps, options, and fixed income securities.  Equity/other primarily includes revenue from equity securities and equity derivatives.Counterparty credit risk and collateralWe assess credit risk of our counterparties through regular examination of their financial statements, confidential communication with the management of those counterparties and regular monitoring of publicly available credit rating information.  This and other information is used to develop proprietary credit rating metrics used to assess credit quality. Collateral requirements are determined after a comprehensive review of the credit quality of each counterparty.  Collateral is generally held or pledged in the form of cash or highly liquid government securities.  Collateral requirements are monitored and adjusted daily.Additional disclosures concerning derivative financial instruments are provided in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Disclosure of contingent features in over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative instrumentsCertain OTC derivative contracts and/or collateral agreements of The Bank of New York Mellon, our largest banking subsidiary and the subsidiary through which BNY Mellon enters into the substantial majority of all of its OTC derivative contracts and/or collateral agreements, contain provisions that may require us to take certain actions if The Bank of New York Mellon s public debt rating fell to a certain level.  Early termination provisions, or  close-out  agreements, in those contracts could trigger immediate payment of outstanding contracts that are in net liability positions.  Certain collateral agreements would require The Bank of New York Mellon to immediately post additional collateral to cover some or all of The Bank of New York Mellon s liabilities to a counterparty. The following table shows the fair value of contracts falling under early termination provisions that were in net liability positions as of June 30, 2014 for three key ratings triggers:If The Bank of New York Mellon s rating was changed to (Moody s/S&P)Potential close-out exposures (fair value) (a) A3/A- $41 millionBaa2/BBB $801 millionBa1/BB+ $2,044 million(a)The amounts represent potential total close-out values if The Bank of New York Mellon s rating were to immediately drop to the indicated levels.The aggregated fair value of contracts impacting potential trade close-out amounts and collateral obligations can fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to changes in market conditions, changes in the composition of counterparty trades, new business, or changes to the agreement definitions establishing close-out or collateral obligations. Additionally, if The Bank of New York Mellon s debt rating had fallen below investment grade on June 30, 2014, existing collateral arrangements would have required us to have posted an additional $403 million of collateral. BNY Mellon 119 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Offsetting assets and liabilitiesThe following tables present derivative instruments and financial instruments that are either subject to an  enforceable netting agreement or offset by collateral arrangements.  There were no derivative instruments or financial instruments subject to a netting agreement for which we are not currently netting.(a)Includes the effect of netting agreements and net cash collateral paid.  The offset related to the over-the-counter derivatives was allocated to the various types of derivatives based on the net positions.(b)Offsetting of reverse repurchase agreements relates to our involvement in the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, where we settle government securities transactions on a net basis for payment and delivery through the Fedwire system.(a)Includes the effect of netting agreements and net cash collateral paid.  The offset related to the over-the-counter derivatives was allocated to the various types of derivatives based on the net positions.(b)Offsetting of reverse repurchase agreements relates to our involvement in the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, where we settle government securities transactions on a net basis for payment and delivery through the Fedwire system. 120 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)Includes the effect of netting agreements and net cash collateral received.  The offset related to the over-the-counter derivatives was allocated to the various types of derivatives based on the net positions.(b)Offsetting of repurchase agreements relates to our involvement in the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, where we settle government securities transactions on a net basis for payment and delivery through the Fedwire system.(a)Includes the effect of netting agreements and net cash collateral received.  The offset related to the over-the-counter derivatives was allocated to the various types of derivatives based on the net positions.(b)Offsetting of repurchase agreements relates to our involvement in the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, where we settle government securities transactions on a net basis for payment and delivery through the Fedwire system.Note 18 - Commitments and contingent liabilitiesIn the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding that are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Our significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are securities, foreign currency and interest rate risk management products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit and securities lending indemnifications.  We assume these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide customers with the ability to meet credit and liquidity needs and to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks.  These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, BNY Mellon 121 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) foreign currency and interest rate risk not recognized in the balance sheet.  Our off-balance sheet risks are managed and monitored in manners similar to those used for on-balance sheet risks.  Significant industry concentrations related to credit exposure at June 30, 2014 are disclosed in the financial institutions portfolio exposure table and the commercial portfolio exposure table below.   Major concentrations in securities lending are primarily to broker-dealers and are generally collateralized with cash.  Securities lending transactions are discussed below.The following table presents a summary of our off-balance sheet credit risks, net of participations.(a)Net of participations totaling $6 million at June 30, 2014 and $6 million at Dec. 31, 2013.(c)Excludes the indemnification for securities for which BNY Mellon acts as an agent on behalf of CIBC Mellon clients, which totaled $63 billion at June 30, 2014 and $60 billion at Dec. 31, 2013. Included in lending commitments are facilities that provide liquidity for variable rate tax-exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers.  The credit approval for these facilities is based on an assessment of the underlying tax-exempt issuer and considers factors other than the financial strength of the monoline insurer.The total potential loss on undrawn lending commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral.Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements.  A summary of lending commitment maturities is as follows: $9.3 billion in less than one year, $24.1 billion in one to five years and $0.4 billion over five years.Standby letters of credit ( SBLC ) principally support corporate obligations.  As shown in the off-balance sheet credit risks table, the maximum potential exposure of SBLCs was $6.1 billion at June 30, 2014 and $6.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2013, and includes $472 million and $418 million that were collateralized with cash and securities at June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, respectively.  At June 30, 2014, $3.4 billion of the SBLCs will expire within one year and $2.7 billion in one to five years.We must recognize, at the inception of standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.  As required by ASC 460 Guarantees, the fair value of the liability, which was recorded with a corresponding asset in other assets, was estimated as the present value of contractual customer fees.The estimated liability for losses related to these commitments and SBLCs, if any, is included in the allowance for lending-related commitments.  The allowance for lending-related commitments was $124 million at June 30, 2014 and $134 million at Dec. 31, 2013.Payment/performance risk of SBLCs is monitored using both historical performance and internal ratings criteria.  BNY Mellon s historical experience is that SBLCs typically expire without being funded.   122 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) SBLCs below investment grade are monitored closely for payment/performance risk.  The table below shows SBLCs by investment grade:A commercial letter of credit is normally a short-term instrument used to finance a commercial contract for the shipment of goods from a seller to a buyer.  Although the commercial letter of credit is contingent upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, it represents a credit exposure if the buyer defaults on the underlying transaction.  As a result, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.  Commercial letters of credit totaled $241 million at June 30, 2014 compared with $310 million at Dec. 31, 2013.A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security (typically through an agent, in our case, The Bank of New York Mellon), to a borrower, usually a broker-dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which normally matures in less than 90 days. We typically lend securities with indemnification against borrower default.  We generally require the borrower to provide collateral with a minimum value of 102% of the fair value of the securities borrowed, which is monitored on a daily basis, thus reducing credit risk.  Market risk can also arise in securities lending transactions.  These risks are controlled through policies limiting the level of risk that can be undertaken.  Securities lending transactions are generally entered into only with highly-rated counterparties.  Securities lending indemnifications were secured by collateral of $306 billion at June 30, 2014 and $252 billion at Dec. 31, 2013.CIBC Mellon, a joint venture between BNY Mellon and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ( CIBC ), engages in securities lending activities.  CIBC Mellon, BNY Mellon, and CIBC jointly and severally indemnify securities lenders against specific types of borrower default.  At June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, $63 billion and $60 billion, respectively, of borrowings at CIBC Mellon for which BNY Mellon  acts as agent on behalf of CIBC Mellon clients, were secured by collateral of $66 billion and $64 billion, respectively.  If, upon a default, a borrower s collateral was not sufficient to cover its related obligations, certain losses related to the indemnification could be covered by the indemnitors.We expect many of these guarantees to expire without the need to advance any cash.  The revenue associated with guarantees frequently depends on the credit rating of the obligor and the structure of the transaction, including collateral, if any.Operating leasesOn June 25, 2014, BNY Mellon entered into a lease agreement for approximately 350,000 square feet of office space located at Brookfield Place, 225 Liberty Street, New York, New York.  The term of the lease is 20 years from the lease commencement, which is expected to begin on or about Jan. 1, 2015.  A summary of the future minimum rental commitments under this operating lease is as follows: 2015 - $3 million; 2016 - $19 million; 2017 - $19 million; 2018 - $19 million; 2019 - $19 million; and 2020 and thereafter - $313 million.Exposure for certain administrative errorsIn connection with certain offshore tax-exempt funds that we manage, we may be liable to the funds for certain administrative errors.  The errors relate to the resident status of such funds, potentially exposing the Company to a tax liability related to the funds  earnings.  The Company is in discussions with tax authorities regarding the funds.  With the charge recorded in the second quarter of 2014 for this matter, we believe we are appropriately accrued and the additional reasonably possible exposure is not significant.Indemnification arrangementsWe have provided standard representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing financial services that are not otherwise included above.  Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of these risks.  Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in these indemnifications and the BNY Mellon 123 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) contingencies triggering the obligation for indemnification are not expected to occur.  Furthermore, often counterparties to these transactions provide us with comparable indemnifications.  We are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these indemnifications for several reasons.  In addition to the lack of a stated or notional amount in a majority of such indemnifications, we are unable to predict the nature of events that would trigger indemnification or the level of indemnification for a certain event.  We believe, however, that the possibility that we will have to make any material payments for these indemnifications is remote.  At June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, we have not recorded any material liabilities under these arrangements.Clearing and settlement exchangesWe are a minority equity investor in, and/or member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities, derivatives or other transactions settle.  Certain of these industry clearing and settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other members do not honor their obligations.  We believe the likelihood that a clearing or settlement exchange (of which we are a member) would become insolvent is remote.  Additionally, certain settlement exchanges have implemented loss allocation policies that enable the exchange to allocate settlement losses to the members of the exchange.  It is not possible to quantify such mark-to-market loss until the loss occurs.  In addition, any ancillary costs that occur as a result of any mark-to-market loss cannot be quantified.  At June 30, 2014 and Dec. 31, 2013, we have not recorded any material liabilities under these arrangements.Legal proceedingsIn the ordinary course of business, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are routinely named as defendants in or made parties to pending and potential legal actions and regulatory matters.  Claims for significant monetary damages are often asserted in many of these legal actions, while claims for disgorgement, penalties and/or other remedial sanctions may be sought in regulatory matters.  It is inherently difficult to predict the eventual outcomes of such matters given their complexity and the particular facts and circumstances at issue in each of these matters.   However, on the basis of our current knowledge and understanding, we do not believe that judgments or settlements, if any, arising from these matters (either individually or in the aggregate, after giving effect to applicable reserves and insurance coverage) will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of BNY Mellon, although they could have a material effect on net income in a given period.In view of the inherent unpredictability of outcomes in litigation and regulatory matters, particularly where (i) the damages sought are substantial or indeterminate, (ii) the proceedings are in the early stages, or (iii) the matters involve novel legal theories or a large number of parties, as a matter of course there is considerable uncertainty surrounding the timing or ultimate resolution of litigation and regulatory matters, including a possible eventual loss, fine, penalty or business impact, if any, associated with each such matter.  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, BNY Mellon establishes accruals for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters proceed to a stage where they present loss contingencies that are both probable and reasonably estimable.  In such cases, there may be a possible exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued.  BNY Mellon will continue to monitor such matters for developments that could affect the amount of the accrual, and will adjust the accrual amount as appropriate.  If the loss contingency in question is not both probable and reasonably estimable, BNY Mellon does not establish an accrual and the matter will continue to be monitored for any developments that would make the loss contingency both probable and reasonably estimable.  BNY Mellon believes that its accruals for legal proceedings are appropriate and, in the aggregate, are not material to the consolidated financial position of BNY Mellon, although future accruals could have a material effect on net income in a given period.For certain of those matters described herein for which a loss contingency may, in the future, be reasonably possible (whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability), BNY Mellon is currently unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss.  For those matters where BNY Mellon is able to estimate a reasonably possible loss, the aggregate range of such reasonably possible loss is up to $850 million in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters. 124 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) The following describes certain judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings involving BNY Mellon:Sentinel MattersAs previously disclosed, on Jan. 18, 2008, The Bank of New York Mellon filed a proof of claim in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ) pending in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois, seeking to recover approximately $312 million loaned to Sentinel and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at The Bank of New York Mellon.  On March 3, 2008, the bankruptcy trustee filed an adversary complaint against The Bank of New York Mellon seeking to disallow The Bank of New York Mellon s claim and seeking damages for allegedly aiding and abetting Sentinel insiders in misappropriating customer assets and improperly using those assets as collateral for the loan.  In a decision dated Nov. 3, 2010, the court found for The Bank of New York Mellon and against the bankruptcy trustee, holding that The Bank of New York Mellon s loan to Sentinel is valid, fully secured and not subject to equitable subordination.  The bankruptcy trustee appealed this decision, and on Aug. 9, 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit issued a decision affirming the trial court s judgment.  On Sept. 7, 2012, the bankruptcy trustee filed a petition for rehearing on the fraudulent transfer portion of the opinion and, on Nov. 30, 2012, the Court of Appeals withdrew its opinion and vacated its judgment.  On Aug. 26, 2013, the Court of Appeals reversed its own prior decision and the district court s decision with respect to the bankruptcy trustee s fraudulent transfer and equitable subordination claims and remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings.  See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.As previously disclosed, in November 2009, the Division of Enforcement of the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) indicated that it is considering a recommendation to the CFTC that it file a civil enforcement action against The Bank of New York Mellon for possible violations of the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations in connection with its relationship to Sentinel.  The Bank of New York Mellon responded in writing to the CFTC on Jan. 29, 2010 and provided an explanation as to why an enforcement action is unwarranted. Securities Lending MattersAs previously disclosed, BNY Mellon or its affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits initiated by participants in BNY Mellon s securities lending program, which is a part of BNY Mellon s Investment Services business.  The lawsuits were filed on various dates from 2009 to 2013, and are currently pending in courts in North Carolina and Illinois.  The complaints assert contractual, statutory, and common law claims, including claims for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. The plaintiffs allege losses in connection with the investment of securities lending collateral in Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., and seek damages as to those losses.Foreign Exchange MattersAs previously disclosed, beginning in December 2009, government authorities have been conducting inquiries seeking information relating primarily to standing instruction foreign exchange transactions in connection with custody services BNY Mellon provides to public pension plans and certain other custody clients.  BNY Mellon is cooperating with these inquiries. In addition, on Oct. 4, 2011, the New York Attorney General s Office, the New York City Comptroller and various city pension and benefit funds filed a lawsuit asserting, claims under the Martin Act and state and city false claims acts. On Aug. 5, 2013, the court dismissed the false claims act claims, and certain plaintiffs have since filed a notice of appeal.  Also, on Oct. 4, 2011, the United States Department of Justice ( DOJ ) filed a civil lawsuit seeking civil penalties under 12 U.S.C. Section 1833a and injunctive relief under 18 U.S.C. Section 1345 based on alleged ongoing violations of 18 U.S.C. Sections 1341 and 1343 (mail and wire fraud).  On Jan. 17, 2012, the court approved a partial settlement resolving the DOJ s claim for injunctive relief.  In October 2011, several public pension funds in the state of California purported to intervene in a qui tam lawsuit that was removed to federal district court in California.  On March 30, 2012, the court dismissed certain of plaintiffs  claims, including all claims under the California False Claims Act.  Certain plaintiffs refiled their claims and, on May 1, 2014, the court again dismissed the California False Claims Act claims, along with certain other claims.  Plaintiffs have sought leave to file an amended complaint that would reassert some of those claims. BNY Mellon 125 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) BNY Mellon has also been named as a defendant in several putative class action federal lawsuits filed on various dates in 2011 and 2012.  The complaints, which assert claims including breach of contract and ERISA and securities laws violations, all allege that the prices BNY Mellon charged for standing instruction foreign exchange transactions executed in connection with custody services provided by BNY Mellon were improper.  In addition, BNY Mellon has been named as a nominal defendant in several derivative lawsuits filed in 2011 and 2012 in state and federal court in New York. On July 2, 2013, the court in the consolidated federal derivative action dismissed all of plaintiffs  claims.  On Oct. 1, 2013, the court in the consolidated state derivative action dismissed all of plaintiffs  claims, and one of the plaintiffs has appealed.  BNY Mellon was also named in a qui tam lawsuit filed on May 22, 2012 in Massachusetts state court, but the court dismissed all of plaintiff s claims on Sept. 10, 2013.  All of the pending lawsuits are currently in discovery.  To the extent the lawsuits are pending in federal court, they are being coordinated for pre-trial purposes in federal court in New York.Tax LitigationAs previously disclosed, on Aug. 17, 2009, BNY Mellon received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency disallowing tax benefits for the 2001 and 2002 tax years in connection with a 2001 transaction that involved the payment of UK corporate income taxes that were credited against BNY Mellon s U.S. corporate income tax liability.  On Nov. 10, 2009, BNY Mellon filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court contesting the disallowance of the benefits.  Following a trial, the Tax Court upheld the IRS s Notice of Deficiency and disallowed BNY Mellon s tax credits and associated transaction costs on Feb. 11, 2013.  On Sept. 23, 2013, the Tax Court issued a supplemental opinion, partially reducing the tax implications to BNY Mellon of its earlier decision.  The Tax Court entered a decision formally implementing its prior rulings on Feb. 20, 2014.  BNY Mellon appealed the decision to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals on March 5, 2014.  See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Mortgage-Securitization Trusts ProceedingsAs previously disclosed, The Bank of New York Mellon as trustee is the petitioner in a legal proceeding filed in New York State Supreme Court, New York County on June 29, 2011, seeking approval  of a proposed settlement involving Bank of America Corporation and bondholders in certain Countrywide residential mortgage-securitization trusts.  The New York and Delaware Attorneys General have intervened in this proceeding.  The trial in this matter ended on Nov. 21, 2013.  On Jan. 31, 2014, the court issued its decision approving the settlement except to the extent that it releases loan modification claims.  The court approved all the other terms of the settlement.  On Feb. 21, 2014, The Bank of New York Mellon appealed the court s decision to exempt loan modification claims from the settlement approval and several objectors to the settlement cross-appealed.  The Bank of New York Mellon has also been named as a defendant in a lawsuit brought in New York State court on June 18, 2014 by a group of institutional investors.  This lawsuit is one of a number of legal actions brought by MBS investors alleging that the trustee has expansive duties under the governing agreements, including to investigate and pursue breach of representation and warranty claims against other parties to the MBS transactions.Matters Related to R. Allen StanfordIn late December 2005, Pershing LLC became a clearing firm for Stanford Group Co. ( SGC ), a  registered broker dealer that was part of a group of entities ultimately controlled by R. Allen Stanford.  Stanford International Bank ( SIB ), also controlled by Stanford, issued certificates of deposit ( CDs ).  Some investors allegedly wired funds from their SGC accounts to purchase CDs.  In 2009, the SEC charged Stanford with operating a Ponzi scheme in connection with the sale of CDs, and SGC was placed into receivership.  Alleged purchasers of CDs have four pending lawsuits against Pershing in Texas.  In addition, alleged purchasers have filed over thirty-five FINRA arbitration claims against Pershing in Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Tennessee,  Arkansas, North Carolina and Georgia.  The purchasers allege that Pershing, as SGC s clearing firm, assisted Stanford in a fraudulent scheme, and assert contractual, statutory and common law claims.UK Financial Conduct Authority MatterThe UK Financial Conduct Authority (the  FCA ) is conducting an investigation into compliance by BNY Mellon, London Branch and BNY Mellon (International) Limited (the  firms ) with the FCA s Client Assets Sourcebook, which sets out the regime in the UK for the protection of client interests.  The firms are in the process of responding to information requests from the FCA. 126 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 19 - Lines of businesses We have an internal information system that produces performance data along product and services lines for our two principal businesses and the Other segment.Business accounting principlesOur business data has been determined on an internal management basis of accounting, rather than the generally accepted accounting principles used for consolidated financial reporting.  These measurement principles are designed so that reported results of the businesses will track their economic performance.Business results are subject to reclassification when organizational changes are made or whenever improvements are made in the measurement  principles.  During the second quarter of 2014, minor reclassifications were made to our business results.  All prior periods have been restated.Results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 have been restated to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The accounting policies of the businesses are the same as those described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report.The primary types of revenue for our two principal businesses and the Other segment are presented below:BusinessPrimary types of revenueInvestment Management    Investment management and performance fees from:Mutual fundsInstitutional clientsPrivate clientsHigh-net-worth individuals and families, endowments and foundations and related entities    Distribution and servicing feesInvestment Services    Asset servicing fees, including institutional trust and custody fees, broker-dealer services, global collateral services and securities lending    Issuer services fees, including Corporate Trust and Depositary Receipts    Clearing services fees, including broker-dealer services, registered investment advisor services and prime brokerage services    Treasury services fees, including global payment services and working capital solutions    Foreign exchangeOther segment    Credit-related activities    Leasing operations    Corporate treasury activities    Global markets and institutional banking services    Business exitsThe results of our businesses are presented and analyzed on an internal management reporting basis: Revenue amounts reflect fee and other revenue generated by each business.  Fee and other revenue transferred between businesses under revenue transfer agreements is included within other revenue in each business. Revenues and expenses associated with specific client bases are included in those businesses.  For example, foreign exchange activity associated  with clients using custody products is allocated to Investment Services.  Net interest revenue is allocated to businesses based on the yields on the assets and liabilities generated by each business.  We employ a funds transfer pricing system that matches funds with the specific assets and liabilities of each business based on their interest sensitivity and maturity characteristics. Incentive expense related to restricted stock and certain corporate overhead charges are allocated to the businesses. BNY Mellon 127 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)  Support and other indirect expenses are allocated to businesses based on internally-developed methodologies.  Recurring FDIC expense is allocated to the businesses based on average deposits generated within each business. Litigation expense is generally recorded in the business in which the charge occurs. Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other segment.  As a result, gains and losses associated with the valuation of the securities portfolio are included in the Other segment. Client deposits serve as the primary funding source for our investment securities portfolio.  We typically allocate all interest revenue to the businesses generating the deposits.  Accordingly, accretion related to the portion of the investment  securities portfolio restructured in 2009 has been included in the results of the businesses.   M&I expense is a corporate level item and is recorded in the Other segment. Restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2014 relate to corporate-level initiatives and were therefore recorded in the Other segment.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, restructuring charges were recorded in the businesses.  Prior to the fourth quarter of 2013, restructuring charges were reported in the Other segment.  Balance sheet assets and liabilities and their related income or expense are specifically assigned to each business.  Businesses with a net liability position have been allocated assets. Goodwill and intangible assets are reflected within individual businesses. The following consolidating schedules show the contribution of our businesses to our overall profitability.(a)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $46 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $17 million, for a net impact of $29 million.  Income (loss) before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $17 million.(b)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.(a)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $36 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $20 million, for a net impact of $16 million.  Income before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $20 million.(b)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful. 128 BNY MellonNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) (a)Consolidated results and Other segment results have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $65 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $39 million, for a net impact of $26 million.  Income before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $39 million.(c)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.(a)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $82 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $37 million, for a net impact of $45 million.  Income (loss) before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $37 million.(b)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.(a)Consolidated results and Other segment results have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of adopting new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2014 related to our investments in qualified affordable housing projects (ASU 2014-01).  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.(b)Both total fee and other revenue and total revenue include income from consolidated investment management funds of $115 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $55 million, for a net impact of $60 million.  Income before taxes is net of noncontrolling interests of $55 million.(c)Income before taxes divided by total revenue.N/M - Not meaningful.BNY Mellon 129 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Note 20 - Supplemental information to the Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsNoncash investing and financing transactions that, appropriately, are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are listed below.Noncash investing and financing transactionsSix months ended June 30,(in millions)20142013Transfers from loans to other assets for other real estate owned ( OREO )$2$2Change in assets of consolidated VIEs84410Change in liabilities of consolidated VIEs1,00239Change in noncontrolling interests of consolidated VIEs12627  130 BNY MellonItem 4. Controls and Procedures Disclosure controls and proceduresOur management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation by the members of the Disclosure Committee, has responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our SEC reports is timely recorded, processed, summarized and reported and that information required to be disclosed by BNY Mellon is accumulated and communicated to BNY Mellon s management to allow timely decisions regarding the required disclosure.  In addition, our ethics hotline can also be used by employees and others for the anonymous communication of concerns about financial controls or reporting matters.  There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.  Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ).  Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.As previously disclosed, we reviewed our process for the reporting of information in our public filings and we have instituted ongoing enhancements to the data collection processes and systems relating to AUC/A and other information in our public filings. Changes in internal control over financial reportingIn the ordinary course of business, we may routinely modify, upgrade or enhance our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting.  There have not been any changes in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act during the second quarter of 2014 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.BNY Mellon 131 Forward-looking Statements Some statements in this document are forward-looking.  These include all statements about the usefulness of Non-GAAP measures, the future results of BNY Mellon and our long-term goals and strategies.  In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to expectations regarding: our capital ratios; the anticipated closing and impact of the sale of our One Wall Street office building and Western Fund Management Limited; the impact of the net maturities of high margin structured debt securitizations on our total annual revenue; our foreign exchange revenues and the impact of enhancements in our foreign exchange trading and execution capabilities; our plans to reduce our interbank placement assets and increase our securities portfolio inventory of high quality liquid assets and impact on net interest revenue; the rate of expense growth; elevated levels of legal and litigation costs; our effective tax rate; the impact of seasonality on our businesses; estimations of the impact of market value changes on our fee revenue and earnings per share; estimated new business wins in AUC/A; the impact of globalization and a changing regulatory environment on the demand for our products and services; our tri-party repo business; our appearance as the named plaintiff in legal actions brought by servicers in foreclosure and other related proceedings; the impact of the situation in Russia; Corporate Trust, including its global market leader position, winning new business and position to benefit from an increase in short-term interest rates; overdraft exposure with respect to Irish-domiciled investment funds; the impact of an update to our methodologies utilized in our probable loss model; the impact on our allowance for loan losses of changes in assigned credit ratings; assumptions with respect to residential mortgage-backed securities; the expected impact of actions on our investment securities portfolio in the event of a rise in interest rates; effects of changes in projected loss severities and default rates on impairment charges; the impact of significant changes in ratings classifications for our investment securities portfolio; goals with respect to our commercial portfolio; our credit strategies; our airline lease customers and our maintenance of a sizable allowance for loan losses; our goals with respect to our liquidity cushion, diversity of funding sources, liquidity ratios, a liquid asset buffer, and the levels and sources of wholesale funds; the potential uses of liquidity; the impact of a reduction in our Investment Services businesses; our liquidity policy; our access to capital markets and our shelf registration statements; the impact of a change in rating agencies  assumptions on ratings of the  Parent, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.; capital, including actions with regard to outstanding securities; our 2014 capital plan, including share repurchases; the effects of changes in risk-weighted assets/quarterly average assets or changes in common equity levels on capital ratios; the capitalization status of BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries; the effects of customer behavior and market volatility or stress on our balance sheet size and client deposit levels; our foreign exchange and other trading counterparty risk rating profile; our earnings simulation model; estimations and assumptions on net interest revenue and net interest rate sensitivities; impact of certain events on the growth or contraction of deposits, our assumptions about depositor behavior, our balance sheet and net interest revenue; the timing and effects of pending and proposed legislation, regulation and accounting standards, including:  resolution planning, capital planning and stress testing, money market fund reforms, supplementary leverage ratio, credit exposure limits, European initiatives concerning proprietary trading, EMIR and MiFIR, and recovery and resolution; the timing and effects of pending and proposed accounting standards, including: transfers and servicing: repurchase-to maturity transactions, repurchase financings and disclosures; revenue from contracts with customers, principal versus agent analysis; leases; financial instruments - credit losses; recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, IFRS; our anticipated actions with respect to legal or regulatory proceedings; future litigation costs; the expected outcome and the impact of judgments and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal or regulatory proceedings; and our expectations with respect to litigation accruals.In this report, any other report, any press release or any written or oral statement that BNY Mellon or its executives may make, words, such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   target,   expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   would,   may,   will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends  and words of similar meaning, may signify forward-looking statements.Forward-looking statements, including discussions and projections of future results of operations and discussions of future plans contained in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, are based on  132 BNY MellonForward-looking Statements (continued) management s current expectations and assumptions that involve risk and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon s control), including adverse changes in market conditions, and the timing of such changes, and the actions that management could take in response to these changes.  Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed in the  Risk Factors  section of our 2013 Annual Report, such as: government regulation and supervision, and recent legislative and regulatory developments; regulatory actions or litigation; adverse publicity with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally; continued litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings involving our foreign exchange standing instruction program; failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including capital adequacy rules; operational risk; failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures; disruption or breach in security of our information systems that results in a loss of confidential client information or impacts our ability to provide services to our clients; failure to update our technology; change or uncertainty in monetary, tax and other governmental policies; intense competition in all aspects of our business; the risks relating to new lines of business or new products and services, and the failure to grow our existing businesses; failure to attract and retain employees; political, economic, legal, operational and other risks inherent in operating globally; acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics and global conflicts; our strategic acquisitions, including our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and potential liabilities from legacy claims against the acquired businesses; ongoing concerns about the financial stability of several countries in Europe, the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe, or a breakup of the European Monetary Union; continuing uncertainty in financial markets and weakness in the economy generally; low or volatile interest rates; market volatility; further write-downs of financial instruments that we own and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions; our dependence on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and the potential adverse effects of a slowing in capital markets activity, weak financial markets or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences; the impact of a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity on our foreign  exchange revenues; any material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of certain of our subsidiaries; the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, and our assumption of credit and counterparty risk; credit, regulatory and reputation risks as a result of our tri-party repo agent services; the impact of not effectively managing our liquidity; inadequate reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves; tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions; changes in accounting standards; risks associated with being a holding company, including our dependence on dividends from our subsidiary banks; and the impact of provisions of Delaware law and the Federal Reserve on our ability to return capital to shareholders.  Investors should consider all risks in our 2013 Annual Report and any subsequent reports filed with the SEC by BNY Mellon pursuant to the Exchange Act.  All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  The contents of BNY Mellon s website or any other websites referenced herein are not part of this report. BNY Mellon 133 Part II - Other Information Item 1.  Legal ProceedingsThe information required by this Item is set forth in the  Legal proceedings  section in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portion is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds(c)The following table discloses repurchases of our common stock made in the second quarter of 2014.  All of the Company s preferred stock outstanding has preference over the Company s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends.Issuer purchases of equity securities(a)Includes 72 thousand shares repurchased at a purchase price of $2 million from employees, primarily in connection with the employees  payment of taxes upon the vesting of restricted stock.  The average price per share of open market purchases was $33.61.(b)Represents the maximum value of the shares authorized to be repurchased through the first quarter of 2015, including employee benefit plan repurchases, in connection with the Federal Reserve s non-objection to our 2014 capital plan.On March 26, 2014, in connection with the Federal Reserve s non-objection to our 2014 capital plan, the Board of Directors authorized a new stock purchase program providing for the repurchase of an aggregate  of $1.74 billion of common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2014 and continuing through the first quarter of 2015.Item 6.  ExhibitsPursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, BNY Mellon has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties.  These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in BNY Mellon s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors.  Accordingly, these representations and  warranties may not describe our actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.  The list of exhibits required to be filed as exhibits to this report appears on page 136 hereof, under  Index to Exhibits , which is incorporated herein by reference.   134 BNY MellonSIGNATUREPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION (Registrant)    Date: August 11, 2014By: /s/ John A. Park   John A. Park   Corporate Controller   (Duly Authorized Officer and   Principal Accounting Officer of   the Registrant)            BNY Mellon 135 Index to Exhibits Exhibit No. Description Method of Filing2.1 Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of Dec. 3, 2006, as amended and restated as of Feb. 23, 2007, and as further amended and restated as of March 30, 2007, between The Bank of New York Company, Inc., Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ). Previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File Nos. 000-52710) as filed with the Commission on July 2, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.2.2 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of Feb. 1, 2010, by and between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) as filed with the Commission on Feb. 3, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File Nos. 000-52710) as filed with the Commission on July 2, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.3.2 Certificate of Designations of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation with respect to Series A Noncumulative Preferred Stock dated June 15, 2007. Previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) as filed with the Commission on July 5, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.3.3 Certificate of Designations of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation with respect to Series C Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock dated Sept. 13, 2012. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Registration Statement on Form 8A12B (File No. 001-35651) as filed with the Commission on Sept. 14, 2012, and incorporated herein by reference.3.4 Certificate of Designations of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation with respect to the Series D Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, dated May 16, 2013. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-35651) as filed with the Commission on May 16, 2013, and incorporated herein by reference.3.5 Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as amended and restated on Oct. 8, 2013. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-35651) as filed with the Commission on Oct. 8, 2013, and incorporated herein by reference.4.1 None of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Parent or any of its subsidiaries represented long-term debt in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Company as of June 30, 2014.  The Company hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request, a copy of any such instrument. N/A 136 BNY MellonIndex to Exhibits (continued) Exhibit No. Description Method of Filing10.1 Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between The Bank of New York Mellon and MIP One Wall Street Acquisition LLC, dated May 20, 2014. Previously Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-35651) as filed with the Commission on May 27, 2014.10.2 Lease agreement by and between The Bank of New York Mellon and WFP Tower Co. L.P., dated June 25, 2014. Filed herewith.10.3*Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. Filed herewith.10.4*Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement. Filed herewith.12.1 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends. Filed herewith.31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed herewith.31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed herewith.32.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Furnished herewith.32.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Furnished herewith.101.INS XBRL Instance Document. Filed herewith.101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. Filed herewith.101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. Filed herewith.101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. Filed herewith.101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. Filed herewith.101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. Filed herewith.*  Management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.BNY Mellon 137    