<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10k2002.txt
<TEXT>

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                        ________________________________

                                    FORM 10-K
                        ________________________________

              [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2002

                             COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
                                     0-26038

                                   RESMED INC
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)

                                    DELAWARE
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

                                   98-0152841
                        (IRS Employer Identification No.)

                             14040 DANIELSON STREET
                              POWAY, CA  92064-6857
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (858) 746-2400
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                              TITLE OF EACH CLASS:
                          Common Stock, $.004 Par Value
                       Rights to Purchase Series A Junior
                          Participating Preferred Stock

                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE UPON WHICH REGISTERED:
                             New York Stock Exchange

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12  months  (or  for such shorter period that the registrant was
required  to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to filing requirements
for  the  past  90  days.     Yes  [  X  ]     No  [     ]

Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulations S-K (S 229.405 of this Chapter) is not contained herein and will
not  be  contained to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or
any  amendment  to  this  Form  10-K  [     ].

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held by non-affiliates of
registrant  as  of  September 6, 2002, computed by reference to the closing sale
price  of  such  stock  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange,  was  approximately
$834,476,000.  (All  directors,  executive  officers, and  10%  stockholders of
Registrant  are  considered  affiliates.)

At  September  6,  2002, registrant had 32,912,599 shares of Common Stock, $.004
par  value, issued and outstanding.  This number excludes 360,347 shares held by
the  registrant  as  treasury  shares.

Portions  of  registrant's  definitive Proxy Statement for its November 11, 2002
meeting  of  stockholders  are  incorporated  by reference into Part III of this
report.

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                             RESMED INC
                                       ______________________

                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                        ______________________


<S>       <C>      <C>                                                                          <C>
                                                                                                PAGE

Part I    Item 1   Business                                                                        3

          Item 2   Properties                                                                     17

          Item 3   Legal Proceedings                                                              17

          Item 4   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                            18


Part II   Item 5   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters          18

          Item 6   Selected Financial Data                                                        20

          Item 7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and                21
                   Results of Financial Operation

          Item 7A  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market and Business Risks       29

          Item 8   Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                       37

          Item 9   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and                38
                   Financial Disclosure


Part III  Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                             38

          Item 11  Executive Compensation                                                         38

          Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management                 39

          Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                                 39


Part IV   Item 14  Exhibits, Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on Form 8-K    39

</TABLE>



Sullivan,  VPAP,  AutoSet,  Bubble  Mask,  Bubble  Cushion,  SmartStart, ResCap,
Mirage,  HumidAire,  Aero-Click,  minni  Max nCPAP, Moritz II biLEVEL, Aero-Fix,
Twister  remove,  SELFSET,  MESAMIV;  Poly-MESAM,  MEPAL,  Auto  VPAP, AutoScan,
AutoSet  CS,  AutoSet T, AutoView, IPAP MAX, ResControl, SCAN, S6, Ultra Mirage,
VPAP  MAX,  AutoSet.com,  AutoSet-CS.com,  and  ResMed  are  our  trademarks.

As  used  in  this 10-K, the terms "we," "us," and "our" refer to ResMed Inc., a
Delaware  corporation,  and  its  subsidiaries,  on a consolidated basis, unless
otherwise  stated.

                                   -2-
<PAGE>


                                     PART I
ITEM  1     BUSINESS

GENERAL

We  are  a  leading developer, manufacturer and distributor of medical equipment
for  treating, diagnosing, and managing sleep disordered breathing, or SDB.  SDB
includes  obstructive  sleep apnea, or OSA, and other respiratory disorders that
occur  during  sleep.  When  we  were formed in 1989, our primary purpose was to
commercialize  a  treatment for OSA developed by Professor Colin Sullivan of the
University  of  Sydney, the current Chairman of our Medical Advisory Board. This
treatment,  nasal  Continuous  Positive  Airway Pressure, or CPAP, was the first
successful  noninvasive treatment for OSA. CPAP systems deliver pressurized air,
typically  through  a nasal mask, to prevent collapse of the upper airway during
sleep.

Since  the  development  of nasal CPAP, we have developed a number of innovative
products  for SDB, including flow generators, diagnostic products, mask systems,
headgear  and  other  accessories.  Our  growth  has  been fuelled by geographic
expansion,  increased  awareness  of  SDB  as a significant health concern among
physicians  and  patients,  and  our  research  and  product development effort.

We  employ approximately 1,250 people and sell our products in over 60 countries
through a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and independent distributors.


CORPORATE  HISTORY

ResMed  Inc.,  a  Delaware corporation, was formed in March 1994 as the ultimate
holding  company  for  our  domestic,  Australian  and  European  operating
subsidiaries.  On  June  1,  1995,  we  completed  an initial public offering of
common  stock  and  on  June  2,  1995 our common stock commenced trading on The
NASDAQ  National  Market.  On  September  30,  1999 we transferred our principal
public  listing  to the New York Stock Exchange, trading under the ticker symbol
RMD.  On November 25, 1999, we established a secondary listing of our shares via
Chess  Depositary  Instruments,  or CDIs, on the Australian Stock Exchange, also
under  the  symbol  RMD.  Ten  CDIs on the ASX represent one share of our common
stock  on the NYSE.  On July 1, 2002, we converted our ASX listing status from a
foreign  exempt  listing  to  a  full  listing.

Our  Australian subsidiary, ResMed Holdings Limited, was originally organized in
1989 by Dr. Peter Farrell to acquire from Baxter Center for Medical Research Pty
Limited,  or Baxter, the rights to certain technology relating to CPAP treatment
as well as Baxter's existing CPAP device business.  Baxter had sold CPAP devices
in  Australia  since  1988, having acquired the rights to the technology in 1987
from  Dr.  Colin  Sullivan.

Since  formation  we  have  acquired  a number of operating businesses with both
Labhardt Ag and Servo Magnetics Inc acquired during fiscal 2002, on November 15,
2001  and  May  14,  2002 respectively.  Previously we have acquired MAP Medizin
Technologie GmbH, Dieter W. Priess Medtechnik, Premium Medical SARL, Innovmedics
Pte  Ltd  and  EINAR  Egnell  AB,  our  German,  French, Singaporean and Swedish
distributors, on February 16, 2001, February 7, 1996, June 12, 1996, November 1,
1997 and January 31, 2000, respectively.  During the 1999 fiscal year we made an
equity  investment  in  Flaga  hf,  based  in  Iceland.  We  now  market Flaga's
polysomnographic  products  under  the  Embla  and  Embletta label in the United
States  and  selected  other  markets.

                                   -3-
<PAGE>


THE  MARKET

Sleep is a complex neurological process that includes two distinct states: rapid
eye  movement,  or REM, sleep and non-rapid eye movement, or non-REM, sleep. REM
sleep,  which  is  about  20-25%  of  total  sleep  experienced  by  adults,  is
characterized  by  a high level of brain activity, bursts of rapid eye movement,
increased  heart  and  respiration rates, and paralysis of many muscles. Non-REM
sleep  is subdivided into four stages that generally parallel sleep depth; stage
1  is  the  lightest  and  stage  4  is  the  deepest.

The  upper airway has no rigid support and is held open by active contraction of
upper  airway  muscles.  Normally, during REM sleep and deeper levels of non-REM
sleep,  upper  airway  muscles  relax  and  the airway narrows. Individuals with
narrow upper airways or poor muscle tone are prone to temporary collapses of the
upper  airway during sleep, or apneas, or near closures of the upper airways, or
hypopneas.  These  breathing irregularities result in a lowering of blood oxygen
concentration, causing the central nervous system to react to the lack of oxygen
or  increased  carbon  dioxide and signaling the body to respond. Typically, the
individual  subconsciously  arouses  from  sleep,  causing the throat muscles to
contract,  opening  the airway. After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen levels
increase  and  the  individual can resume a deeper sleep until the cycle repeats
itself.  Sufferers of OSA typically experience ten or more such cycles per hour.
While  these  awakenings  greatly impair the quality of sleep, the individual is
not  normally  aware  of  these  disruptions.

In its "Wake Up America'' report to Congress in 1993, the National Commission on
Sleep  Disorders Research estimated that approximately 40 million individuals in
the  United  States suffer from chronic disorders of sleep and wakefulness, such
as  sleep  apnea, insomnia and narcolepsy. According to this report, sleep apnea
is  the  most  common  sleep  disorder,  affecting  approximately  20  million
individuals  in the United States.  Despite the high prevalence of OSA, there is
a  general  lack  of  awareness  of OSA among both the medical community and the
general  public.  It  is  estimated that less than 10% of those afflicted by OSA
know the cause of their fatigue or other symptoms. Health care professionals are
often  unable  to  diagnose  OSA because they are unaware that such non-specific
symptoms  as  fatigue,  snoring  and  irritability  are  characteristic  of OSA.

While  OSA  has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population, it is
predominant  among  middle-aged  men  and  those  who  are obese, smoke, consume
alcohol  in  excess or use muscle-relaxing drugs.  In addition, patients who are
being  treated for certain other conditions, including those undergoing dialysis
treatment  or  suffering  from diabetes, may have an increased incidence of OSA.
Recent  studies  have  also  shown that SDB is associated with hypertension, the
leading  risk  factor  for the development of stroke and heart disease, and that
over 50% of post stroke patients and patients with congestive heart failure have
SDB.


SLEEP  DISORDERED  BREATHING  AND  OBSTRUCTIVE  SLEEP  APNEA

Sleep disordered breathing, or SDB, encompasses all physiological processes that
cause  detrimental breathing patterns during sleep.  Manifestations include OSA,
central  sleep  apnea,  or  CSA, and hypoventilation syndromes that occur during
sleep.  Hypoventilation syndromes are generally associated with obesity, chronic
obstructive  lung  disease,  neuromuscular  disease  and upper airway resistance
changes.  OSA  is  the  most  common  form  of  SDB.

Sleep fragmentation and the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by OSA can
lead  to  excessive  daytime  sleepiness,  reduced cognitive function, including
memory  loss  and  lack  of  concentration,  depression  and  irritability.  OSA
sufferers  also  may  experience  an  increase in heart rate and an elevation of

                                   -4-
<PAGE>

blood  pressure  during  the cycle of apneas.  Several studies indicate that the
oxygen  desaturation, increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure caused by
OSA  may  be  associated  with  increased  risk  of cardiovascular morbidity and
mortality  due  to  angina, stroke and heart attack. Patients with OSA have been
shown  to  have impaired daytime performance in a variety of cognitive functions
including  problem  solving,  response  speed and visual motor coordination, and
studies  have  linked  OSA  to  increased  occurrences  of traffic and workplace
accidents.

Generally,  an  individual seeking treatment for the symptoms of OSA is referred
by  a general practitioner to a specialist for further evaluation. The diagnosis
of  OSA typically requires monitoring the patient during sleep at either a sleep
clinic  or the patient's home.  During overnight testing, respiratory parameters
and sleep patterns are monitored along with other vital signs such as heart rate
and  blood oxygen levels. These tests allow sleep clinicians to detect any sleep
disturbances  such as apneas, hypopneas or subconscious awakenings.  We estimate
that  there  are currently more than 2,000 sleep clinics in the United States, a
substantial portion of which are affiliated with hospitals.  The number of sleep
clinics  has  expanded  significantly  from approximately 100 such facilities in
1985.


EXISTING  THERAPIES

Prior  to  1981,  the  primary  treatment  for OSA was a tracheotomy, a surgical
procedure  to  cut  a  hole  in  the  patient's windpipe to create a channel for
airflow.  Most  recently,  surgery has involved either uvulopalatopharyngoplasty
('UPPP'),  in  which  surgery  is performed on the upper airway to remove excess
tissue  and to streamline the shape of the airway, or mandibular advancement, in
which  the lower jaw is moved forward to widen the patient's airway.  UPPP alone
has  a poor success rate; however, when performed in conjunction with mandibular
advancement,  a greater success rate has been claimed.  This combined procedure,
performed  by  highly  specialized surgeons, is expensive and involves prolonged
and  often  painful  recovery  periods.

Nasal  CPAP,  by  contrast, is a non-invasive means of treating OSA.  Nasal CPAP
was  first  used  as  a  treatment  for  OSA  in 1980 by Dr. Colin Sullivan, the
Chairman  of  our  Medical  Advisory Board. CPAP systems were commercialized for
treatment  of  OSA  in  the United States in the mid 1980's. Today, use of nasal
positive  airway  pressure  is  generally acknowledged as the most effective and
least  invasive  therapy  for  managing  OSA.

During  nasal  CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal mask connected to a
small portable air flow generator that delivers room air at a positive pressure.
The  patient breathes in air from the flow generator and breathes out through an
exhaust  port  in the mask.  Continuous air pressure applied in this manner acts
as  a  pneumatic  splint  to  keep  the  upper  airway  open  and  unobstructed.

CPAP  is  not a cure but a therapy for managing OSA, and therefore, must be used
on  a daily basis as long as treatment is required.  Patient compliance has been
a  major  factor  in  the efficacy of CPAP treatment.  Early generations of CPAP
units  provided  limited  patient comfort and convenience.  Patients experienced
soreness  from the repeated use of nasal masks and had difficulty falling asleep
with  the  CPAP  device  operating  at  the prescribed pressure.  In more recent
years,  product  innovations to improve patient comfort and compliance have been
developed.  These  include  more  comfortable  mask  systems; delay timers which
gradually  raise  air  pressure allowing the patient to fall asleep more easily;
bilevel  flow  generators,  including  VPAP systems, which provide different air
pressures  for  inhalation and exhalation; heated humidification systems to make
the  airflow  more  comfortable;  and  auto  titration  devices which reduce the
average  pressure  delivered  during  the  night.

                                   -5-
<PAGE>

BUSINESS  STRATEGY

We  believe  that  the  SDB  market will continue to grow in the future due to a
number  of factors including increasing awareness of OSA, improved understanding
of  the  role  of  SDB  treatment  in  the management of cardiac, neurologic and
related  disorders,  and  an  increase in home-based diagnosis. Our strategy for
expanding  our  business  operations  and  capitalizing on the growth of the SDB
market  consists  of  the  following  key  elements.

CONTINUE  PRODUCT  DEVELOPMENT  AND  INNOVATION.  We  are  committed  to ongoing
innovation  in  developing  products for the diagnosis and treatment of SDB.  We
have  been  a  leading  innovator of products designed to more effectively treat
apneas,  increase  patient  comfort  and  encourage  compliance  with prescribed
therapy.  For  example,  in  1999 we introduced the Mirage Full Face Mask.  This
mask  contains  an inflatable air pocket, which conforms to the patient's facial
contours, creating a more comfortable and better seal.  Additionally, in 2002 we
introduced  the  AutoSet  Spirit  flow  generator,  our  second  generation
autotitrating  device  that  adapts  to the patient's breathing patterns to more
effectively  prevent  apneas.  We believe that continued product development and
innovation  are  key  factors  to  our ongoing success. Approximately 14% of our
employees  are  devoted  to research and development activities.  In fiscal year
2002,  we  invested  $14.9  million,  or  7.3%  of our revenues, in research and
development.

EXPAND  GEOGRAPHIC  PRESENCE.  We  market  our  products in over 60 countries to
sleep  clinics,  home  health care dealers and third party payers.  We intend to
increase  our  sales  and marketing efforts in our principal markets, as well as
expand  our  presence  into  new  geographic  regions.

INCREASE  PUBLIC  AND  CLINICAL  AWARENESS.  We intend to continue to expand our
existing  promotional  activities to increase awareness of SDB and our treatment
alternatives.  These  promotional  activities  target  the  population  with
predisposition  to  SDB as well as primary care physicians and specialists, such
as  cardiologists,  neurologists and pulmonologists. In addition, we also target
special interest groups, including the National Stroke Association, the American
Heart  Association  and  the  National  Sleep  Foundation.

In  addition  during fiscal 2002, the Company donated a total of $2.3 million to
the  ResMed  Sleep  Disordered  Breathing  Foundations  in the United States and
Australia  to  further  enhance research and awareness of SDB.  The foundations'
contributions  represent ResMed's continuing commitment to core medical research
into sleep disordered breathing, particularly the treatment of obstructive sleep
apnea.

EXPAND  INTO  NEW  CLINICAL  APPLICATIONS.  We  continually seek to identify new
applications  of  our  technology  for  significant unmet medical needs.  SDB is
associated  with  a  number of symptoms beyond fatigue and irritability.  Recent
studies  have established a clinical association between OSA and both stroke and
congestive  heart  failure.  We are currently developing a device, which has not
been  approved for sale in the United States, for the treatment of Cheyne-Stokes
breathing  in  patients  with congestive heart failure. In addition, we maintain
close working relationships with a number of prominent physicians to explore new
medical  applications  for  our  products  and  technology.

LEVERAGE  THE EXPERIENCE OF OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM AND MEDICAL ADVISORY BOARD.  Our
senior  management  team has extensive experience in the medical device industry
in  general,  and in the field of SDB in particular.  Our Medical Advisory Board
is  comprised  of experts in the field of SDB, including Dr. Colin Sullivan, the
inventor  of  nasal  CPAP.  We intend to continue to leverage the experience and
expertise  of  these  individuals  to  maintain  our  innovative approach to the
development  of  products and increase awareness of the serious medical problems
caused  by  SDB.

                                   -6-
<PAGE>

PRODUCTS

Our  portfolio  of  products  for  the  treatment  of OSA and other forms of SDB
includes  flow generators, diagnostic products, mask systems, headgear and other
accessories.

FLOW  GENERATORS

We produce nasal CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet systems for the diagnosis, titration and
treatment  of  SDB.  The flow generator systems deliver positive airway pressure
through  a  small  nasal  mask  (or sometimes a full-face mask).  Our VPAP units
deliver  ultra-quiet,  comfortable  bilevel  therapy.  There  are  two  preset
pressures: a higher pressure as the patient breathes in, and a lower pressure as
the patient breathes out. Breathing out against a lower pressure makes treatment
more comfortable, particularly for patients who need high pressure levels or for
those  with  impaired  breathing  ability.  AutoSet  systems  are  based  on  a
proprietary  technology  to  monitor  breathing  that  can  also  be used in the
diagnosis  and  treatment  of OSA.  CPAP and VPAP flow generators, together with
our diagnostic products, accounted for approximately 58%, 57% and 60% of our net
revenues  in  fiscal  years  2002,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                         Date of
Flow  Generators                                  Description                                            Commercial
                                                                                                         Introduction
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                <C>                                                                                   <C>
VPAP
                   Bilevel portable device providing different pressure levels for inhalation and
                   exhalation, improved pressure switching and reduced noise output and spontaneous
VPAP II            breath triggering.                                                                    March 1996
                   Bilevel portable device providing different pressure levels for inhalation and
Moritz S#          exhalation with integrated humidifier.                                                October 2001*
COMFORT            Bilevel device with limited features.                                                 March 1996
                   Bilevel portable device with spontaneous and spontaneous/timed breath triggering
VPAP II ST         modes of operation.                                                                   April 1996
VPAP II ST A       Bilevel device with power failure alarms.                                             August 1998
                   Bilevel ST device with spontaneous and spontaneous/timed breath triggering modes
Moritz ST#         of operation, and with power failure alarms, system with integrated humidifier.       October 2001*
                   Bilevel ventilatory support system for the treatment of adult patients with
VPAP MAX+          respiratory insufficiency or respiratory failure.                                     November 1998
AUTOSET
AutoSet Spirit     Modular, autotitrating device with optional integrated humidifier.                    September 2001
                   Autotitrating device, which continually adjusts CPAP treatment pressure based on
AutoSet T          patient airway resistance.                                                            March 1999
                   Delivers varying degrees of ventilatory assistance to stabilize breathing and reduce
AutoSet CS#        cheyne stokes respiration in congestive heart failure patients.                       December 1998
CPAP
ResMed S7 series+  Continuous Positive Pressure flow generator.                                          July 2002
ResMed S6 series   Quiet, compact CPAP device with various comfort features.                             June 2000
                   Continuous Positive Pressure flow generator available with or without integrated
Max II nCPAP#      humidifier.  Features low noise and reduced pressure swings.                          April 1997*
Minni Max nCPAP#   CPAP device with integrated and attachable humidifier and low noise levels.           March 2000*
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
*MAP  product,  not  approved  for  marketing  in  the  United  States.
+  Sold  in  USA  only
#  Sold  outside  USA  only

                                       -7-
<PAGE>

MASK  SYSTEMS

Mask  systems are one of the most important elements of an OSA treatment system.
Masks  are  a  primary  determinant  of patient comfort and as such may drive or
impede  patient compliance with therapy.  We have been a consistent innovator in
masks,  improving  patient  comfort  while  minimizing  size and weight.  Masks,
accessories  and  motors accounted for approximately 42%, 43% and 40% of our net
revenues  in  fiscal  years  2002,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                      Date of
Mask  Products                                          Description                                                   Commercial
                                                                                                                      Introduction
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



<S>                             <C>                                                                                   <C>
                                Proprietary mask design with a contoured nasal cushion that adjusts to patient's
Mirage Mask                     facial contours. Quiet, light and low profile.                                        August 1997
                                Mirage-based full face mask system. Provides an effective method of applying
                                ventilatory assist Noninvasive Positive Pressure Ventilation therapy. Can be used to
Mirage Full Face Mask Series 2  address mouth- breathing problems in conventional bilevel or CPAP therapy.            October 2001
                                Advanced version of the Mirage system with reduced noise characteristics and
Ultra Mirage Mask               improved forehead bridge.                                                             June 2000
Protege  Mask+                   Market entry mask. Upgradable to Ultra Mirage technology.                             May 2002
                                Nasal mask with only four major parts, allows simplified handling for patients and
Papillon Mask#                  distributors.                                                                         April 2002*
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
*  MAP  product,  not  approved  for  marketing  in  the  United  States.
+  Sold  in  USA  only
#  Sold  outside  USA  only


DIAGNOSTIC  PRODUCTS
We  market  sleep recorders for the diagnosis, titration and treatment of SDB in
sleep  clinics  and  hospitals.  These  diagnostic  systems  record  relevant
respiratory  and  sleep  data,  which  can  be analyzed by a sleep specialist or
physician  who  can  then  tailor  an  appropriate OSA treatment regimen for the
patient.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                        Date of
Diagnostic  Products                              Description                                           Commercial
                                                                                                        Introduction
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>                                                                               <C>
                      Device to permit remote monitoring and adjustment of ResMed CPAP, VPAP, and
                      AutoSet T Flow generators. An internal pressure transducer enables the clinician
                      to interface with polysomnography to monitor airflow in both titration and
ResControl            diagnostic studies.                                                               September 1999
                      Digital sleep recorder that provides comprehensive sleep diagnosis in a sleep
Embla+                laboratory.                                                                       October 1999
Embletta+             Pocket-size digital recorder that performs ambulatory sleep studies.              November 2000
MESAM IV Portable+    Portable diagnostic system that measures snore, heart rate, body position, and
Diagnostic System+    oxygen saturation in conjunction with computer assisted analysis.                 December 1989*
Poly-MESAM Portable+  Configurable cardio-respiratory polygraphy system up to 8 channels, includes
Diagnostic System+    ECG, thorax and abdomen belts, PLMS sensor.                                       February 1995*
MEPAL Diagnostic+
System                Polysomnography system designed for use in the sleep laboratory.                  February 1999*
MEPAL mobil+
Diagnostic System     Ambulatory polysomnography system.                                                March 2001*
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
*MAP  product,  not  approved  for  marketing  in  the  United  States.
+Not  manufactured  by  ResMed.

                                   -8-
<PAGE>

ACCESSORIES  AND  OTHER  PRODUCTS

To  enhance  patient comfort, convenience and compliance, we market a variety of
other  products and accessories. These products include humidifiers, such as the
SULLIVAN  HumidAire,  which  connect  directly with the CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet T
flow  generators  to  humidify and heat the air delivered to the patient.  Their
use  prevents  the  drying  of  nasal  passages that can cause discomfort. Other
optional  accessories  include  a  cold  passover  humidifier,  carry  bags  and
breathing  circuits.  MAP  also  offers  a  range  of accessories, including the
Twister  remote,  an  intelligent  remote  control  for  use  in  the  sleep lab
environment  to  set  and  monitor  flow  generators,  the Aero-Click connection
system,  which  allows  a  quick, simple connect/disconnect between the mask and
CPAP  air  delivery  source  and  the  AeroFix  headgear,  for  the  comfortable
adjustment  of  masks for CPAP therapy.  Since the May 2002 acquisition of Servo
Magnetics  Inc., we have sold custom electric motors for use in data storage and
aerospace  applications.


PRODUCT  DEVELOPMENT  AND  CLINICAL  TRIALS

We  have  a  strong  track record in innovation in the sleep market. In 1989, we
introduced  our first nasal CPAP device. Since then we have been committed to an
ongoing  program of product advancement and development.  Currently, our product
development  efforts  are  focused  on  not  only  improving our current product
offerings,  but  also  expanding  into new product applications. For example, in
1997,  we  introduced  the  Mirage  Mask.  This mask was based on the innovative
Bubble  Mask  technology  introduced  in  1991,  which used the principle of air
inflation  of  the  mask cushion to create a more comfortable and better seal by
better  conforming  to  patient  facial  contours.  Additionally,  in  1999,  we
introduced  the AutoSet T Flow generator, an autotitrating device that adapts to
the  patient's  breathing  patterns  to  effectively  prevent  apneas.

We  continually  seek  to  identify  new  applications  of  our  technology  for
significant  unmet  medical  needs.  SDB is associated with a number of symptoms
beyond  fatigue  and  irritability.  Recent  studies have established a clinical
association  between SDB and hypertension, stroke, and congestive heart failure.
For  example,  we are currently developing a device, which has not been approved
for  sale  in the United States, for the treatment of Cheyne-Stokes breathing in
patients  with congestive heart failure.  We also support clinical trials in the
United  States,  Germany,  France,  the  United  Kingdom  and  Australia.

We  consult  with  physicians  at  major  sleep  centers throughout the world to
identify  technological trends in the treatment of SDB. Some of these physicians
currently  serve  on  our  Medical  Advisory  Board.  New product ideas are also
identified  by our marketing staff, direct sales force, network of distributors,
manufacturers'  representatives,  customers,  and  patients.  Typically,  our
internal  development  staff  then  performs  new  product  development.

In  fiscal  years  2002, 2001 and 2000, we invested $14,910,000, $11,146,000 and
$8,499,000,  respectively,  on  research  and  development.


SALES  AND  MARKETING

Our  products are typically purchased by a home healthcare dealer who then sells
the  products to the patient.  The decision to purchase our products, as opposed
those  of our competitors, is made or influenced by one or more of the following
individuals  or  organizations:  the prescribing physician and his or her staff,
the  home  healthcare  dealer,  the  insurer  and  the  patient.
We  currently  market  our  products  in  over  60  countries using a network of
distributors,  independent  manufacturers'  representatives and our direct sales
force.  We  attempt  to  tailor  our marketing approach to each national market,
based  on  regional  awareness  of  SDB  as a health problem, physician referral
patterns,  consumer  preferences  and  local  reimbursement  policies.

                                   -9-
<PAGE>

NORTH  AMERICA AND LATIN AMERICA.  In the United States, our sales and marketing
activities  are conducted through a field sales organization made up of regional
territory representatives, program development specialists and diagnostic system
specialists,  regional  sales  directors,  and  independent  manufacturers'
representatives.  Our  United  States field sales organization markets and sells
products  to more than 4,000 home health care dealer branch locations throughout
the  United  States.  Our  direct  sales  force  receives  a  base  salary, plus
commissions,  while  our  independent  sales  representatives  receive  higher
commissions,  but  no  base  salary.

We  also promote and market our products directly to sleep clinics. Patients who
are  diagnosed  with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment are typically referred by
the  diagnosing  sleep  clinic  to  a  home  health  care  dealer  to  fill  the
prescription.  The  home  health care dealer, in consultation with the referring
physician,  will  assist the patient in selecting the equipment, fit the patient
with  the appropriate mask and set the flow generator pressure to the prescribed
level.  In  the  United  States,  our  sales  employees  and  manufacturers'
representatives  are  managed  by  two  regional  Sales  Managers  and  our Vice
President  of  Sales.

Our  Canadian  and  Latin  American  sales  are  conducted  through  independent
distributors.  Sales  in  North America and Latin America accounted for 49%, 52%
and  54% of our net revenues for fiscal years 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

EUROPE.  We  market  our  products  in  most  major European countries.  We have
wholly  owned  subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Netherlands,
Austria,  Sweden and Switzerland and we use independent distributors to sell our
products  in  other  areas of Europe.  Distributors are selected in each country
based  on  their  knowledge  of  respiratory  medicine  and  a commitment to SDB
therapy.  In  each country in which we have a subsidiary, a local senior manager
is  responsible  for  direct  national  sales.

Our  Executive  Vice  President  is responsible for coordination of all European
activities  and, in conjunction with local management, the direct sales activity
in  Europe.  Sales  in  Europe  accounted  for 42%, 39% and 35% of our total net
revenues  for  fiscal  years  2002,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.

AUSTRALIA/REST  OF  WORLD.  Marketing  in Australia and the rest of the world is
the  responsibility of our Executive Vice President.  Sales in Australia and the
rest of the world accounted for 9%, 9% and 11% of our total net revenues for the
fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  2002,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.

OTHER  MARKETING  EFFORTS.  In  addition  to our sales efforts, we work with the
following  cardiovascular  disease  associations  (CVD  includes Coronary Artery
Disease,  Congestive Heart Failure, Hypertension, Stroke, and Transient Ischemic
Attacks) to raise awareness of the co-morbidity of SDB in cardiovascular disease
patients:

(1)  National  Stroke  Association:  We have developed a strategic alliance with
the  National Stroke Association to increase awareness about the high prevalence
of  SDB  in  the  stroke  survivor  population.

(2)  American  Heart  Association:  We  are  working  closely  with  the Western
Affiliates  of  the  American Heart Association on a number of local programs to
increase  awareness and education about SDB. We are also in discussions with the
national American Heart/American Stroke associations regarding national programs
initially  targeting  clinicians  on the impact of SDB on both heart disease and
stroke patients, as well as its role in the development of hypertension, a major
risk  factor  for  both  heart  disease  and  stroke.

                                   -10-
<PAGE>

(3)  National  Sleep  Foundation:  The National Sleep Foundation is a non profit
organization  dedicated  to  improving  public  health and safety by raising the
level  of awareness and education toward sleep related programs and research. We
have  been  an  active  corporate  partner and have supported the National Sleep
Foundation  for  a  number  of  years.

We  believe  that  our  affiliations and continued work with these organizations
raises  the  awareness  of  SDB  as  a  significant  health  concern.


MANUFACTURING

Our  principal  manufacturing  facilities  are  located in Sydney, Australia and
comprise  a  120,000  square  foot  manufacturing  and  research and development
facility. Our manufacturing operations consist primarily of assembly and testing
of  our  flow  generators, masks and accessories. Of the numerous raw materials,
parts  and  components  purchased for assembly of our therapeutic and diagnostic
sleep  disorder  products,  most are off-the-shelf items available from multiple
vendors.  We  generally  manufacture  to  our  internal sales forecasts and fill
orders  as  received.  Over  the last two years the manufacturing processes have
been  transformed  along  world  class  manufacturing  guidelines  to flow lines
staffed  by  dedicated  teams.  Each  team  is  responsible  for manufacture and
quality  of  their  product  group  and  decisions  are based on performance and
quality  measures  including  customer  feedback.

Our  quality  management  system  is  based  upon  the requirements of ISO 9001,
EN46001 (European Medical Standards), FDA Quality System Regulations for medical
devices  (21  CFR  part  820) and the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC).  Our
Sydney,  Australia  facility  is  accredited to ISO 9001 and EN46001 and our San
Diego,  California  facility  is  accredited to ISO 9002 and EN46002.  These two
sites  have  third  party  audits  conducted  by the ISO certification bodies at
regular  intervals.

Our  German  manufacturing  operation  based in Munich operates in a facility of
approximately  24,000  square feet.  This facility is accredited to ISO 9001 and
EN46001  and  primarily  assembles  and  tests  flow  generators for sale by our
subsidiary  MAP  GmbH.  Appropriate quality controls monitor and measure product
assembly  and  performance.

In  addition  to  our  Australian  and  German  manufacturing operations we also
manufacture high quality electric motors for both our flow generator devices and
external  customers, primarily in the data storage and aerospace sectors, at our
Servo Magnetics Incorporated (SMI) facility at Canoga Park, California.  The SMI
facility  is  approximately  35,500  square  feet  .


THIRD-PARTY  REIMBURSEMENT

The  cost of medical care in many of the countries in which we operate is funded
in  substantial  part by government and private insurance programs.  Although we
do  not  generally receive payments for our products directly from these payers,
our success in major markets is dependent upon the ability of patients to obtain
adequate  reimbursement  for  our  products.

                                   -11-
<PAGE>

In  the  United States, our products are purchased primarily by home health care
dealers,  hospitals  or  sleep  clinics,  which  then invoice third-party payers
directly.  Domestic third-party payers include Medicare, Medicaid, and corporate
health  insurance  plans.  These payers may deny reimbursement if they determine
that  a  device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods,
or  is  experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate.  The long-term trend towards
managed  health  care,  or  legislative  proposals  to reform health care, could
control  or  significantly  influence  the  purchase of health care services and
products  and  could  result  in  lower  prices  for  our  products.

In the United States, we sell our products primarily to home health care dealers
and  to  sleep clinics; we do not file claims and bill governmental programs and
other  third-party  payers  directly  for  reimbursement  for  our  products.
Nevertheless,  we  are  still  subject  to  laws  and  regulations  relating  to
governmental  programs,  and  any  violation of these laws and regulations could
result  in  civil  and  criminal  penalties,  including  fines.

In  particular,  the  federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits persons from knowingly
and  willfully  soliciting,  receiving,  offering  or  providing  remuneration,
directly  or  indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the
furnishing,  recommending  or arranging for a good or service, for which payment
may be made under a Federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid
programs.  The  government  has  interpreted  this  law  broadly to apply to the
marketing  and sales activities of manufacturers and distributors like us.  Many
states  have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Law.  We are also
subject  to  other  federal  and state fraud laws applicable to payment from any
third-party  payer.  These  laws  prohibit  persons from knowingly and willfully
filing  false  claims  or  executing  a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit
program,  including  private  third-party  payers.  These  laws  may  apply  to
manufacturers  and  distributors who provide information on coverage, coding and
reimbursement  of  their  products  to  persons who bill third-party payers.  We
continuously  strive to comply with these laws and believe that our arrangements
do  not  violate  these  laws.  Liability may still arise from the intentions or
actions of the parties with whom we do business or from a different governmental
agency  interpretation  of  the  laws.

In  some  foreign  markets,  such  as  Spain,  France  and  Germany,  government
reimbursement  is  currently  available  for  purchase or rental of our products
subject,  however,  to  constraints  such  as  price  controls  or  unit  sales
limitations.  In Australia and in some other foreign markets, there is currently
limited  or  no  reimbursement  for  devices  that  treat  OSA.


SERVICE  AND  WARRANTY

We  generally  offer  one-to-two  year  limited warranties on our flow generator
products.  Warranties on mask systems are for 90 days.  In most markets, we rely
on  our  distributors  to repair our products with parts supplied by us.  In the
United  States,  home health care dealers generally arrange shipment of products
to  our  San  Diego  facility  for  repair.

We  receive  returns  of  our  products  from the field for various reasons.  We
believe  that the level of returns experienced to date is consistent with levels
typically  experienced  by  manufacturers  of  similar  devices.  We provide for
warranties  and  returns  based  on  historical  data.

                                   -12-
<PAGE>

COMPETITION

The  markets  for  our  products  are  highly  competitive.  We believe that the
principal  competitive  factors  in  all  of  our  markets are product features,
reliability and price.  Reputation and efficient distribution are also important
factors.

We  compete  on  a  market-by-market basis with various companies, some of which
have  greater  financial,  research,  manufacturing and marketing resources than
ourselves.  In  the  United  States,  our  principal  market, Respironics, Inc.,
DeVilbiss,  a  division  of Sunrise Medical Inc., and Nellcor Puritan Bennett, a
subsidiary of Tyco Inc., are the primary competitors for our CPAP products.  Our
principal  European  competitors  are  also  Respironics, DeVilbiss, and Nellcor
Puritan  Bennett,  as  well  as  regional European manufacturers.  The disparity
between  our  resources and those of our competitors may increase as a result of
the  recent  trend  towards  consolidation  in  the  health  care  industry.  In
addition,  our  products  compete with surgical procedures and dental appliances
designed  to  treat  OSA  and  other  SDB  related  respiratory conditions.  The
development of new or innovative procedures or devices by others could result in
our  products  becoming  obsolete  or  noncompetitive,  resulting  in a material
adverse  effect  on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Any product developed by us that gains regulatory clearance will have to compete
for market acceptance and market share.  An important factor in such competition
may  be the timing of market introduction of competitive products.  Accordingly,
the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing
and  regulatory  clearance  processes  and  supply  commercial quantities of the
product  to  the  market  are  expected to be important competitive factors.  In
addition,  our ability to compete will continue to be dependent on the extent to
which  we  are  successful  in  protecting  our  patents  and other intellectual
property.


PATENTS  AND  PROPRIETARY  RIGHTS  AND  RELATED  LITIGATION

Through  our  subsidiaries  ResMed  Limited  and MAP Medizintechnik fur Arzt und
Patient  GmbH, we own or have licensed rights to 72 issued United States patents
(including  15  design  patents)  and  116 issued foreign patents.  In addition,
there  are  90  pending  United  States  patent applications (including 9 design
patent applications) and 218 pending foreign patent applications.  Some of these
patents  and  patent  applications relate to significant aspects and features of
our  products.  These include U.S. patents relating to CPAP devices, delay timer
system,  the  Bubble  Mask, and an automated means of varying air pressure based
upon a patient's changing needs during nightly use, such as that employed in our
AutoSet  device.

Of  our  patents, two United States patents and three foreign patents are due to
expire  in the next five years, with one foreign patent due to expire in each of
the years 2004, 2005 and 2007 and two United States patents in 2007.  We believe
that  the expiration of these patents will not have a material adverse impact on
our  competitive  position.

We  rely  on  a  combination  of  patents,  trade  secrets,  trade  marks  and
non-disclosure  agreements  to  protect  our  proprietary technology and rights.
ResMed  Limited  is pursuing infringement actions against two of its competitors
and  is  investigating  possible  infringement  by  others.  See Item 3 - "Legal
Proceedings".

Additional  litigation  may be necessary to attempt to enforce patents issued to
us, to protect our rights, or to defend third-party claims of infringement by us
of  the  proprietary rights of others.  Patent laws regarding the enforceability
of  patents  vary from country to country.  Therefore, there can be no assurance
that  patent  issues will be uniformly resolved, or that local laws will provide
us  with  consistent  rights  and  benefits.

                                   -13-
<PAGE>


GOVERNMENT  REGULATIONS

Our  products  are  subject  to  extensive regulation particularly as to safety,
efficacy  and  adherence  to  FDA Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and related
manufacturing standards. Medical device products are subject to rigorous FDA and
other  governmental  agency  regulations in the United States and regulations of
relevant  foreign  agencies  abroad.  The  FDA  regulates  the  introduction,
manufacture,  advertising,  labeling,  packaging,  marketing,  distribution, and
record  keeping  for  such  products,  in  order to ensure that medical products
distributed  in the United States are safe and effective for their intended use.
In  addition,  the  FDA  is  authorized to establish special controls to provide
reasonable  assurance  of  the  safety  and  effectiveness of most devices.  Non
compliance  with applicable requirements can result in import detentions, fines,
civil  penalties,  injunctions,  suspensions  or losses of regulatory approvals,
recall or seizure of products, operating restrictions, refusal of the government
to  approve  product  export  applications  or  allow  us  to  enter into supply
contracts,  and  criminal  prosecution.

The  FDA  requires that a manufacturer introducing a new medical device or a new
indication  for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section 510(k)
premarket  notification  clearance  or a premarket approval, or PMA, prior to it
being  introduced  into  the U.S. market. Our products currently marketed in the
United  States  are  marketed  in reliance on 510(k) pre-marketing clearances as
either  Class  I  or Class II devices. The process of obtaining a Section 510(k)
clearance  generally  requires  the  submission  of  performance  data and often
clinical  data,  which  in  some cases can be extensive, to demonstrate that the
device  is  "substantially equivalent'' to a device that was on the market prior
to  1976  or  to  a  device  that has been found by the FDA to be "substantially
equivalent''  to such a pre-1976 device.  As a result, FDA approval requirements
may  extend  the  development  process  for  a  considerable length of time.  In
addition,  in  some  cases, the FDA may require additional review by an advisory
panel,  which  can  further  lengthen  the  process.  The  PMA process, which is
reserved  for new devices that are not substantially equivalent to any predicate
device  and  for  high risk devices or those that are used to support or sustain
human  life,  may  take  several  years and requires the submission of extensive
performance  and  clinical  information.

As  a  medical  device  manufacturer,  all  of  our  domestic  and  Australian
manufacturing  facilities  are  subject  to inspection on a routine basis by the
FDA.  We  believe  that our design, manufacturing and quality control procedures
are  in  substantial  compliance  with  the FDA's regulatory requirements. MAP's
facilities  are not subject to FDA regulation, because none of MAP's products is
currently  marketed  in  the  United  States.

Sales  of  medical  devices  outside the United States are subject to regulatory
requirements that vary widely from country to country.  Approval for sale of our
medical  devices  in  Europe is through the CE mark process.  Where appropriate,
our  products  are  CE  marked to the European Union's Medical Device Directive.
Under  the CE marketing scheme, our products are classified as either Class I or
Class  II;  our  devices  are listed in the United States with FDA; in Australia
with  the  Therapeutic  Goods  Administration, or TGA; and in Canada with Health
Canada.

                                   -14-
<PAGE>


EMPLOYEES

As  of  June 30, 2002, we had 1,250 employees or full time consultants, of which
503  persons were employed in warehousing and manufacturing, 178 in research and
development,  337  in  sales  and  marketing  and 232 in administration.  Of our
employees  and  consultants,  597  were  located in Australia, 317 in the United
States,  318  in  Europe  and  18  in  Asia.

We believe that the success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability
to  attract and retain qualified personnel.  None of our employees is covered by
a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  We believe that our relationship with our
employees  is  good.


MEDICAL  ADVISORY  BOARD

Our  Medical  Advisory Board, or MAB, consists of physicians specializing in the
field  of  sleep disordered breathing.  MAB members meet as a group twice a year
with  members of our senior management and members of our research and marketing
departments  to  advise us on technology trends in SDB and other developments in
sleep  disorders  medicine.  MAB  members  are  also  available to consult on an
as-needed  basis with our senior management.  In alphabetical order, MAB members
include:

CLAUDIO  BASSETTI,  Dr.  Claudio  Bassetti  is  a  Professor  in  the Faculty of
Medicine,  University  of  Zurich, where he is the Director and Vice-Chairman of
the  Neurological Clinic.  A member of the American Academy of Neurology and the
American  Sleep  Disorders  Association,  Dr.  Bassetti  is also a member of the
scientific board of the European Sleep Research Society, and an associate editor
of  'Sleep  Medicine'.  He  is  on  the  editorial  board  of 'Swiss Archives of
Neurology  and  Psychiatry and has produced over 100 publications.  Dr. Bassetti
is  a  leader  in  studying  the  implications  of sleep disordered breathing on
stroke.

MICHAEL  COPPOLA,  MD,  is a leading pulmonary critical care and sleep disorders
physician in private practice in Massachusetts.  He is an attending physician at
Baystate  Medical  Center  and Mercy Hospital in Springfield, MA and a Fellow of
the  American  College  of Chest Physicians. He is Chairman of the Massachusetts
Sleep  Breathing  Disorders  Society.  He is also the Medical Director of Winmar
Diagnostics,  a  sleep  disordered  breathing  specialty  company, and Associate
Clinical  Professor  of  Medicine  at  Tufts  University  School  of  Medicine.

TERENCE  M.  DAVIDSON,  MD,  FACS,  is  Professor  of Surgery in the Division of
Otolaryngology  -  Head  and  Neck  Surgery at the University of California, San
Diego,  School of Medicine.  He is Section Chief of Head and Neck Surgery at the
Veterans  Administration  San  Diego  Healthcare  System  and Associate Dean for
Continuing  Medical Education at UCSD.  He is also director of the UCSD Head and
Neck  Surgery  Sleep  Clinic  in  La  Jolla,  CA.

ANTHONY  N.  DEMARIA,  MD  is  Professor  of  Medicine  and  Chief,  Division of
Cardiology  at  the University of California, San Diego, specializing in cardiac
imaging  techniques,  particularly  echocardiography.  He  is  a Diplomat in the
American  Board  of Internal Medicine and is board certified by the Subspecialty
Board  in  Cardiovascular  Disease.  He  is  Past President of both the American
College  of Cardiology and the American Society of Echocardiography. Dr. DeMaria
is currently the Editor-in-Chief Elect of the Journal of the American College of
Cardiology  and  has  authored  or  co-authored  over  400  articles for medical
journals.

NEIL  J.  DOUGLAS,  MD,  FRCP,  is  Professor of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine,
University  of  Edinburgh,  an Honorary Consultant Physician, Royal Infirmary of
Edinburgh  and Director of the Scottish National Sleep Laboratory. He is Dean of
the  Royal  College of Physicians of Edinburgh and Vice Chairman of the UK Royal
Colleges  Committee  of CME Directors and a member of the Working Party on Sleep
Apnea  of  the  Royal College of Physicians of London.  He is a past Chairman of
the British Sleep Society and past Secretary of the British Thoracic Society. He
has  published  over  200  papers  on  breathing  during  sleep.

                                   -15-
<PAGE>


NICHOLAS  HILL, MD, is Professor of Medicine at Brown University and Director of
Critical  Care  Services  at Rhode Island Hospital and Pulmonary Medicine at the
Miriam  Hospital, both in Providence.  He is a Fellow of the American College of
Chest  Physicians  and  a  member  of  the  Planning  Committee for the American
Thoracic  Society.

BARRY  J.  MAKE,  MD, is Director, Emphysema Center and Pulmonary Rehabilitation
National Jewish Medical and Research Center, and Professor of Pulmonary Sciences
and Critical Care Medicine of the University of Colorado School of Medicine.  He
has served on numerous national and international committees for respiratory and
cardiovascular diseases.  His research and clinical work has resulted in a large
number  of  publications  on mechanisms, treatment and rehabilitation of chronic
respiratory  disease.

BARBARA  PHILLIPS, MD, MSPH, FCCP, is Professor of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep  Medicine  at the University of  Kentucky College of Medicine. She directs
the  Sleep  Center,  Sleep  Clinics, and Sleep Fellowship at the Samaritan Sleep
Center in Lexington, KY.  She is a Board member of the American Academy of Sleep
Medicine,  a recipient of a Sleep Academic Award from the National Institutes of
Health,  past  president  of  the  American  Board of Sleep Medicine, and a past
member of the Advisory Board to the National Center of Sleep Disorders Research.
Her  research  interests  are the epidemiology of sleep-disordered breathing and
sleep  disorders  in  the  aged.

COLIN  SULLIVAN,  MD, PhD, FRACP, FAA is Chairman of the MAB and the inventor of
nasal CPAP for treating obstructive sleep apnea. He is Professor of Medicine and
Director  of  the David Read  Research Laboratory and Director of the Australian
Centre  for Advanced Medical Technology at the Sydney University Medical School.
He is Head of the Centre for Respiratory Failure and Sleep Disorders, as well as
a  thoracic  physician at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital.  He is also Academic
head  of  the  Pediatric  Sleep  Laboratory, New Children's Hospital, and Sydney
Children's Hospital. Dr. Sullivan is a Fellow of the Royal Australian College of
Physicians,  and  Fellow  of  the  Australian  Academy  of  Science.

HELMUT  TESCHLER,  MD,  is  Associate  Professor  and  Head of the Department of
Respiratory  Medicine  and  Sleep  Medicine,  Ruhrlandklinik,  Medical  Faculty,
University  of  Essen,  Germany.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  each  of  the following
Associations:  German  Pneumology  Society,  American Thoracic Society, European
Respiratory  Society  and  American  Sleep  Disorders  Association.

J.  WOODROW WEISS, MD, is Associate Professor of Medicine and Co-Chairman of the
Division  of  Sleep  Medicine  at  Harvard  Medical  School,  as  well as Chief,
Pulmonary  &  Critical  Care  Medicine,  Beth  Israel  Deaconess Medical Center,
Boston,  MA.

B.  TUCKER  WOODSON,  MD,  FACS, is an Associate Professor of Otolaryngology and
Communication  Sciences  at  the Medical College of Wisconsin. He is a Fellow of
the  American Academy of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery and the American
College  of  Surgeons.  Dr.  Woodson  is  the Director of the Medical College of
Wisconsin/Froedert Memorial Lutheran Hospital Center for Sleep.  He is active on
multiple  committees  for  the  American  Academy of Sleep Medicine and American
Academy  of  Otolaryngology.

                                   -16-
<PAGE>


ITEM  2     PROPERTIES

Our  principal executive offices and U.S. distribution facilities, consisting of
approximately  144,000  square  feet,  are  located  in  Poway  (North San Diego
County),  California  in  a  building  we  own.  We  lease  facilities  for  our
manufacturing  operations in Sydney, Australia in a 120,000 square foot facility
and  in  Canoga  Park,  California  in  a  35,500  square  foot  facility.

Sales  and  warehousing  facilities  are  leased  in  Oxford,  England;
Moenchengladbach,  Germany;  Lyon,  France;  Trollhaettan, Sweden and Singapore.
Prior  to  moving  our  executive  offices and distribution facilities to Poway,
California,  we  leased  space  for  this purpose in San Diego, California.  Our
lease  on  those  premises expires in 2005.  In August 2000, we began subleasing
those  premises  to  another  company.

MAP's  principal  offices  are located in Munich Germany in a 45,000 square foot
facility  leased  by  us.  MAP's  subsidiaries  also  lease  sales and warehouse
facilities  in  Lyss,  Switzerland;  Villach,  Austria  and s'Hertogenbosch, The
Netherlands.


ITEM  3     LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

We  are  currently engaged in litigation relating to the enforcement and defense
of  certain  of  our  patents.

In  January  1995,  we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for
the Southern District of California seeking monetary damages from and injunctive
relief against Respironics for alleged infringement of three of our patents.  In
February 1995, Respironics filed a complaint in the United States District Court
for  the  Western  District  of  Pennsylvania  against  us seeking a declaratory
judgment that Respironics does not infringe claims of these patents and that our
patents  are  invalid  and unenforceable.  The two actions were combined and are
proceeding  in  the  United  States  District  Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.  In  June  1996,  we  filed  an  additional  complaint  against
Respironics  for  infringement of a fourth ResMed patent, and that complaint was
consolidated  with the earlier action.  As of this date, Respironics has brought
three  partial  summary  judgment  motions  for  non-infringement  of the ResMed
patents;  the  Court  has  granted  each  of  the motions.  In December 1999, in
response  to  the  Court's ruling on Respironics' third summary judgment motion,
the  parties  jointly stipulated to a dismissal of charges of infringement under
the fourth ResMed patent, with us reserving the right to reassert the charges in
the  event  of  a  favorable ruling on appeal. It is our intention to appeal the
summary  judgment  rulings after a final judgment in the consolidated litigation
has  been  entered  in  the  District  Court  proceedings.

In  January  2001,  MAP  Medizin-Technologie  GmbH  filed a lawsuit in the Civil
Chamber  of  Munich  Court  against Hofrichter GmbH seeking actual and exemplary
monetary  damages  for the unauthorized and infringing use of our trademarks and
patents.  An  initial  decision  has  been made in favor of MAP.  Hofrichter has
filed  an  appeal and has sought Court determination that the MAP patents do not
apply  to  certain  Hofrichter  products.

On  August  26,  2002,  ResMed  filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in San
Diego against Fisher & Paykel Healthcare.  The ResMed complaint seeks a judgment
that  selected  Fisher  &  Paykel  Healthcare mask products (ACLAIM and ACLAIM 2
masks)  infringe  patents  held  by  ResMed.  The  complaint further charges the
defendant  with  the  copying  of ResMed proprietary mask technology and alleges
trade  dress and common law violations relating to the appearance of ResMed mask
products.

                                   -17-
<PAGE>


While  we  are  prosecuting the above actions, there can be no assurance that we
will  be  successful.

ITEM  4     SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY  HOLDERS
            None.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our Common Stock commenced trading on June 2, 1995 on The NASDAQ National Market
under  the  symbol  "RESM".  On  September  30, 1999, we transferred our primary
listing  to  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol "RMD".  The
following  table  sets  forth  for the fiscal periods indicated the high and low
closing  prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                       2002            2001
                                  --------------  --------------
                                  High     Low     High     Low
                                  --------------  --------------
<S>                               <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>
Quarter One, ended September 30,  $60.95  $45.90  $38.38  $24.63
Quarter Two, ended December 31,    61.75   50.47   41.50   25.50
Quarter Three, ended March 31,     53.15   36.36   47.00   36.65
Quarter Four, ended June 30,       40.34   24.70   57.68   37.91

</TABLE>

As  of  September  6, 2002, there were 85 holders of record of our Common Stock.
We  have  not  paid  any  cash  dividends on our common stock since prior to the
initial  public  offering  of our common stock and we do not currently intend to
pay  cash  dividends  in  the foreseeable future.  We anticipate that all of our
earnings  and  other  cash resources, if any, will be retained for the operation
and  expansion  of  our  business  and  for  general  corporate  purposes.


SALE  OF  UNREGISTERED  SECURITIES

On  June 20, 2001, we issued $150.0 million of 4% convertible subordinated notes
due  2006  to  initial purchasers including Merrill Lynch, Pierce Fenner & Smith
Incorporated,  Deutsche  Banc  Alex.  Brown  Inc., William Blair & Company, LLC,
Macquarie  Bank, and UBS Warburg LLC.  The discount to the initial purchasers on
their  purchase  of  the  notes was $4.7 million.  On July 3, 2001, we issued an
additional $30.0 million in notes to the initial purchasers upon exercise of the
initial  purchasers'  over  allotment option, with an additional discount to the
initial  purchasers  of  $0.9  million.  This  increased  the  total  amount  of
convertible  subordinated  notes issued to $180.0 million, with a total discount
to  the  initial  purchasers  of  $5.6  million.

During  fiscal  2002, we repurchased $56.8 million face value of our convertible
subordinated  notes.  The  total  purchase price of the notes was $49.1 million,
including  $0.6  million   in  accrued interest.   We   recognized  a  gain   of
$4.0 million, net of tax of $2.5 million, on these transactions.  As at June 30,
2002,  we  had  convertible  subordinated  notes  outstanding of $123.3 million.

                                   -18-
<PAGE>

The  notes  and  the  common  stock  issuable  upon conversion of the notes (the
"Securities") were not registered under the Securities Act or any other state or
foreign  securities  laws at the time of issue.  The notes were offered and sold
only  to "qualified institutional buyers" as defined in Rule 144A or in offshore
transactions  outside the United States that met the requirements of Rule 903 of
Regulation  S  under  the  Securities  Act.

The  Securities were subsequently registered for resale under the Securities Act
(Registration  No.  333-70500)  effective  October 9, 2001; and consequently the
Securities  may  be resold in accordance with the prospectus that is part of the
registration  statement  by the selling security holders named in the prospectus
or  a  supplement  to the prospectus.  Other sales of the Securities may only be
made  in compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act and
all  other applicable securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from, or in a
transaction  not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act
and  any  other  applicable  securities  laws.

The  notes  are subject to an indenture between us and American Stock Transfer &
Trust  Company,  as  trustee.  The  notes  are convertible, at the option of the
holder,  at any time on or prior to maturity, into shares of our common stock at
a  conversion  price of $60.60 per share, which is equal to a conversion rate of
16.5017  shares  per  $1,000 principal amount of notes.  The conversion price is
subject  to  adjustment.  The  notes  bear  interest  at  4%  per  year, payable
semiannually  on  June  20  and December 20 of each year, beginning December 20,
2001.

We  may  redeem  some  or all of the notes at any time before June 20, 2004 at a
redemption  price  of  $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of notes, plus accrued
and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, if (a) the closing price of
our common stock has exceeded 150% of the conversion price then in effect for at
least  20  trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on
the  trading day before the date of mailing of the provisional redemption notice
and  (b)  a  shelf  registration  statement covering resale of the notes and the
common  stock  issuable  upon conversion of the notes is effective and available
for  use  and expected to remain effective and available for use for the 30 days
following  the  provisional  redemption  date.  Upon  any  such  provisional
redemption,  we  will  make  an  additional payment in cash equal to $166.67 per
$1,000  principal amount of notes, less the amount of any interest actually paid
on  the  notes  before  the  provisional  redemption  date.
We  may  also  redeem  some or all of the notes at any time on or after June 22,
2004,  but  prior to June 20, 2005, at a redemption price equal to 101.6% of the
principal  amount  of  notes  redeemed and at any time after June 19, 2005, at a
redemption price equal to 100.8% of the principal amount of notes redeemed, plus
in any case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, if the
closing price of our common stock has exceeded 130% of the conversion price then
in effect for at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading
days  ending  on  the  trading  day  before  the date of mailing of the optional
redemption  notice.

The  notes  are general unsecured obligations and are subordinated to all of our
existing  and future senior indebtedness and will be effectively subordinated to
all  of  the  indebtedness  and  liabilities of our subsidiaries.  The indenture
governing  the  notes will not limit the incurrence by us or our subsidiaries of
senior  indebtedness  or other indebtedness.  The notes mature on June 20, 2006.

On  May 14, 2002, we issued 853,448 shares of our common stock to one individual
as  partial  consideration  for our acquisition of Servo Magnetics Incorporated.
We  relied on the exemption from registration provided under Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  No solicitation was made in connection with
this  issuance,  other  than  negotiation  of  the  acquisition, and we obtained
representations  from  the recipient regarding his investment intent, experience
and  sophistication.

                                   -19-
<PAGE>


ITEM  6     SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA

The following table summarizes certain selected consolidated financial data for,
and  as  of  the  end of, each of the fiscal years in the five-year period ended
June  30, 2002.  The data set forth below should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this
Report.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                               Years Ended June 30,
                                                 -------------------------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA:             2002      2001       2000      1999      1998
                                                       (In thousands, except per share data)
                                                 -------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>
Net revenues                                    $204,076   $155,156   $115,615   $88,627   $66,519
Cost of sales                                     70,827     50,377     36,991    29,416    23,069

Gross profit                                     133,249    104,779     78,624    59,211    43,450

Selling, general and administrative expenses      64,481     49,364     36,987    27,414    21,093
Provision for restructure                              -        550          -         -         -
In-process research and development write off        350     17,677          -         -         -
Research and development expenses                 14,910     11,146      8,499     6,542     4,994
Donations to Research Foundations                  2,349          -          -         -         -

Total operating expenses                          82,090     78,737     45,486    33,956    26,087

Income from operations                            51,159     26,042     33,138    25,255    17,363

Other income (expenses):
Interest income (expense), net                    (3,224)      (762)       801       779     1,011
Government grants                                      -         72        279       833       611
Other, net                                           108      1,962        (52)   (2,290)   (2,873)
Gain on extinguishment of debt                     6,549          -          -         -         -

Total other income (expenses)                      3,433      1,272      1,028      (678)   (1,251)

Income before income taxes                        54,592     27,314     34,166    24,577    16,112
Income taxes                                      17,086     15,684     11,940     8,475     5,501

Net income                                      $ 37,506   $ 11,630   $ 22,226   $16,102   $10,611

Basic earnings per share                        $   1.17   $   0.37   $   0.74   $  0.55   $  0.37

Diluted earnings per share                      $   1.10   $   0.35   $   0.69   $  0.52   $  0.35

Basic shares outstanding                          32,174     31,129     30,153    29,416    29,000

Diluted shares outstanding                        34,080     33,484     32,303    31,068    30,044
</TABLE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     As of June 30,
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA            2002      2001      2000      1999     1998
                                                        (In thousands)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>
Working capital                          $144,666  $144,272  $ 47,550  $32,529  $32,759
Total assets                              376,191   288,090   115,594   89,889   64,618
Long-term debt, less current maturities   123,250   150,000         -        -        -
Total stockholders' equity                192,930   100,366    93,972   71,647   50,773
</TABLE>

                                   -20-
<PAGE>


ITEM  7     MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Management's  discussion  and  analysis  of  financial  condition and results of
operations  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  selected financial data and
consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes,  included  herein.

We  design,  manufacture and market equipment for the diagnosis and treatment of
sleep  disordered  breathing conditions, including obstructive sleep apnea.  Our
net  revenues are generated from the sale of our various flow generator devices,
nasal mask systems, accessories and other products, and, to a lesser extent from
royalties  and  sales  of  custom  motors.

We  have  invested significant resources in research and development and product
enhancement.  Since  1989, we have developed several innovations to the original
CPAP  device  to increase patient comfort and to improve ease of product use. We
have  been developing products for automated treatment, titration and monitoring
of  OSA,  such as the AutoSet T and AutoSet Spirit flow generators. Our research
and  development  expenses  have  been  subsidized  in  part  by  grants and tax
incentives  from  the  Australian  federal  government.


LABHARDT  ACQUISITION

On November 15, 2001, we acquired all the common stock of Labhardt Ag, our Swiss
distributor,  for total cash consideration, including acquisition costs, of $5.5
million.

The  acquisition  has  been  accounted  for  as  a purchase and accordingly, the
results  of  operations  of  Labhardt  Ag have been included in our consolidated
financial  statements  from November 15, 2001.  The excess of the purchase price
over  the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $1.3 million has
been  recorded  as  goodwill.


SMI  ACQUISITION

On  May  14,  2002,  we  acquired  all  of  the  common stock of Servo Magnetics
Incorporated  ("SMI")  through  a merger with our wholly-owned subsidiary, Servo
Magnetics  Acquisitions  Inc,  for  total  consideration,  including acquisition
costs, of $32.6 million.  Consideration included the issue of 853,448 shares for
fair  value  of  $24.8 million with the balance of the acquisition price paid in
cash.  Upon  consummation  of  the  merger,  the  surviving  corporation,  Servo
Magnetics  Acquisition  Inc.,  changed  its  name  to  Servo  Magnetics  Inc.

The  acquisition  has  been  accounted  for  as  a purchase and accordingly, the
results  of  operations  of SMI have been included in our consolidated financial
statements  from  May  14, 2002.  The excess of the purchase price over the fair
value  of the net identifiable assets acquired of $1.9 million has been recorded
as  goodwill.

Purchased  in-process  research  and  development  of $350,000 was expensed upon
acquisition  of  SMI  because  technological  feasibility  of the products under
development  had  not  been established and no further alternative uses existed.
The  value  of  in  process  technology  was  calculated by identifying research
projects  in areas for which technological feasibility had not been established,
estimating  the  costs  to  develop  the  purchased  in  process technology into
commercially  viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
products,  discounting  the  net  cash  flows to present value, and applying the
reduced  percentage  completion of the projects thereto.  The discount rate used
in  the  analysis  was  19%  and  was  based on the risk profile of the acquired
assets.

                                   -21-
<PAGE>

Purchased  research and development projects related to electrical motor systems
used  in  medical  devices  and  health  equipment.  Key assumptions used in the
analysis  included  gross  margins  of  approximately  34%.  As  of  the date of
acquisition,  new  motor  systems  for  use  in these devices are expected to be
completed  and  commercially  available  by  fiscal  2004.  These  projects have
estimated  costs  to  complete  totalling  approximately  $450,000.

We  believe  that  the  assumptions  used  to  value  the  acquired   intangible
assets  were  reasonable at the time of acquisition.  No assurance can be given,
however,  that  the  underlying  assumptions  used  to estimate expected project
revenues,  development  costs  or  profitability, or events associated with such
projects,  will transpire as estimated.  For these reasons, among others, actual
results  may  vary  from  the  projected  results.


TAX  EXPENSE

Our  income  tax rate is governed by the laws of the regions in which our income
is recognized.  To date, a substantial portion of our income has been subject to
income  tax in Australia where the statutory rate was 30% in fiscal 2002 and was
34%  in  fiscal  2001 and 2000 respectively.  During fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000,
our  effective  tax  rate  has  fluctuated  between  approximately  31%  and
approximately  35%.  These fluctuations have resulted from, and future effective
tax  rates  will depend upon, numerous factors, including the amount of research
and  development  expenditures  for  which  a  125%  Australian tax deduction is
available,  the  level  of non-deductible expenses, and the use of available net
operating  loss  carryforward  deductions  and  other  tax  credits  or benefits
available  to  us  under  applicable  tax  laws.


FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  JUNE  30, 2002, COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2001

NET  REVENUES.  Net  revenue  increased  in  fiscal  2002 to $204.1 million from
$155.2  million  in  fiscal  2001,  an  increase  of $48.9 million or 32%.  This
increase  was  primarily  attributable  to an increase in unit sales of our flow
generators  and  accessories in both domestic and international markets and also
to  the  acquisition on February 16, 2001 of MAP Medizin-Technologie GmbH "MAP".

GROSS  PROFIT.  Gross  profit  increased  in  fiscal 2002 to $133.2 million from
$104.8  million  in  fiscal  2001,  an  increase of $28.5 million or 27%.  Gross
profit as a percentage of net revenue declined in fiscal 2002 to 65% from 68% in
fiscal  2001.  The  decline  in  gross margins reflects a change in geographical
sales  mix  (after adjusting for MAP sales), with a relatively higher percentage
of  domestic  sales,  which  achieve  lower  margins,  compared to international
markets.  The  decline  also  reflects  that  gross  margins  in  our  acquired
subsidiary, MAP, are historically lower than the average margins achieved by our
Company  as  a  whole.

SELLING,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.  Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  in 2002 to $64.5 million from $49.4 million
for  2001, an increase of $15.1 million or 31%.  As a percentage of net revenue,
selling,  general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2002 was 32%, consistent
with  fiscal 2001.  The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses
was  primarily  due  to the addition of 98 personnel in sales and administration
and  other  expenses  related  to  the increase  in  our  sales.  SG&A in fiscal
2002 also included a provision of $1.0 million against an outstanding receivable
from  American  Home  Patient  Inc. (AHP), a significant customer, who filed for
Chapter  11 Bankruptcy Protection on July 31, 2002.  AHP's filing for Chapter 11
Bankruptcy  Protection  is  not  expected  to  materially  impact  our business.



                                   -22-
<PAGE>

PROVISION  FOR  RESTRUCTURE.  In fiscal 2001, subsequent to the purchase of MAP,
we  restructured  MAP's  French  activities  and  took  a charge of $0.6 million
associated with the closure of MAP's unprofitable French operations.  We did not
incur  any  restructure  charges  in  fiscal  2002.

IN  PROCESS  RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT WRITE-OFF.  In fiscal 2002, purchased in
process  research  and  development  of  $0.4  million  was  expensed  upon  the
acquisition  of  SMI  because  technological  feasibility  of the products under
development  had  not  been established and no further alternative uses existed.
In  fiscal  2001, purchased in process research and development of $17.7 million
was  expensed  upon  acquisition of MAP because technological feasibility of the
products  under  development had not been established and no further alternative
uses  existed.

DONATIONS  TO  FOUNDATIONS.  In  fiscal  2002,  we committed $2.3 million to the
establishment  of  two ResMed Sleep Disordered Breathing Foundations, one in the
United  States  and  one  in  Australia.  The Foundations' overall mission is to
educate  both  the public and physicians about the inherent dangers of untreated
SDB/OSA,  particularly  as it relates to traffic and workplace accidents as well
as  cerebrovascular  and  cardiovascular  disease.

RESEARCH  AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES.  Research and development expenses increased
in  fiscal  2002 to $14.9 million from $11.1 million in fiscal 2001, an increase
of  $3.8  million  or  34%.  As  a  percentage  of  net  revenue,  research  and
development expenses increased to 7.3% in fiscal 2002 compared to 7.2% in fiscal
2001.  The  increase  in  research and development expenses was due to increased
salaries  associated  with  an  increase  in personnel and increased charges for
consulting  fees,  clinical  trials  and  technical  assessments  incurred  to
facilitate  development  of  new  products  and  also  includes  research  and
development  expenditures  of  MAP.

OTHER  INCOME  (EXPENSE).  Other income (expense), net, increased in fiscal 2002
to a net income  of $3.4 million from net income of $1.3 million in fiscal 2001.
The increase in other income primarily reflects a gain on extinguishment of debt
of  $6.5  million  partially offset by increased net interest expense associated
with  our  convertible  notes  and  foreign  exchange  losses.

INCOME TAXES.  The Company's effective income tax rate declined to approximately
31.3%  in  fiscal  2002  from  approximately 34.4% (excluding a non-recurring in
process  research  and development write-down of $17.7 million and restructuring
charge of $0.6 million) in fiscal 2001.  The lower tax rate was primarily due to
the  lowering  of  the  corporate  income  tax rate in Australia from 34% to 30%
effective  July 1, 2001.  The Company also benefits from a 125% tax deduction on
research  and  development  expenditures in Australia, which further reduces the
effective  tax  rate  on  Australian  sourced  income.


FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  JUNE  30,  2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2000

NET  REVENUES.  Net  revenues  increased  in  fiscal 2001 to $155.2 million from
$155.6  million  in  fiscal  2000,  an  increase  of $39.5 million or 34%.  This
increase  was  primarily  attributable  to an increase in unit sales of our flow
generators  and  accessories  in  North  and  Latin  America  where net revenues
increased  to $79.9 million from $62.7 million and in Europe, where net revenues
increased  to  $60.5  million from $40.5 million.  Net revenues were unfavorably
impacted  by  a  decline  in  European  foreign  exchange  rates.

                                   -23-
<PAGE>


GROSS PROFIT. Gross profit increased in fiscal 2001 to $104.8 million from $78.6
million  in  fiscal  2000,  an  increase  of $26.2 million or 33%.  The increase
resulted  primarily  from increased unit sales during fiscal 2001.  Gross profit
as  a  percentage  of  net revenues was 68%, consistent with fiscal 2000.  Lower
flow generator selling prices were offset by a decline in the Australian dollar,
improved  manufacturing  efficiencies  and increased sales of higher margin mask
system  units.

SELLING,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.  Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  in 2001 to $49.4 million from $37.0 million
for 2000, an increase of $12.4 million or 33%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses  were  steady  in  fiscal 2001,
compared  to  fiscal  2002  at  32%.  The  gross  increase  in  expenses was due
primarily  to  an  increase  to  471  from  281  in  the  number  of  sales  and
administrative  personnel  and  other  expenses  related  to the increase in our
sales.

RESEARCH  AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES.  Research and development expenses increased
in fiscal 2001 to $11.1 million from $8.5 million in fiscal 2001, an increase of
$2.6  million or 31%.  As a percentage of net revenues, research and development
expenses  remained static in fiscal 2001 at 7%.  The dollar increase in research
and  development  expenses  was  due  primarily to an increase in clinical trial
costs,  personnel  and  external  consultancy  fees.

OTHER  INCOME (EXPENSE).  Other income (expense) improved in fiscal 2001 to $1.3
million  from  $1.0  million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $0.3 million.  This
improvement  was due primarily to foreign currency gains incurred in our foreign
currency  hedging  structures,  partially  offset by interest expense associated
with  the purchase of MAP.  Net foreign currency gains for fiscal 2001 were $2.0
million  compared  to  net  foreign  currency  losses  of  $0.2 million in 2000.

INCOME  TAXES.  Our  effective  income  tax  rate  for  fiscal  2001  before MAP
acquisition  charges  of  $0.6  million  for  restructuring costs and in-process
research  and  development  write off of $17.7 million was 34.4% down from 34.9%
for  fiscal  2000.  This  reduction  was  primarily  due  to  the  reduction  in
Australian corporate tax rates from 36% to 34% on July 1, 2000 and to additional
research  and  development  expenses  in  Australia for which we received a 125%
deduction  for  income  tax  purposes.

LIQUIDITY  AND  CAPITAL  RESOURCES

As  of  June  30,  2002  and June 30, 2001, we had cash and cash equivalents and
marketable  securities  available-for-sale  of  approximately  $92.8 million and
$102.8  million,  respectively.  Working capital approximated $144.7 million and
$144.3  million  at  June  30,  2002  and  June  30,  2001  respectively.

During  the  year  ended  June 30, 2002, we generated cash of $35.6 million from
operations,  primarily as a result of increased profit from operations offset by
increases  in inventory and accounts receivable balances.  During the year ended
June  30,  2001 approximately $29.5 million of cash was generated by operations.

Capital  expenditures for the year ended June 30, 2002 and 2001 aggregated $28.2
million  and  $27.5  million respectively.  The majority of the expenditures for
the year ended June 30, 2002 related to the purchase of land in Sydney described
below,  a  computer  system  upgrade  and  acquisition of production tooling and
equipment.  The  capital  expenditures in the year ended June 30, 2001 primarily
reflected  the  capital  expenditure  of  $17.2  million  on  the  company's  US
headquarters  in  Poway, California in July 2000.   As a result of these capital
expenditures,  our  balance  sheet  reflects net property plant and equipment of
approximately  $79.3  million at June 30, 2002 compared to $55.1 million at June
30,  2001.

                                   -24-
<PAGE>


On  July  3,  2001,  we  issued  $30.0  million  in  over  allotments for our 4%
convertible subordinated notes issue, increasing the total amount of convertible
subordinated  notes  then outstanding to $180.0 million.  During fiscal 2002, we
repurchased $56.8 million face value of our convertible subordinated notes.  The
total  purchase  price of the notes was $49.1 million, including $0.6 million in
accrued  interest.  We  recognized  a  gain  of $4.0 million, net of tax of $2.5
million,  on  these  transactions.  As  at  June  30,  2002,  we had convertible
subordinated  notes  outstanding  of  $123.3  million.

We  may  from  time  to  time  seek to retire our convertible subordinated notes
through  cash  purchases  and/or  exchanges for equity securities in open market
purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise.  Such repurchases or
exchanges,  if  any,  will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity
requirements,  and  current or future contractual obligations of the Company, if
any,  that  may  directly  or  indirectly  apply  to  such  transactions.

On  November  15,  2001, we acquired all of the common stock of Labhardt Ag, our
Swiss distributor, for total cash consideration, including acquisition costs, of
$5.5  million.  The  acquisition  has  been  accounted  for  as  a purchase and,
accordingly,  the results of operations of Labhardt Ag have been included in our
consolidated  financial  statements  from  November 15, 2001.  The excess of the
purchase  price  over  the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of
$1.3  million  has  been  recorded  as  goodwill.

On  May  14,  2002  we  acquired all of the common stock of Servo Magnetics Inc.
("SMI")  for total consideration, including acquisition costs, of $32.6 million.
Consideration  included  the  issue  of  853,448  shares for fair value of $24.8
million,  with  the balance of the acquisition cost paid in cash.  Subsequent to
the  acquisition, we repaid all SMI's existing bank loans totaling $3.0 million.

The  acquisition  has  been  accounted  for  as  a purchase and accordingly, the
results  of  operations  of SMI have been included in the Company's consolidated
financial  statements  from May 14, 2002.  The excess of the purchase price over
the  fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $1.9 million has been
recorded  as  goodwill.

On  October 2, 2001, we paid $1.4 million as final consideration associated with
the  purchase  of  MAP  on  February  16, 2001.  The amount has been recorded as
goodwill.

On April 26, 2002, we settled our purchase of a 30-acre site at Norwest Business
Park,  located  northwest  of Sydney, Australia.  The acquisition cost was $23.6
million,  including  deferred  payments  of $5.7 million due in October 2002 and
$5.7  million  due in April 2003.  We expect the first building, a manufacturing
facility,  to  be  operational  on this site in December 2003.  New research and
development  and  office  facilities  are  expected  to  be  completed  in 2004.
We  estimate  that  the  building  costs  will  be  approximately $30.0 million.

On  May 8, 2002, we completed a sale and leaseback transaction of our Australian
facility  located at North Ryde in Sydney, Australia.  The property was sold for
$18.5  million  with  a three-year leaseback and a further one-year option.  The
profit before tax on sale of the property of $5.5 million will be amortized over
the  lease  period.  The  cash made available from the sale will be utilized for
the  construction of our new facilities at Norwest Business Park also located in
Sydney,  Australia.

                                   -25-
<PAGE>


On  June 6, 2002, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up
to  4  million shares of its outstanding common stock.  For fiscal year 2002, we
repurchased  290,047  shares  at  a  cost  of  $7.9 million.  We may continue to
repurchase  shares  of  our  common  stock  for  cash  in the open market, or in
negotiated  or  block  transactions,  from  time  to time as market and business
conditions  warrant.

Details  of  contractual  obligations  at  June  30,  2002  are  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                  Payments Due by Period
                                    Less than 1 year  1-3 years  4-5 years  After 5 years
<S>                                 <C>               <C>        <C>        <C>
Long-Term Debt                                     -    123,250          -              -
Operating Leases                               4,326      9,523      1,202              -
Unconditional Purchase Obligations            11,552          -          -              -
Total Contractual Cash Obligations            15,878    132,773      1,202              -
</TABLE>


Details  of  other  commercial  commitments  at  June  30,  2002 are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In $000's                                        Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period
                             Total Amounts -----------------------------------------------------
                                 Committed  Less than 1 year  1-3 years  4-5 years  Over 5 years
                                           -----------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>        <C>               <C>        <C>        <C>
Lines of Credit                          -                 -          -          -             -
Standby Letters of Credit                -                 -          -          -             -
Guarantees(1)                       13,678            11,821        663          -         1,194
Standby Repurchase Obligations           -                 -          -          -             -
Other Commercial Commitments             -                 -          -          -             -
Total Commercial Commitments        13,678            11,821        663          -         1,194
</TABLE>


(1)     The above guarantees relate to guarantees provided by banks.  Guarantees
of $11.8 million relate to deferred payments due on our land purchase at Norwest
and have been recorded as a liability in our financial accounts.  The guarantees
are  secured by cash deposits held with the bank.  The balance of the guarantees
relate  to  guarantees  required  by statutory authorities as a pre-requisite to
developing  our  site  at Norwest and requirements under contractual obligations
with  insurance  companies  transacting  with  our  German  subsidiaries.

The  results of our international operations are affected by changes in exchange
rates  between  currencies.  Changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our
consolidated net revenue and gross profit margins from international operations.
We  are exposed to the risk that the dollar value equivalent of anticipated cash
flows  will be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
We  manage  this  risk  through  foreign  currency  option  contracts.

We  expect to satisfy all of our short term and long term liquidity requirements
through  a  combination  of  cash  on  hand  and cash generated from operations.


CRITICAL  ACCOUNTING  PRINCIPLES  AND  ESTIMATES

In  response  to  the SEC's Release numbers 33-8040 "Cautionary Advice Regarding
Disclosure  About  Critical  Accounting  Policies"  and  33-8056,  "Commission
Statement  about Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results  of  Operations,"  we  have identified the following critical accounting
policies  that  affect  the more significant judgments and estimates used in the
preparation  of  our  financial  statements.  The  preparation  of  financial
statements  in  conformity  with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect
our  reported  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities,  revenues and expenses and
related  disclosures  of contingent assets and liabilities.  On an ongoing basis
we  evaluate  our  estimates,  including those related to allowance for doubtful
accounts,  inventory reserves, warranty obligations, impaired assets, intangible
assets,  income taxes, revenue recognition and contingencies and litigation.  We
state  these accounting policies in the notes to the financial statements and at
relevant  sections  in this discussion and analysis.  The estimates are based on
the  information  that  is  currently  available  to  us  and  on  various other
assumptions  that  we  believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual
results  could  vary  from  those  estimates  under  different  assumptions  or
conditions.

                                   -26-
<PAGE>

We  believe  that  the  following  critical  accounting policies affect the more
significant  judgments  and  estimates  used in the preparation of our financial
statements:

(1)  Allowance  for  Doubtful  Accounts.  We  maintain an allowance for doubtful
accounts  for  estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to
make  required  payments,  which  results in bad debt expense.  We determine the
adequacy  of  this  allowance  by  continually  evaluating  individual  customer
receivables,  considering  customer's  financial  condition,  credit history and
current  economic  conditions.  If the financial condition of our customers were
to  deteriorate,  resulting  in an impairment of their ability to make payments,
additional  allowances  may  be  required.

(2)  Inventory  Adjustments.   Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market
and  are determined by the first-in, first-out method.  We review the components
of  inventory  on  a  regular  basis for excess, obsolete and impaired inventory
based  on  estimated  future  usage  and  sales.  The likelihood of any material
inventory  write-downs  is  dependent  on changes in competitive conditions, new
product  introductions  by  us  or our competitors, or rapid changes in customer
demand.

(3)  Valuation  of  Goodwill,  Intangible  and Other Long-Lived Assets.   We use
assumptions  in  establishing the carrying value, fair value and estimated lives
of  our long-lived assets and goodwill.  The criteria used for these evaluations
include  management's  estimate  of  the  asset's continuing ability to generate
positive  income  from  operations  and  positive  cash  flow  in future periods
compared  to  the  carrying  value  of  the  asset,  as  well  as  the strategic
significance  of  any  identifiable intangible asset in our business objectives.
If assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment recognized is the amount
by  which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets.
Useful  lives  and related amortization or depreciation expense are based on our
estimate  of  the  period that the assets will generate revenues or otherwise be
used  by the Company.  Factors that would influence the likelihood of a material
change  in  our  reported  results  include  significant  changes in the asset's
ability  to generate positive cash flow, loss of legal ownership or title to the
asset,  a  significant  decline  in  the economic and competitive environment on
which  the  asset  depends,  significant  changes  in  our  strategic  business
objectives,  utilization  of the asset, and a significant change in the economic
and/or  political  conditions  in  certain  countries.

(4)  Valuation of Deferred Income Taxes.   Valuation allowances are established,
when  necessary,  to  reduce  deferred  tax  assets to the amount expected to be
realized.  The  likelihood  of  a material change in our expected realization of
these  assets  is  dependent on future taxable income, our ability to deduct tax
loss  carryforwards  against future taxable income, the effectiveness of our tax
planning  and strategies among the various tax jurisdictions that we operate in,
and  any  significant  changes  in  the  tax  treatment received on our business
combinations.

(5)  Provision  for  Warranty.   We  provide  for  the estimated cost of product
warranties  at  the  time the related revenue is recognized.  The amount of this
provision  is  determined  by  using  a  financial  model  which  takes  into
consideration actual historical expenses and potential risks associated with the
Company's  different  products.  This  financial model is then used to calculate
the  future  probable expenses related to warranty and the required level of the
warranty  provision.  Although  we  engage  in  product improvement programs and
processes,  our  warranty  obligation  is  affected by product failure rates and
costs incurred to correct those product failures.  Should actual product failure
rates  or  estimated  costs  to  repair  those  product failures differ from our
estimates,  revisions  to  our  estimated  warranty provision would be required.

                                   -27-
<PAGE>


NEW  ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 146, Accounting for Restructuring
Costs.  SFAS  146  applies  to costs associated with an exit activity (including
restructuring)  or  with  a disposal of long-lived assets.  Those activities can
include  eliminating  or  reducing  product  lines,  terminating  employees  and
contracts,  and  relocating  plant  facilities  or personnel.  Under SFAS 146, a
company  will  record a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal
activity  when  that  liability  is  incurred and can be measured at fair value.
SFAS  146  will  require  a  company  to disclose information about its exit and
disposal  activities, the related costs, and changes in those costs in the notes
to  the interim and annual financial statements that include the period in which
an exit activity is initiated and in any subsequent period until the activity is
completed.  SFAS  146 is effective prospectively for exit or disposal activities
initiated after December 31, 2002, with earlier adoption encouraged.  Under SFAS
146,  a  company  may not restate its previously issued financial statements and
the new Statement grandfathers the accounting for liabilities that a company had
previously  recorded  under  Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 94-3.  The Company
believes  that  it will not have a material impact on the results of operations,
financial  position  and  liquidity  of  the  Company.

The  FASB  issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64,
Amendment  of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections as of April 2002,
which  is  effective  for  fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002, but may be
adopted  early.  SFAS  145  rescinds SFAS 4 and SFAS 64, which required that all
gains  and  losses  from  debt  extinguishment  of  debt  be  aggregated, and if
material,  classified  as  an extraordinary item.  As a result, gains and losses
from debt extinguishment are to be classified as extraordinary only if they meet
the  criteria set forth in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30, Reporting
the  Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a
Business,  and  Extraordinary,  Unusual  and  Infrequently  Occurring Events and
Transactions.  SFAS 145 also requires that sale-leaseback accounting be used for
capital  lease  modifications  with  economic  effects similar to sale-leaseback
transactions.  The  Company  has  elected  to  early  adopt SFAS No. 145 and has
classified  gains  from  the  extinguishment  of  debt  as  other  income in its
Consolidated  Statements  of  Income.

In  August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."  For long-lived assets to be held and used, SFAS
No.  144 retains the requirements of SFAS No. 121 to (a) recognize an impairment
loss  only  if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable from
its undiscounted cash flows and (b) measure an impairment loss as the difference
between  the  carrying  amount and fair value.  Further, SFAS No. 144 eliminates
the  requirement  to  allocate  goodwill  to  long-lived assets to be tested for
impairment,  describes  a  probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach to
deal  with  situations  in  which  alternative  courses of action to recover the
carrying  amount  of  a  long-lived  asset are under consideration or a range is
estimated  for  the  amount  of  possible  future  cash flows, and establishes a
"primary-asset"  approach  to  determine  the  cash flow estimation period.  For
long-lived  assets  to be disposed of other than by sale (e.g. assets abandoned,
exchanged  or  distributed  to owners in a spin-off), SFAS No. 144 requires that
such  assets  be  considered  held  and  used  until  disposed  of.  Further, an
impairment  loss  should  be  recognized at the date an asset is exchanged for a
similar  productive asset or distributed to owners in a spin-off if the carrying
amount  exceeds  its  fair  value.  The Company believes that it will not have a
material  impact  on the results of operations, financial position and liquidity
of  the  Company.

                                   -28-
<PAGE>


In  July  2001,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.  As  allowed  under  the  Standard,  the  Company  has  adopted SFAS 142
effective  July  1, 2001.  SFAS 142 requires goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite  useful  lives  to  no longer be amortized, but instead be tested for
impairment  at  least  annually.

With  the  adoption  of  SFAS  142,  the Company reassessed the useful lives and
residual  values  of  all  acquired  intangible  assets  to  make  any necessary
amortization  period  adjustments.  Based  on that assessment, only goodwill was
determined to have an indefinite useful life and no adjustments were made to the
amortization  period  or  residual  values  of  other  intangible  assets.

In  accordance with SFAS 142 the Company has completed its initial assessment of
goodwill  impairment.  The  results  of  the  review  indicated that no impaired
goodwill  currently  exists.

Effective  July  1,  2001,  the  Company  adopted  SFAS  No.  141,  "Business
Combinations".  SFAS 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used
for  all  business  combinations  initiated  after  June  30,  2001.

In  June  2001,  the  FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,"  which  requires  that  the fair value of a liability for an asset
retirement  obligation  be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a
reasonable  estimate of fair value can be made.  The associated asset retirement
costs  would  be  capitalized  as  part of the carrying amount of the long-lived
asset  and depreciated over the life of the asset.  The liability is accreted at
the  end of each period through charges to operating expense.  If the obligation
is settled for other than the carrying amount of the liability, the Company will
recognize  a  gain  or  loss  on settlement.  The provisions of SFAS No. 143 are
effective  for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002.  The Company believes
that  it will not have a material impact on the results of operations, financial
position  and  liquidity  of  the  Company.




ITEM  7A  QUANTITATIVE  AND  QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT MARKET AND BUSINESS
RISKS


FOREIGN  CURRENCY  MARKET  RISK

Our  functional  currency  is  the U.S. dollar, although we transact business in
various  foreign  currencies including a number of major European currencies, as
well  as  the  Australian  dollar. We have significant foreign currency exposure
through  both  our  Australian  manufacturing activities and international sales
operations.

We  have established a foreign currency hedging program using purchased currency
options  to hedge foreign-currency-denominated financial assets, liabilities and
manufacturing  expenditure.  The goal of this hedging program is to economically
guarantee  or  lock  in  the  exchange  rates  on our foreign currency exposures
denominated  in Euro's and the Australian dollar.  Under this program, increases
or  decreases in our foreign-currency-denominated financial assets, liabilities,
and  firm  commitments  are  partially offset by gains and losses on the hedging
instruments.

                                   -29-
<PAGE>


The  table  below  provides  information (in US dollars) on our foreign-currency
denominated  financial  assets  by  legal  entity  functional  currency:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                               Foreign Currency Financial Assets
                                        AUD          USD         EUR         GBP         SGD       NZD      SEK       CHF
<S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>
AUD Functional Currency Entities:
Assets                              $         -  24,118,963   7,317,495   2,582,023   1,481,516  180,690  505,691    837,331
Liability                                     -  (1,793,640)          -  (2,748,233)          -        -        -          -
Net Total                           $         -  22,325,323   7,317,495    (166,210)  1,481,516  180,690  505,691    837,331

USD Functional Currency Entities:
Assets                              $17,297,437           -           -           -           -        -        -          -
Liability                                     -           -           -           -           -        -        -          -
Net Total                           $17,297,437           -           -           -           -        -        -          -

Euro Functional Currency Entities:
Assets                              $ 4,773,000      65,504           -           -           -        -        -  1,200,726
Liability                                     -      (3,740)          -           -           -        -        -          -
Net Total                           $ 4,773,000      61,764           -           -           -        -        -  1,200,726
</TABLE>


The  table  below  provides  information  about  our foreign currency derivative
financial  instruments   and  presents  such  information  in  U.S.  dollar
equivalents.  The  table  summarizes information on instruments and transactions
that  are  sensitive  to  foreign  currency  exchange  rates,  including foreign
currency  call  options  held at June 30, 2002.  The table presents the notional
amounts  and  weighted  average exchange rates by contractual maturity dates for
our  foreign  currency derivative financial instruments.  These notional amounts
generally  are  used  to  calculate  payments  to be exchanged under the options
contracts.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               Fair Value Assets / (Liabilities)
(In thousands except exchange rates)    FY 2003           FY 2004           Total                As of June 30,
                                                                                                   2002   2001
<S>                                 <C>                   <C>               <C>                   <C>     <C>
Foreign Exchange Call Options
(Receive AUS$/Pay U.S.$)
Option amount                       $             54,000  $         66,000  $            120,000  $2,341  $ 577
Average contractual exchange rate   AUS $1 = USD 0.549    AUS$1=USD 0.591   AUS $1 = USD 0.571

(Receive AUS$/Pay Euro)
Option amount                       $             40,473                 -  $             40,473  $  423  $  20
Average contractual exchange rate   AUS $1 = Euro 0.592                     AUS $1 = Euro 0.592
</TABLE>


INTEREST  RATE  RISK

We  are  exposed to risk associated with changes in interest rates affecting the
return  on  investments.

At  June  30,  2002, we maintained a portion of our cash and cash equivalents in
financial  instruments  with  original  maturities  of three months or less.  We
maintain  a  short-term investment portfolio containing financial instruments in
which  the  majority  have  original maturities of greater than three months but
less  than twelve months.  These financial instruments, principally comprised of
corporate  obligations,  are  subject  to interest rate risk and will decline in
value  if  interest  rates  increase.  A  hypothetical 100 basis point change in
interest rates during the twelve months ended June 30, 2002, would have resulted
in  approximately $0.3 million change in pretax income. We do not use derivative
financial  instruments  in  our  investment  portfolio.

                                   -30-
<PAGE>


FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS

This  report  on  Form  10-K  contains  or  may  contain certain forward-looking
statements  and  information  that are based on the beliefs of our management as
well  as  estimates and assumptions made by, and information currently available
to  our  management.  The  words  "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate,"
"plan,"  "future"  and  other  similar  expressions  generally  identify
forward-looking  statements,  including, in particular, statements regarding the
development  and  approval  of  new  products  and  product applications, market
expansion,  pending  litigation  and  the  development  of  new  markets for the
Company's  products,  such  as  cardiovascular  and  stroke  markets.  These
forward-looking  statements  are  made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of
the  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  You are cautioned not to
place  undue  reliance on these forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking
statements  reflect  the views of our management at the time such statements are
made  and  are  subject  to  a  number  of  risks,  uncertainties, estimates and
assumptions,  including, without limitation, and in addition to those identified
in the text surrounding such statements, those identified below and elsewhere in
this  report.  In  addition,  important  factors  to consider in evaluating such
forward-looking  statements include changes or developments in social, economic,
market,  legal  or  regulatory  circumstances, changes in our business or growth
strategy  or an inability to execute our strategy due to changes in our industry
or  the  economy  generally,  the  emergence  of new or growing competitors, the
actions  or  omissions  of  third  parties,  including  suppliers,  customers,
competitors  and governmental authorities, and various other factors. Should any
one  or  more  of  these  risks  or uncertainties materialize, or the underlying
estimates  or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary significantly
from  those  expressed  in  such forward-looking statements, and there can be no
assurance  that  the forward-looking statements contained in this report will in
fact  occur.


RISK  FACTORS

The risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition or
results  of  operations  include  the  following:

OUR  INABILITY  TO  COMPETE  SUCCESSFULLY  IN OUR MARKETS MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS.

The markets for our SDB products are highly competitive and are characterized by
frequent  product  improvements  and evolving technology. Our ability to compete
successfully depends, in part, on our ability to develop innovative new products
and to be the first to market with those products. The development of innovative
new  products  by  our competitors or the discovery of alternative treatments or
potential  cures  for the conditions that our products treat could result in our
products  becoming  noncompetitive  or  obsolete.

Additionally,  some  of  our  competitors  have  greater financial, research and
development,  manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. The past several
years have seen a trend towards consolidation in the health care industry and in
the  markets  for  our  products. Industry consolidation could result in greater
competition if our competitors combine their resources or if our competitors are
acquired  by  other companies with greater resources than ours. This competition
could  increase  pressure  on us to reduce the selling prices of our products or
could  cause  us  to increase our spending on research and development and sales
and  marketing.  If  we  are unable to develop innovative new products, maintain
competitive  pricing,  and  offer  products  that  consumers  perceive  to be as
reliable  as those of our competitors, our sales or gross margins could decrease
which  would  harm  our  business.

                                   -31-
<PAGE>


OUR  BUSINESS  DEPENDS  ON  OUR ABILITY TO MARKET EFFECTIVELY TO DEALERS OF HOME
HEALTH  CARE  PRODUCTS  AND  SLEEP  CLINICS.

We  market  our  products  primarily  to  home  health care dealers and to sleep
clinics  that  diagnose  OSA  and  other  sleep disorders.  We believe that home
health  care  dealers  and  sleep clinics play a significant role in determining
which  brand  of product a patient will use.  For example, in the United States,
when  a physician at a sleep clinic prescribes the use of a product, the patient
typically  purchases  the product from a home health care dealer.  The physician
may  or  may  not prescribe a specific brand of product.  If a specific brand is
prescribed,  we  believe  the brand prescribed depends upon the brand of product
that  is  used  in the sleep clinic.  If a specific brand is not prescribed, the
home  health  care dealer may recommend a specific brand.  Occasionally, even if
the  physician  prescribes  a  specific  brand,  a  home  health care dealer may
substitute  a competitive product for the patient.  We have limited resources to
market  to  the  more than 2,000 U.S. sleep clinics and the more than 4,000 home
health  care  dealer  branch  locations,  most  of  which use, sell or recommend
several  brands  of  products.  In  addition,  home  health  care  dealers  have
experienced  price  pressures  as  government and third-party reimbursement have
declined  for  home  care  products,  and home health care dealers are requiring
price  discounts  and  longer periods of time to pay for products purchased from
us.  We  cannot  assure  you  that  sleep  clinic  physicians  will  continue to
prescribe  our  products,  or that home health care dealers or patients will not
substitute  competing  products  when a prescription specifying our products has
been  written.  The  success  of  our  business depends on our ability to market
effectively to home health care dealers and sleep clinics and to ensure that our
products  are  properly  marketed  and  sold  by  these  third  parties.

We  intend  to  expand  our marketing activities to target the population with a
predisposition  to  SDB  as  well as primary care physicians and specialists. We
cannot  assure you that these marketing efforts will be successful in increasing
awareness  of  our  products.

IF  WE  ARE  UNABLE  TO SUPPORT OUR CONTINUED GROWTH, OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER.

We  have  experienced  rapid and substantial growth. As we continue to grow, the
complexity  of  our  operations  increases,  placing  greater  demands  on  our
management.  Our  ability  to  manage  our  growth  effectively depends upon our
ability  to  implement  and  improve  our  financial  and management information
systems  on  a  timely  basis  and  to  effect  other  changes  in our business.
Unexpected  difficulties  during  expansion,  the  failure to attract and retain
qualified  employees,  the  failure  to  successfully  replace  or  upgrade  our
management  information systems, the failure to manage costs or our inability to
respond  effectively  to  growth  or  plan  for future expansion could cause our
growth  to  stop.  If  we  fail to manage our growth, our business could suffer.

IF  WE  FAIL TO INTEGRATE OUR RECENT ACQUISITION IN GERMANY WITH OUR OPERATIONS,
OUR  BUSINESS  COULD  SUFFER.

On  February  16, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of MAP located
near  Munich,  Germany.  We  are  currently  in  the  process of integrating our
operations  with those of MAP. The integration requires significant efforts from
each  company.  We may find it difficult to integrate the operations of MAP. MAP
personnel  may  leave  MAP  because  of  the  acquisition  and  MAP  licensees,
distributors  or  suppliers may terminate their arrangements with MAP, or demand
amended terms to these arrangements. Additionally, our management may have their
attention  diverted  while trying to integrate the two companies. This diversion
or  these  difficulties in integration could have an adverse impact on us. If we
are not able to successfully integrate the operations of MAP, we may not realize
the  anticipated  benefits  of  the  MAP  acquisition.

                                   -32-
<PAGE>


WE  MANUFACTURE  SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR PRODUCTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND
SELL A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR PRODUCTS IN NON-U.S. MARKETS, SUBJECTING US TO
VARIOUS  RISKS  RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT
OUR  OVERALL  PROFITABILITY.

Sales  outside North and Latin America accounted for approximately 51%, 48%, and
46%  of  our net revenues in fiscal years 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.  We
expect  that  sales within these areas will account for approximately 50% of our
net  revenues in the foreseeable future.  Our sales outside of North America and
our operations in Europe, Australia and Asia are subject to several difficulties
and  risks  that  are  separate  and distinct from those we face in our domestic
operations,  including:

-     fluctuations  in  currency  exchange  rates;
-     tariffs  and  other  trade  barriers;
-     compliance  with  foreign  medical  device  manufacturing  regulations;
-     reduction  in  third  party  payer  reimbursement  for  our  products;
-     inability  to  obtain  import  licenses;
-     changes  in  trade  policies  and  in  domestic  and foreign tax policies;
-     possible  changes  in  export  or  import  restrictions;  and
-     the  modification  or  introduction  of  other  governmental policies with
potentially  adverse  effects.

FLUCTUATIONS  IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES COULD RESULT IN DECLINES IN OUR
REPORTED  SALES  AND  EARNINGS.

Since  our  international  sales  and a significant portion of our manufacturing
costs  are denominated in local currencies and not in U.S. dollars, our reported
sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We had
foreign  currency  transaction  losses  in  recent  periods and may have further
losses  in  the future. We expect that international sales will continue to be a
significant  portion  of  our  business  and  that  a significant portion of our
manufacturing  costs  will  continue  to  be  denominated in Australian dollars.

GOVERNMENT  AND  PRIVATE  INSURANCE  PLANS  MAY  NOT  REIMBURSE PATIENTS FOR OUR
PRODUCTS,  WHICH  COULD  RESULT IN REDUCTIONS IN SALES OR SELLING PRICES FOR OUR
PRODUCTS.

Our  ability  to  sell our products depends in large part on the extent to which
reimbursement  for  the  cost  of our products will be available from government
health  administration  authorities,  private  health  insurers  and  other
organizations.  These third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices
charged  for  medical  products  and  services.  Therefore, even if a product is
approved  for marketing, we cannot assure you that reimbursement will be allowed
for  such  product  or  that  the  reimbursement  amount will be adequate or, if
adequate,  will  not subsequently be reduced. For example, in some markets, such
as  Spain,  France  and Germany, government reimbursement is currently available
for  purchase  or  rental  of our products but is subject to constraints such as
price  controls  or  unit sales limitations. In other markets, such as Australia
and  the  United  Kingdom,  there  is  currently limited or no reimbursement for
devices  that  treat  sleep disordered breathing related respiratory conditions.
Additionally,  future  legislation  or  regulation  concerning  the  health care
industry  or  third  party  or  governmental  coverage  and  reimbursement,
particularly, legislation or regulation limiting consumers' reimbursement rights
may  harm  our  business. As we continue to develop new products, those products
will generally not qualify for reimbursement, if at all, until they are approved
for  marketing.  In  the  United  States, we sell our products primarily to home
health  care  dealers  and  to  sleep  clinics.  We  do not file claims and bill
governmental  programs  and  other third party payors directly for reimbursement
for our products. However, we are still subject to laws and regulations relating
to  governmental  reimbursement  programs,  particularly  Medicaid and Medicare.

                                   -33-
<PAGE>


In  particular,  the  federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits persons from knowingly
and  willfully  soliciting,  receiving,  offering  or  providing  remuneration,
directly  or  indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the
furnishing,  recommending  or arranging for a good or service, for which payment
may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid
programs.  The  government  has  interpreted  this  law  broadly to apply to the
marketing  and  sales activities of manufacturers and distributors like us. Many
states  have  adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Law. We are also
subject  to  other  federal  and state fraud laws applicable to payment from any
third  party  payer.  These  laws  prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully
filing  false  claims  or  executing  a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit
program,  including  private  third  party  payors.  These  laws  may  apply  to
manufacturers  and distributors who provide information on coverage, coding, and
reimbursement  of  their products to persons who do bill third party payors. Any
violation  of  these  laws  and  regulations  could result in civil and criminal
penalties,  including  fines.

COMPLYING  WITH  FDA  AND  OTHER  REGULATIONS IS AN EXPENSIVE AND TIME-CONSUMING
PROCESS,  AND  ANY  FAILURE  TO  COMPLY  COULD  RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL PENALTIES.

We  are  subject  to various federal, state, local and international regulations
regarding  the  testing, manufacture, distribution, marketing, promotion, record
keeping and reporting of our products. In particular, our failure to comply with
FDA  regulations  could  result in, among other things, recalls of our products,
substantial  fines  and/or  criminal  charges  against  us  and  our  employees.

PRODUCT  SALES,  INTRODUCTIONS  OR MODIFICATIONS MAY BE DELAYED OR CANCELED AS A
RESULT OF THE FDA OR SIMILAR FOREIGN REGULATIONS, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR SALES TO
DECLINE.

Before  we can market or sell a new medical device in the United States, we must
obtain  FDA  clearance,  which  can  be a lengthy and time-consuming process. We
generally  receive  clearance  from the FDA to market our products in the United
States  under  Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or our
products  are exempt from the 510(k) clearance process. We have modified some of
our  510(k) approved products without submitting new 510(k) notices, which we do
not believe were required. However, if the FDA disagrees with us and requires us
to  submit  new 510(k) notifications for modifications to our existing products,
we  may  be  required  to  stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the
510(k)  notification.  Any  new  product  introduction  or  existing  product
modification  could  be  subjected to a lengthier, more rigorous FDA examination
process. For example, in certain cases we may need to conduct clinical trials of
a  new  product  prior  to  submitting  a 510(k) notice. Additionally, we may be
required  to  obtain  premarket  approvals for our products. The requirements of
these more rigorous processes could delay product introductions and increase the
costs associated with FDA compliance. Marketing and sale of our products outside
the  United  States are also subject to regulatory clearances and approvals, and
if  we  fail  to  obtain  these regulatory approvals, our sales could suffer. We
cannot  assure  you  that  any  new  products  we  develop will receive required
regulatory  approvals  from  U.S.  or  foreign  regulatory  agencies.

OFF  LABEL  MARKETING  OF  OUR  PRODUCTS  COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL PENALTIES.

Clearance  under  Section  510(k) only permits us to market our products for the
uses  indicated  on  the  labeling cleared by the FDA. We may request additional
label  indications for our current products, and the FDA may deny those requests
outright,  require  additional expensive clinical data to support any additional
indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared products as
a  condition  of  clearance.  If  the  FDA  determines that we have marketed our
products  for  off label use, we could be subject to fines, injunctions or other
penalties.

                                   -34-
<PAGE>


DISRUPTIONS  IN  THE SUPPLY OF COMPONENTS FROM OUR SINGLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS COULD
RESULT  IN  A  SIGNIFICANT  REDUCTION  IN  SALES  AND  PROFITABILITY.

We  purchase  uniquely  configured components for our devices from single-source
suppliers.  We  cannot  assure  you that a replacement supplier would be able to
configure  its  components  for  our  devices  on  a  timely  basis  or,  in the
alternative,  that  we would be able to reconfigure our devices to integrate the
replacement part. A reduction or stoppage in supply while a replacement supplier
reconfigures  its  components,  or  while  we reconfigure our components for the
replacement  part,  would  limit  our  ability to manufacture our devices, which
could  result  in  a significant reduction in sales and profitability. We cannot
assure  you  that our inventories would be adequate to meet our production needs
during  any  prolonged  interruption  of  supply.

OUR  INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY  MAY  NOT PROTECT OUR PRODUCTS, AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY
INFRINGE  ON  THE  INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY  RIGHTS  OF  THIRD  PARTIES.

We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements
to  protect  our  intellectual  property.  Our  success depends, in part, on our
ability  to  obtain and maintain United States and foreign patent protection for
our  products, their uses and our processes to preserve our trade secrets and to
operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We have a
number  of  pending  patent applications, and we do not know whether any patents
will  issue  from  any  of these applications. We do not know whether any of the
claims  in  our  issued patents or pending applications will provide us with any
significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially
valuable. Legal standards regarding the validity of patents and the proper scope
of  their  claims  are  still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy
regarding  the  valid  breadth of claims. Additionally, there may be third party
patents,  patent  applications  and  other intellectual property relevant to our
products and technology which are not known to us and that block or compete with
our  products.

We  face  the  risks  that:

-     third  parties  will  infringe  our  intellectual  property  rights;
-     our  non-disclosure  agreements  will  be  breached;
-     we  will  not  have  adequate  remedies  for  infringement;
-     our  trade  secrets will become known to or independently developed by our
competitors;  or
-     any  third parties will be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our
products  or  require us to license and pay fees or royalties in order for us to
be  able  to  market  some  of  our  products.

We  are  currently engaged in litigation relating to the enforcement and defense
of  a  number  of our patents. Additional litigation may be necessary to enforce
patents  issued  to  us,  to  protect our proprietary rights, or to defend third
party  claims  that  we  have  infringed  upon proprietary rights of others. The
defense  and  prosecution  of  patent claims, including these pending claims, as
well  as  participation  in  other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and
time consuming, even in those instances in which the outcome is favorable to us.
If  the outcome of any litigation or proceeding brought against us were adverse,
we  could  be  subject  to  significant  liabilities  to third parties, could be
required  to  obtain  licenses  from third parties or could be required to cease
sales  of  the  affected  products.  Additionally,  the  laws  regarding  the
enforceability of patents vary from country to country, and we cannot assure you
that  any  patent  issues we face will be uniformly resolved, or that local laws
will  provide  us  with  consistent  rights  and  benefits.

                                   -35-
<PAGE>


WE  ARE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT MAY EXCEED THE SCOPE AND AMOUNT
OF  OUR  INSURANCE  COVERAGE,  WHICH  WOULD EXPOSE US TO LIABILITY FOR UNINSURED
CLAIMS.

We  are subject to potential product liability claims as a result of the design,
manufacture  and  marketing  of  medical  devices.  Any  product liability claim
brought  against  us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our
product  liability insurance rates. In addition, we would have to pay any amount
awarded  by  a court in excess of our policy limits. Our insurance policies have
various  exclusions, and thus we may be subject to a product liability claim for
which  we  have  no  insurance  coverage,  in which case, we may have to pay the
entire  amount  of  any  award. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage
will  be  adequate  or that all claims brought against us will be covered by our
insurance.  Insurance  varies  in  cost  and  can be difficult to obtain, and we
cannot  assure  you  that  we  will be able to obtain insurance in the future on
terms  acceptable  to us or at all. A successful product liability claim brought
against  us  in  excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay
substantial  amounts,  which  could  harm  our  business.

OUR  BUSINESS  COULD  SUFFER  IF  WE  LOSE  THE  SERVICES  OF KEY MEMBERS OF OUR
MANAGEMENT.

We  are  dependent  upon  the  continued  services  of key members of our senior
management  and  a  limited number of key employees and consultants. The loss of
the  services  of  any  one of these individuals could significantly disrupt our
operations.  Additionally,  our future success will depend, among other factors,
on  our  ability  to  continue  to  hire  and  retain  the  necessary  qualified
scientific,  technical  and  managerial personnel. We compete for such personnel
with  numerous  other  companies,  academic  institutions  and  organizations.

OUR  QUARTERLY  OPERATING  RESULTS  ARE  SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATION FOR A VARIETY OF
REASONS.

Our  operating  results have, from time to time, fluctuated on a quarterly basis
and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. These fluctuations may
result  from  a  number  of  factors,  including:


-     the  introduction  of  new  products  by  us  or  our  competitors;

-     the  geographic  mix  of  product  sales;

-     the  success  of  our  marketing  efforts  in  new  regions;

-     changes  in  third  party  reimbursement;

-     timing  of  regulatory  clearances  and  approvals;

-     timing  of  orders  by  distributors;

-     expenditures  incurred  for  research  and  development;

-     competitive  pricing  in  different  regions;

-     seasonality;

-     the  cost  and  effect  of  promotional  and  marketing  programs;  and

-     the  effect  of  foreign  currency  transaction  gains  or  losses.

IF  A NATURAL OR MAN MADE DISASTER STRIKES OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES, WE WILL
BE  UNABLE  TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS FOR A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF TIME AND OUR
SALES  WILL  DECLINE.

We  manufacture  a  significant  portion  of  our  products in our facilities in
Australia.  These  facilities  and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce
our  products would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time
to  repair  or  replace.  The  facilities may be affected by natural or man made
disasters  and in the event it was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to
rely  on  third  party  manufacturers.  Although  we believe we possess adequate
insurance  for  damage  to  our property and the disruption of our business from
casualties,  such  insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential
losses  and  may  not  continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at
all.

                                   -36-
<PAGE>


DELAWARE  LAW,  PROVISIONS  IN OUR CHARTER AND OUR SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN COULD
MAKE  THE  ACQUISITION  OF  OUR  COMPANY  BY  ANOTHER  COMPANY  MORE  DIFFICULT.

Provisions  of  our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying
or  preventing  changes in control or management which might be beneficial to us
or  our  securityholders.  In particular, our board of directors is divided into
three  classes,  serving  for  staggered  three-year  terms.  Because  of  this
classification  it  will require at least two annual meetings to elect directors
constituting  a  majority  of  our  board  of  directors.

Additionally,  our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000
shares  of  preferred  stock  and  to  determine the price, rights, preferences,
privileges  and  restrictions,  including voting rights, of those shares without
further  vote or action by the stockholders.  Under our stockholder rights plan,
we  have  also  issued  purchase  rights to the holders of our common stock that
entitle  those  holders  to purchase our Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock  at a discount, under certain circumstances.  The rights of the holders of
our  common  stock  will  be  subject  to, and may be adversely affected by, the
rights  of  the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.
The  issuance  of  preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or
preventing  a  change  in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a
premium  over  the market price of our common stock and may adversely affect the
market  price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders
of  our  common  stock.

YOU  MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ENFORCE THE JUDGMENTS OF U.S. COURTS AGAINST SOME OF OUR
ASSETS  OR  OFFICERS  AND  DIRECTORS

A  substantial  portion  of  our  assets  are located outside the United States.
Additionally,  two of our seven directors and three of our eight officers reside
outside the United States, along with all or a substantial portion of the assets
of  these  persons. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to enforce
judgments  of U.S. courts relating to any liabilities under U.S. securities laws
against  our  assets,  those persons or their assets.  In addition, we have been
advised  by  our  Australian counsel that some doubt exists as to the ability of
investors to pursue claims based on U.S. securities laws against these assets or
these  persons  in  Australian  courts.

The  information  contained  in this section is not intended to be an exhaustive
description  of  the  risks and uncertainties inherent in our business or in our
strategic  plans.  Please  see Item 1 "Business" and Item 3 "Legal Proceedings".
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

ITEM  8     CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA
a)     Index  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
                                                                                                  Page
                                                                                                  ----
<S>                                                                                               <C>
Independent Auditors' Report                                                                      F1
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2002 and 2001                                          F2
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000                F3
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000  F4
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000            F5
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                        F6
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves                                      42
</TABLE>

                                   -37-
<PAGE>


b)     Supplementary  Data

Quarterly  Financial  Information  (unaudited).  The  quarterly  results for the
years  ended  June  30, 2002 and 2001 are summarized below (in thousands, except
per  share  amounts):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    First     Second    Third     Fourth    Fiscal
2002                                Quarter   Quarter   Quarter   Quarter   Year
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>

Net revenues                        $ 46,129  $ 48,924  $ 52,776   $ 56,247  $204,076
Gross profit                          30,833    31,837    33,771     36,808   133,249
Net income                             8,538     8,779    10,379      9,810    37,506

Basic earnings per share            $   0.27  $   0.27  $   0.32   $   0.30  $   1.17
Diluted earnings per share          $   0.25  $   0.26  $   0.31   $   0.29  $   1.10


                                    First     Second     Third     Fourth     Fiscal
2001                                Quarter   Quarter    Quarter   Quarter    Year
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net revenues                        $ 31,082  $ 34,366  $ 42,680   $ 47,028  $155,156
Gross profit                          21,087    23,021    28,923     31,748   104,779
Net income (loss)                      6,580     6,898   (10,194)     8,346    11,630

Basic earnings (loss) per share     $   0.21  $   0.22    ($0.33)  $   0.27  $   0.37
Diluted earnings (loss) per share   $   0.20  $   0.21    ($0.30)  $   0.25  $   0.35
</TABLE>

NB.  Per  share amounts for each quarter are computed independently, and, due to
the  computation  formula,  the sum of the four quarters may not equal the year.

ITEM  9     CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

ITEM  10     DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

Incorporated by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement for our November 11,
2002,  meeting  of  stockholders,  which  will  be filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  after  June  30,  2002.

On  August  21,  2002,  Dana  Voien  was  appointed  Senior  Vice President, New
Business,  Marketing  and  Clinical  Education  Affairs  and replaced Dr Deirdre
Stewart  as an Officer of the Company.  Dr Stewart has been appointed to the new
position  of  Vice  President,  Strategic  Clinical  Initiatives.

On  September  1,  2002,  David  Pendarvis  was appointed Vice President, Global
General  Counsel  and an Officer of the Company.  Norman DeWitt, ResMed's former
General  Counsel  and  former officer, will be leaving full-time employment with
ResMed  by  the  end  of  this  calendar  year.

ITEM  11     EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement for our November 11,
2002,  meeting  of  stockholders,  which  will  be filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  after  June  30,  2002.

                                   -38-
<PAGE>


ITEM  12       SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement for our November 11,
2002,  meeting  of  stockholders,  which  will  be filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  after  June  30,  2002.

ITEM  13       CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS
No  material  transactions.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14       EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS
ON  FORM  8-K

     a)     The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:
1.     CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SCHEDULE
     The  consolidated  financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries are set forth in the "Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.
2.     EXHIBITS
2.1     Sale  and  Assignment  Agreement,  dated as of February 16, 2001 between
ResMed  Inc,  ResMed  Beteiligungs  GmbH  and  the  shareholders  of  MAP
Medizin-Technologie  GmbH*
2.2     Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 14, 2002 among ResMed Inc.,
Servo  Magnetics  Acquisition  Inc.,  Servo Magnetics Incorporated and Mr Leslie
Hoffman.
3.1     Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended**
3.2     By-laws  of  Registrant**
4.1     Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock**
4.2     Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997***
4.3     Indenture  dated  as  of  June 20, 2001, between ResMed Inc and American
Stock  Transfer  &  Trust  Company******
4.4     Registration  Rights Agreement dated as of June 20, 2001, by and between
ResMed  Inc.,  Merrill  Lynch  &  Co.,  Merrill  Lynch,  Pierce,  Fenner & Smith
Incorporated,  Deutsche  Banc  Alex Brown Inc., William Blair & Company, L.L.C.,
Macquarie  Bank  Limited  and  UBS  Warburg  LLC******
4.5     Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated as of May 14, 2002 between ResMed
Inc.,  and  Mr  Leslie  Hoffman
10.1     1995  Stock  Option  Plan**
10.2     1997  Equity  Participation  Plan****
10.3     Licensing Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed Limited
dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended**
10.4     Consulting  Agreement  between  Colin  Sullivan  and  ResMed  Limited
effective  from  1  January  1998*****
10.5     Loan  Agreement  between  the  Australian  Trade  Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994**

                                   -39-
<PAGE>


ITEM 14       EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS
ON  FORM  8-K (CONTINUED)

10.6     Lease  for 10121 Carroll Canyon Road, San Diego CA 92131-1109, USA*****
10.7     Sale and Leaseback Agreements for 97 Waterloo Rd, North Ryde, Australia
10.8     Employment  Agreement dated as of May 14, 2002, between Servo Magnetics
Acquisition  Inc.,  and  Mr  Leslie  Hoffman.
10.9     Agreement  for  the  purchase  of Lot 6001, Norwest Boulevarde, Norwest
Business  Park,  Baulkham  Hills,  Australia
11.1     Computation  of  Earnings  per  Common  Share
21.1     Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1     Independent  Auditors'  Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule

*Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated March 2,
2001.
**Incorporated  by  reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
***Incorporated  by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
8-A12G  filed  on  April  25,  1997.
****Incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Registrant's  1997  Proxy  Statement.
*****Incorporated  by  reference  to  the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K dated
June  30,  1998.
******Incorporated  by  reference  to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K dated
June  30,  2001.


b)     Reports  on  Form  8-K
          None.

                                   -40-
<PAGE>



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc:


We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc and
subsidiaries  as  of  June  30,  2002,  and  2001,  and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in  the  three-year  period  ended  June 30, 2002.  These consolidated financial
statements  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements  based  on  our  audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in  the  United  States  of  America.  Those  standards require that we plan and
perform  the  audit  to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as well as evaluating the overall
financial  statement  presentation.  We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable  basis  for  our  opinion.

In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the financial position of ResMed Inc. and
subsidiaries  as  of June 30, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their operations
and  their  cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June
30,  2002,  in  conformity  with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United  States  of  America.

As discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has
adopted  the  provisions  of  SFAS  No.  142  "Accounting for Goodwill and Other
Intangible  Assets"  and  accordingly  has  changed its method of accounting for
goodwill.



/S/  KPMG  LLP
San  Diego,  California
August  9,  2002

                                   -F1-
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                          JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001
                              (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                                                                     June 30,    June 30,
                                                                                        2002        2001
<S>                                                                                   <C>        <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents                                                             $ 72,860   $ 40,136
Marketable securities available for sale (note 3)                                       19,979     62,616
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts
of $1,938 and $892 at June 30, 2002 and 2001, respectively                              46,199     32,248
Inventories, net (note 4)                                                               41,173     29,994
Deferred income taxes (note 11)                                                          9,289      4,152
Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                4,213      8,736
Total current assets                                                                   193,713    177,882
                                                                                      ---------  ---------

Property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of
31,084 at June 30, 2002 and $19,930 at June 30, 2001 (note 5)                          79,279     55,092
Patents, net of accumulated amortization of $1,862 and $1,030
at June 30, 2002 and 2001, respectively                                                  2,653      1,390
Goodwill (note 6)                                                                       92,536     47,870
Other assets                                                                             8,010      5,856
Total non current assets                                                               182,478    110,208
                                                                                      ---------  ---------

Total assets                                                                          $376,191   $288,090
                                                                                     ==========  =========

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable                                                                      $ 11,605   $  7,971
Accrued expenses (note 7)                                                               17,052     16,751
Income taxes payable                                                                     6,905      8,888
Payable for property purchase                                                           11,552          -
Current portion of deferred profit on sale-leaseback                                     1,933          -
Total current liabilities                                                               49,047     33,610

Non current liabilities:
Deferred revenue                                                                         7,259      4,114
Convertible subordinated notes (note 8)                                                123,250    150,000
Deferred profit on sale-leaseback                                                        3,705          -
Total non current liabilities                                                          134,214    154,114

Total liabilities                                                                      183,261    187,724

Stockholders' equity: (note 9)
Preferred stock, $.01 par value, 2,000,000 shares authorized; none issued                    -          -
Series A Junior Participating preferred stock, $0.01 par value,
250,000 shares authorized; none issued                                                       -          -
Common stock, $.004 par value, 100,000,000 shares authorized;
Issued and outstanding 33,108,207 at June 30, 2002 and 31,478,780 at June 30, 2001         132        126
Additional paid-in capital                                                              94,153     52,675
Retained earnings                                                                      114,643     77,137
Treasury stock                                                                          (7,873)         -
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                    (8,125)   (29,572)
Total stockholders' equity                                                             192,930    100,366
Commitments and contingencies (notes 14 and 17)                                              -          -
                                                                                      ---------  ---------

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                            $376,191   $288,090
                                                                                     ==========  =========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                   -F2-
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                        YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                          (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

                                                         June 30,   June 30,   June 30,
                                                            2002       2001       2000
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>

Net revenues                                             $204,076   $155,156   $115,615
Cost of sales                                              70,827     50,377     36,991

Gross profit                                              133,249    104,779     78,624

Operating expenses:
Selling, general and administrative                        64,481     49,364     36,987
Provision for restructure (note 7)                              -        550          -
In-process research and development write off (note 15)       350     17,677          -
Research and development                                   14,910     11,146      8,499
Donations to Research Foundations                           2,349          -          -

Total operating expenses                                   82,090     78,737     45,486


Income from operations                                     51,159     26,042     33,138

Other income (expenses):
Gain on extinguishment of debt                              6,549          -          -
Interest income (expense), net                             (3,224)      (762)       801
Government grants                                               -         72        279
Other, net (note 10)                                          108      1,962        (52)

Total other income (expenses), net                          3,433      1,272      1,028

Income before income taxes                                 54,592     27,314     34,166
Income taxes (note 11)                                     17,086     15,684     11,940

Net income                                               $ 37,506   $ 11,630   $ 22,226


Basic earnings per share                                 $   1.17   $   0.37   $   0.74
Diluted earnings per share                               $   1.10   $   0.35   $   0.69


Basic shares outstanding                                   32,174     31,129     30,153
Diluted shares outstanding                                 34,080     33,484     32,303
</TABLE>


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                   -F3-
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                          YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                                                       (IN THOUSANDS)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                        Accumulated
                                                    Common Stock  Additional Treasury Stock             Other
                                                    ------------  Paid-in    --------------   Retained  Comprehensive
                                                    Shares Amount Capital    Shares  Amount   Earnings  Income (loss)   Total
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                 <C>    <C>    <C>        <C>     <C>      <C>       <C>           <C>
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1999                              29,616 $118   $33,677                     $ 43,281  ($5,429)      $ 71,647

Common stock issued to consultants                  10        -       126                            -        -            126
Common stock issued on exercise of options (note 9) 968       4     6,376                            -        -          6,380
Tax benefit from exercise of options                -         -     1,316                            -        -          1,316
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                          -         -         -                       22,226        -         22,226
Other comprehensive income
Foreign currency translation adjustments                                                                 (7,723)        (7,723)
Comprehensive income

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 2000                              30,594  122    41,495                       65,507   (13,152)       93,972

Common stock issued on exercise of options (note 9)    885    4     7,939                            -         -         7,943
Tax benefit from exercise of options                     -    -     3,241                            -         -         3,241
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                               -    -         -                       11,630         -        11,630
Other comprehensive income
Foreign currency translation adjustments                 -    -         -                            -   (16,420)      (16,420)
Comprehensive income/(loss)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 2001                              31,479  126    52,675                       77,137   (29,572)      100,366

Common stock issued on exercise of options (note 9)    776    3     9,778                            -                   9,781
Common stock issued for acquisitions                   853    3    24,781                                               24,784
Treasury stock purchases                                                     (290)   (7,873)                            (7,873)
Tax benefit from exercise of options                     -    -     6,919                            -                   6,919
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                                                                      37,506                  37,506
Other comprehensive income
Foreign currency translation adjustments                                                                  21,342        21,342
Unrealized gains on marketable securities                                                                    105           105
Comprehensive income/(loss)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 2002                              33,108 $132   $94,153    (290)  $(7,873)  $114,643  $ (8,125)     $192,930
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



(TABLE CONTINUED)
------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     Comprehensive
                                                     Income
------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1999

Common stock issued to consultants
Common stock issued on exercise of options (note 9)
Tax benefit from exercise of options
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                           $ 22,226
Other comprehensive income
Foreign currency translation adjustments               (7,723)
Comprehensive income                                 $ 14,503
------------------------------------------------------------------

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 2000

Common stock issued on exercise of options (note 9)
Tax benefit from exercise of options
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                           $ 11,630
Other comprehensive income
Foreign currency translation adjustments              (16,420)
Comprehensive income/(loss)                          $ (4,790)
------------------------------------------------------------------

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 2001

Common stock issued on exercise of options (note 9)
Common stock issued for acquisitions
Treasury stock purchases
Tax benefit from exercise of options
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                             37,506
Other comprehensive income
Foreign currency translation adjustments               21,342
Unrealized gains on marketable securities                 105
Comprehensive income/(loss)                          $ 58,953
------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 2002
------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                   -F4-
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                              YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                                           (IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                   June 30,     June 30,    June 30,
                                                                      2002         2001        2000
<S>                                                                <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
Net income:                                                        $  37,506   $  11,630   $ 22,226
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization                                          9,972       7,015      6,248
Goodwill amortization                                                      -       1,430        690
Provision for service warranties                                         (85)        174        184
Deferred income taxes                                                 (6,153)     (2,306)        77
Foreign currency options revaluation                                     767       2,766      2,158
Deferred borrowing costs                                               1,254           -          -
Tax benefit from stock options exercised                               6,919       3,241      1,316
Gain on extinguishment of debt                                        (6,549)          -          -
Other, net                                                              (162)          -        126
Restructuring provision                                                    -         550          -
Purchased in-process research and development write off                  350      17,677          -

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effect
of acquisitions:
Accounts receivable, net                                              (9,765)     (5,531)    (7,394)
Inventories, net                                                      (7,063)     (8,130)    (6,027)
Prepaid expenses and other current assets                              4,785      (3,470)    (1,572)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities               3,864       4,474      2,243
Net cash provided by operating activities                             35,640      29,520     20,275
                                                                   ----------  ----------  ---------

Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchases of property, plant and equipment                           (28,185)    (27,459)   (16,168)
Purchases of marketable securities - available for sale             (393,072)    (79,879)   (36,804)
Proceeds from sale of marketable securities - available for sale     435,871      20,976     38,717
Patent registration costs                                             (1,720)       (516)      (961)
Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $812 (note 15)        (13,871)    (55,070)      (576)
Purchases of investments                                              (3,987)     (2,602)    (2,732)
Proceeds from sale-leaseback                                          18,500           -          -
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities                   13,536    (144,550)   (18,524)
                                                                   ----------  ----------  ---------

Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net                            9,781       7,943      6,380
Repayment of borrowings                                               (3,022)    (82,854)         -
Proceeds from borrowings, net of borrowing costs                      28,402     213,937          -
Redemption of borrowings                                             (48,454)          -          -
Purchases of treasury stock                                           (7,873)          -          -
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                  (21,166)    139,026      6,380
                                                                   ----------  ----------  ---------

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                                4,714      (2,110)      (989)

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents                             32,724      21,886      7,142
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year                    40,136      18,250     11,108
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year                       $  72,860   $  40,136   $ 18,250
                                                                   ----------  ----------  ---------
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Income taxes paid                                                  $  18,328   $  12,908   $  9,716
Interest paid                                                          6,557       1,439          -

Fair value of assets acquired in acquisitions                      $   9,060   $  33,139   $    383
Liabilities assumed                                                   (5,872)    (24,821)       (36)
Goodwill on acquisition                                               36,279      47,119        229
Fair value of shares issued for acquisitions                         (24,784)          -          -
Cash paid for acquisition, including acquisition costs             $  14,683   $  55,437   $    576
                                                                   ----------  ----------  ---------
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                   -F5-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001


1.     ORGANIZATION  AND  BASIS  OF  PRESENTATION

     ResMed  Inc  (the "Company") is a Delaware corporation formed in March 1994
as  a  holding  company  for  ResMed  Holdings  Ltd (RHL), a company resident in
Australia.  The  Company  designs,  manufactures  and  markets  devices  for the
evaluation  and  treatment  of sleep disordered breathing, primarily obstructive
sleep apnea.  The Company's corporate offices are based in San Diego, California
with  its  principal  manufacturing operation located in Australia.  Other major
distribution  and  sales sites are located in the United States, United Kingdom,
France,  Germany,  Sweden,  Switzerland  and  Singapore.


2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

     (a)     Basis  of  Consolidation

          The  consolidated  financial  statements  include  the accounts of the
Company  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries.  All  significant  intercompany
transactions  and  balances  have  been  eliminated  on  consolidation.

          The  preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  of  America  requires
management  estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  amounts  reported  in the
financial  statements  and accompanying notes.  Actual results could differ from
management's  estimates.

     (b)     Revenue  Recognition

          Revenue on product sales is recorded at the time of shipment.  Royalty
revenue  from  license  agreements  is  recorded  when  earned.  Service revenue
received  in  advance  from  service  contracts  is  initially  capitalized  and
progressively  recognized  as  revenue  over  the  life of the service contract.
Revenue  from  sale of marketing or distribution rights is initially capitalized
and  progressively  recognized  as  revenue  over  the  life  of  the  contract.

     (c)     Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents

          Cash  equivalents  including certificates of deposit, commercial paper
and  other  highly  liquid  investments  are  stated at cost, which approximates
market.  Investments  with original maturities of 90 days or less are considered
to  be  cash  equivalents  for  purposes  of the consolidated statements of cash
flows.

     (d)     Inventories

          Inventories  are  stated  at  the  lower of cost or market, determined
principally  by  the  first-in,  first-out  method.

     (e)     Property,  Plant  and  Equipment

          Property,  plant  and  equipment  is  recorded  at cost.  Depreciation
expense  is  computed  using  the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives  of the assets, generally two to ten years.  Straight-line and accelerated
methods  of depreciation are used for tax purposes.  Maintenance and repairs are
charged  to  expense  as  incurred.

                                   -F6-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001


2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (f)     Patents

          The  registration  costs for new patents are capitalized and amortized
over  the  estimated  useful  life  of the patent, generally five years.  In the
event  of  a  patent  being  superseded,  the  unamortized costs are written off
immediately.

     (g)     Goodwill

In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS")  No.  142,  Goodwill  and  Other
Intangible  Assets.  As allowed under the Standard, the Company has adopted SFAS
142  effective  July  1, 2001.  SFAS 142 requires goodwill and intangible assets
with  indefinite  useful  lives to no longer be amortized, but instead be tested
for  impairment  at  least  annually.

With  the  adoption  of  SFAS  142,  the Company reassessed the useful lives and
residual  values  of  all  acquired  intangible  assets  to  make  any necessary
amortization  period  adjustments.  Based  on that assessment, only goodwill was
determined to have an indefinite useful life and no adjustments were made to the
amortization  period  or  residual  values  of  other  intangible  assets.

In  accordance with SFAS 142 the Company has completed its initial assessment of
goodwill  impairment.  The  results  of  the  review  indicated that no impaired
goodwill  currently  exists.

Amortization expense of goodwill was $nil, $1,430,000 and $690,000 for the years
ended  June  30,  2002,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.

     (h)     Government  Grants

          Government  grants revenue is recognized when earned. Grants have been
obtained  by  the  Company from the Australian Federal Government to support the
continued  development  of  the  Company's  proprietary positive airway pressure
technology  and  to  assist  development  of  export  markets.  Grants have been
recognized  in the amount of $nil, $72,000 and $279,000 for the years ended June
30,  2002,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.

     (i)     Foreign  Currency

     The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  Company's  non-U.S.
subsidiaries,  whose  functional  currencies  are  other  than U.S. dollars, are
translated  into  U.S.  dollars  for  financial  reporting purposes.  Assets and
liabilities  of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional currencies are other than
the  U.S.  dollar  are  translated  at  year end exchange rates, and revenue and
expense  transactions  are  translated  at  average exchange rates for the year.
Cumulative  translation  adjustments  are  recognized  as  part of comprehensive
income,  as  described  in  Note  16,  and  are  included  in  accumulated other
comprehensive  loss  in  the  consolidated  balance sheet until such time as the
subsidiary  is sold or substantially or completely liquidated.  Gains and losses
on  transactions,  denominated  in  other  than  the  functional currency of the
entity,  are  reflected  in  operations.

                                   -F7-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (j)     Research  and  Development

          Research  and  development  costs are expensed in the period incurred.

     (k)     Earnings  Per  Share

     The weighted average shares used to calculate basic earnings per share were
32,174,000,  31,129,000,  and 30,153,000 for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001
and  2000,  respectively.  The  difference  between basic earnings per share and
diluted  earnings  per  share is attributable to the impact of outstanding stock
options  during  the  periods  presented.  Stock  options  had  the  effect  of
increasing  the  number of shares used in the calculation (by application of the
treasury stock method) by 1,906,000, 2,355,000 and 2,150,000 for the years ended
June  30,  2002,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.

     (l)     Financial  Instruments

     The  carrying  value  of  financial  instruments,  such as of cash and cash
equivalents,  marketable  securities  - available for sale, accounts receivable,
government  grants  receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair value
because  of  their short term nature.  The estimated fair value of the Company's
long-term  debt  at  June 30, 2002 approximates $102.5 million compared with the
carrying  value of $123.3 million.  Foreign currency option contracts are marked
to  market and therefore reflect their fair value.  The Company does not hold or
issue  financial  instruments  for  trading  purposes.

The  fair  value  of financial instruments is defined as the amount at which the
instrument  could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties.

     (m)     Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management

     The  Company  enters  into  various  types of foreign exchange contracts in
managing  its  foreign exchange risk, including derivative financial instruments
encompassing  forward  exchange  contracts  and  foreign  currency  options.

     The  purpose  of  the  Company's  foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect  the Company from adverse exchange rate fluctuations with respect to net
cash  movements  resulting  from  the sales of products to foreign customers and
Australian  manufacturing  activities.  The Company enters into foreign currency
option contracts to hedge anticipated sales and manufacturing costs, principally
denominated in Australian dollars and Euros.  The terms of such foreign currency
option  contracts  generally  do  not  exceed  three  years.

     Unrealized  gains  or losses are recognized as incurred in the consolidated
balance  sheets  as  either  other  assets or other liabilities and are recorded
within  other  income,  net  on the Company's consolidated statements of income.
Unrealized  gains  and  losses  on  currency derivatives are determined based on
dealer  quoted  prices.

                                   -F8-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (m)     Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management  (continued)

     The  Company  is  exposed  to  credit-related  losses  in  the  event  of
non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments.  The credit exposure
of  foreign exchange options at June 30, 2002 was $2.8 million, which represents
the  positive  fair  value  of  options  held  by  the  Company.

     The  Company  held  foreign currency option contracts with notional amounts
totaling  $160.5  million  and  $223.8  million  at  June  30,  2002  and  2001,
respectively to hedge foreign currency items.  These contracts mature at various
dates  prior  to  July  2004.

     (n)     Income  Taxes

          The  Company  accounts  for income taxes under the asset and liability
method.  Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences  attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
carrying  amounts  of  existing  assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected  to  apply  to  taxable  income  in  the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax
assets  and  liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period  that  includes  the  enactment  date.

     (o)     Marketable  Securities

          Management  determines  the  appropriate  classification  of  its
investments  in  debt  and  equity  securities  at  the  time  of  purchase  and
re-evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.  Debt securities for
which  the  Company  does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are
classified  as available for sale.  Securities available for sale are carried at
fair  value,  with  the  unrealized  gains  and  losses, net of tax, reported in
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss).  Realized gains and losses are
included  in  other  income  or  expense.

          At  June  30,  2002  and  2001,  the  Company's  investments  in  debt
securities  were  classified  on  the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as
marketable  securities  available  for  sale.  These investments are diversified
among high credit quality securities in accordance with the Company's investment
policy.

     (p)     Warranty

          Estimated  future warranty obligations related to certain products are
provided  by charges to operations in the period in which the related revenue is
recognized.

                                   -F9-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (q)     Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets

          The  Company  periodically  evaluates the carrying value of long-lived
assets  to  be  held and used, including certain identifiable intangible assets,
when  events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
not be recovered.  Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison  of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected
to be generated by the asset.  If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment  to  be  recognized  is  measured by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets.  Assets to be disposed
of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value, less costs to
sell.

     (r)     Capitalized  Software  Production  Costs

     Software  development costs have been capitalized and  will be amortized to
the  cost of product revenues over the estimated economic lives (generally three
to  five  years)  of  the  products  that  include  such  software.  Total  net
capitalized  software production costs were $1,132,000 and $nil at June 30, 2002
and  2001  respectively.


3.     MARKETABLE  SECURITIES

     The  estimated fair value of marketable securities available for sale as of
June  30,  2002  and  2001,  was  $19,979,000  and  $62,616,000,  respectively.

     Expected  maturities  may  differ  from  contractual maturities because the
issuers  of  the  securities  may  have  the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment  penalties.


4.     INVENTORIES

     Inventories,  net  were  comprised of the following as of June 30, 2002 and
2001  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                   2002     2001
<S>               <C>      <C>
Raw materials     $ 8,130  $ 7,584
Work in progress    2,057       98
Finished goods     30,986   22,312
                  $41,173  $29,994
                  -------  -------
</TABLE>


                                   -F10-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001


5.     PROPERTY,  PLANT  AND  EQUIPMENT

     Property,  plant and equipment is comprised of the following as of June 30,
2002  and  2001  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                2002       2001
<S>                                           <C>        <C>
Machinery and equipment                       $ 19,381   $ 10,930
Computer equipment                              20,520     12,829
Furniture and fixtures                           9,204      8,667
Vehicles                                         1,531      1,219
Clinical, demonstration and rental equipment    11,651      8,194
Leasehold improvements                             685        663
Land                                            27,121      5,333
Buildings                                       19,188     27,187
Construction in Progress                         1,082          -
                                               110,363     75,022
                                              ---------  ---------
Accumulated depreciation and amortization      (31,084)   (19,930)
                                              $ 79,279   $ 55,092
                                              ---------  ---------
</TABLE>



6.     GOODWILL  AND  OTHER  INTANGIBLE  ASSETS

The  Company  adopted  SFAS 142 on July 1, 2001.  The following table reconciles
the  prior  year's  reported operating income and net income to their respective
pro-forma balances adjusted to exclude goodwill amortization expense which is no
longer  recorded  under  SFAS  142,  for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and
2000,  (In  $  thousands,  except  per  share  amounts).
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                            2002     2001     2000
<S>                                        <C>      <C>      <C>
OPERATING INCOME:
Reported income from operations            $51,159  $26,042  $33,138
Add back: goodwill amortization                  -    1,430      690
Adjusted income from operations            $51,159  $27,472  $33,828
                                           -------  -------  -------

NET INCOME:
Reported net income                        $37,506  $11,630  $22,226
Add back: goodwill amortization after tax        -    1,430      690
Adjusted net income                        $37,506  $13,060  $22,916
                                           -------  -------  -------

BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE:
Reported basic earnings per share          $  1.17  $  0.37  $  0.74
Goodwill amortization after tax                  -  $  0.05  $  0.02
Adjusted basic earnings per share          $  1.17  $  0.42  $  0.76
                                           -------  -------  -------

DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE:
Reported diluted earnings per share        $  1.10  $  0.35  $  0.69
Goodwill amortization after tax                  -  $  0.04  $  0.02
Adjusted diluted earnings per share        $  1.10  $  0.39  $  0.71
                                           -------  -------  -------
</TABLE>


                                   -F11-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

6.     GOODWILL  AND  OTHER  INTANGIBLE  ASSETS  (CONTINUED)

Changes  in  the  carrying  amount of goodwill for the year ended June 30, 2002,
were  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In US$ thousands)                                           2002
<S>                                                       <C>
Balance at June 30, 2001                                  $47,870
Foreign currency translation adjustments                    8,387
Goodwill on acquisition of Labhardt Ag (Note 15)            4,161
Goodwill on acquisition of Servo Magnetics Inc (Note 15)   30,701
Contingent payment for MAP (Note 15)                        1,417
Balance at June 30, 2002                                  $92,536
                                                          -------
</TABLE>


Other  intangible  assets  amounted  to  $2.7  million  (net  of  accumulated
amortization  of $1.9 million) and $1.4 million (net of accumulated amortization
of  $1.0  million)  at  June  30, 2002 and 2001, respectively.  These intangible
assets  consist  of  patents and are amortized over the estimated useful life of
the patent, generally five years.  There are no expected residual values related
to  these  intangible  assets.

7.     ACCRUED  EXPENSES

     Accrued  expenses  at  June  30, 2002 and 2001 consist of the following (in
thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                    2002     2001
<S>                               <C>      <C>
Service warranties                $   744  $   739
Consulting and professional fees      596      809
Royalties                              55      290
Value added taxes due                 847    6,033
Employee related costs              6,817    4,687
Deferred revenue                    1,779    1,388
Research foundation grants          1,344        -
Convertible note interest             137      164
Provision for restructure               -      375
Promotional programs                2,746    1,198
Other                               1,987    1,068
                                  $17,052  $16,751
                                  -------  -------
</TABLE>


     During  the  year  ended  June  30,  2001, the Company took a restructuring
charge  of  $550,000  associated with the sale and closure of MAP's unprofitable
French  operation.  At June 30, 2002 and 2001, the provision for restructure was
$nil  and  $375,000,  respectively.

8.     LONG-TERM  DEBT
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Long-term  debt  at  June  30,  2002 and 2001 consists of the following (in
thousands):
                                   2002     2001
<S>                               <C>        <C>
Outstanding at beginning of year  $150,000   $      -
Issued                              30,000    150,000
Repurchased                        (56,750)         -
Outstanding at end of year        $123,250   $150,000
                                  ---------  --------
</TABLE>

                                   -F12-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

8.     LONG-TERM  DEBT  (CONTINUED)

     On  June  20,  2001  the  Company  issued  $150.0 million of 4% convertible
subordinated  notes  that  are due to mature on June 20, 2006.  On July 3, 2001,
the  Company  received  an  additional  $30.0  million in over allotments.  This
increased  the  total  amount of convertible subordinated notes issued to $180.0
million.

     The Company may redeem some or all of the notes at any time before June 20,
2004  at a redemption price of $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of notes, plus
accrued  and  unpaid  interest,  if  any, to the redemption date, if the closing
price  of  the  Company's common stock has exceeded 150% of the conversion price
then  in  effect  for at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive
trading  days  ending  on  the  trading  day  before  the date of mailing of the
provisional  redemption  notice.  Upon  any  such  provisional  redemption,  the
Company  will  make  an  additional  payment in cash equal to $166.67 per $1,000
principal  amount of notes, less the amount of any interest actually paid on the
notes  before  the  provisional  redemption  date.

     The  Company  may  also  redeem  some or all of the notes at any time on or
after  June 22, 2004, but prior to June 20, 2005, at a redemption price equal to
101.6% of the principal amount of notes redeemed, and at any time after June 19,
2005,  at a redemption price of 100.8% of the principal amount of notes, plus in
any  case  accrued  and  unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, if the
closing  price of the Company's common stock has exceeded 130% of the conversion
price  then  in  effect  for  at  least  20  trading  days within a period of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the trading day before the date of mailing of
the  optional  redemption  notice.

     The  notes are general unsecured obligations and are subordinated to all of
the  Company's  existing  and future senior indebtedness and will be effectively
subordinated  to  all  of  the  indebtedness  and  liabilities  of the Company's
subsidiaries.  The  indenture  governing the notes does not limit the Company or
its  subsidiaries  from  incurring  senior  indebtedness  or other indebtedness.

     During fiscal 2002, the Company repurchased $56.8 million face value of its
convertible subordinated notes.  The total purchase price of the notes was $49.1
million,  including  $0.6 million in accrued interest.  The Company recognized a
gain  of  $4.0 million, net of tax of $2.5 million on these transactions.  As at
June  30,  2002,  the  Company had convertible subordinated notes outstanding of
$123.3  million.

     The  notes  are convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or
prior  to  maturity,  into  shares of common stock of ResMed Inc.  The notes are
convertible  at  a  conversion  price  of  $60.60 per share, which is equal to a
conversion  rate of 16.5017 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, subject
to  adjustment.

     Interest  is  to  be  paid  on the notes on June 20 and December 20 of each
year.

     The  notes are general unsecured obligations and are subordinated to all of
the  Company's  existing  and future senior indebtedness and will be effectively
subordinated  to  all  of  the  indebtedness  and  liabilities  of the Company's
subsidiaries.  The  indenture  governing the notes will not limit the Company or
its  subsidiaries  from  incurring  senior  indebtedness  or other indebtedness.

                                   -F13-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

9.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

     STOCK  OPTIONS  -  The  Company  has  granted  stock  options to personnel,
including  officers  and  directors in accordance with both the 1995 Option Plan
and  the  1997  Equity  Participation  Plan  (collectively  the "Plans").  These
options  have expiration dates of ten years from the date of grant and vest over
three years.  The Company granted these options with the exercise price equal to
the  market  value  as  determined  at  the  date  of  grant.

     In August 1997 as part of the introduction of the 1997 Equity Participation
Plan,  the  Company  cancelled  43,880  options,  being  all  non-issued options
remaining  under  the  1995  Option  Plan.

     The  following  table  summarizes  option  activity:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                   Weighted             Weighted                 Weighted
                                                   Average              Average                  Average
                                                   Exercise             Exercise                 Exercise
                                         2002      Price      2001      Price ($)      2000      Price ($)
<S>                                 <C>             <C>     <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>
Outstanding at beginning of year        3,852,818   $17.14   3,298,022   $    10.12   3,142,272   $     7.32
Granted                                 1,328,600    50.18   1,569,690        27.27   1,336,900        14.14
Exercised                                (775,803)   12.61    (884,859)        8.98    (967,985)        6.59
Forfeited                                (204,617)   26.75    (130,035)       17.78    (213,165)       10.04
Outstanding at end of year              4,200,998   $27.94   3,852,818   $    17.14   3,298,022   $    10.12
Price range of granted options      $33.15-$52.20           $   24-$40               $   13-$27
Options exercisable at end of year      1,631,044    13.76   1,240,427   $     8.02   1,368,286   $     6.92
</TABLE>

     The  total  number  of  shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance upon
exercise  of options and other awards, or upon vesting of restricted or deferred
stock  awards,  under  the  1997 Plan was initially established at 1,000,000 and
increases  at  the beginning of each fiscal year, commencing on July 1, 1998, by
an  amount  equal  to  4% of the outstanding Common Stock on the last day of the
preceding  fiscal  year.  The  maximum number of shares of Common Stock issuable
upon  exercise  of incentive stock options granted under the 1997 Plan, however,
cannot exceed 8,000,000.  Furthermore, the maximum number of shares which may be
subject  to  options,  rights or other awards granted under the 1997 Plan to any
individual  in  any  calendar  year  cannot  exceed  300,000.

     The  following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at  June  30,  2002.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                    Number Outstanding at  Weighted Average            Number Exercisable at
Exercise Prices     at June 30, 2002       Remaining Contractual Life  June 30,
                                    2002
<S>                 <C>                    <C>                         <C>
0  - $10            508,810                4.01                        508,810
11 - $20            1,107,355              6.75                        747,166
21 - $30            973,803                8.43                        267,121
31 - $40            357,330                8.88                        104,446
41 - $50            50,300                 9.37                        3,501
51 - $60            1,203,400              9.09                        0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    4,200,998              7.69                        1,631,044
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


                                   -F14-
<PAGE>


                             RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

9.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

The following table summarizes outstanding stock option plan balances as at
June  30,  2002

                      Number of securities                                 Number  of  securities
                      to be issued  upon           Weighted-average        remaining  available  for
                      exercise of outstanding      exercise  price  of     future issuance under
Plan  Category        options                      outstanding  option     equity compensation plans
<S>                    <C>                         <C>                     <C>
Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders       4,200,998                   $27.94                  763,491

Equity compensation
plans not approved by
security holders       -                           -                       -
Total                  4,200,998                   $27.94                  763,491
</TABLE>


The  Company  applies  APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for its Plans and as all
stock  options are issued at market price on date of issue, no compensation cost
has  been  recognized  for  its  stock  options.  Had  the  Company  determined
compensation cost under SFAS 123, the fair value at the grant date for its stock
options  would  have  reduced  the Company's net income to the pro forma amounts
indicated  below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                         2002     2001     2000
<S>                                                     <C>      <C>      <C>
Net income (in thousands):
As reported                                             $37,506  $11,630  $22,226
Pro forma                                                18,531    2,859   17,511

Basic earnings per common share:
As reported                                             $  1.17  $  0.37  $  0.74
Pro forma                                               $  0.58  $  0.09  $  0.58

Diluted income per common and common equivalent share:
As reported                                             $  1.10  $  0.35  $  0.69
Pro forma                                               $  0.54  $  0.09  $  0.54
</TABLE>


The  fair  value  of  each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model with the following assumptions:
weighted  average risk-free interest rates of 4.8% for fiscal 2002, and 6.0% and
6.5%  for fiscal 2001 and 2000, respectively; no dividend yield; expected option
lives  of  5.5  years  for fiscal 2002 and 4.8 and 3.8 years for fiscal 2001 and
2000,  respectively;  and  volatility of 60% for 2002 and 61% and 55% for fiscal
2001  and  2000.

Fair  Value  of  compensation  costs  by  period  of  Grant  are noted below (in
thousands  except  per  share  data):

                                   -F15-
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001
                                             Average                   Fair
Year of Grant     FY02     FY01     FY00     Exercise  Fair Value at   Value at
                                             Price     Date of Grant   June 30, 2002
<S>                <C>      <C>      <C>     <C>       <C>             <C>
2002               $21,074  $     -  $    -  $50.18    $26.10          $11.98
2001                 7,142   10,272       -   27.27     13.41          14.96
2000                   971    2,540   5,201   14.14      6.56          18.59
1999                     5      682   1,803   11.31      5.27          19.80
1998                     -        -     250    6.08      2.13          24.95
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Compensation Cost  $29,192  $13,494  $7,254
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tax Effected       $18,975  $ 8,771  $4,715
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


The  following table summarizes stock option grants by recipient, with executive
employees  as  defined  pursuant  to Section 16(b) of Securities Exchange Act of
1934  separately  disclosed.  As  at  June 30, 2002, the Company has 8 executive
employees.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               June 30,   June 30,   June 30,
                                   2002      2001        2000
<S>                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Directors                        73,000     21,000     48,000
Executives                      167,000    167,500    166,770
Staff                         1,088,600  1,381,190  1,122,130
Gross Options Issued          1,328,600  1,569,690  1,336,900
                              ---------  ---------  ---------
Employees                         1,250        953        605
                              =========  =========  =========
Average Options per Employee      1,063      1,647      2,210
                              ---------  ---------  ---------
</TABLE>

PREFERRED  STOCK.  In  April  1997,  the board of directors authorized 2,000,000
shares  of  $0.01  par  value  preferred  stock.  No  such shares were issued or
outstanding  at  June  30,  2002.

     STOCK  PURCHASE  RIGHTS.  In  April 1997, the Company implemented a plan to
protect stockholders' rights in the event of a proposed takeover of the Company.
Under the plan, each share of the Company's outstanding common stock carries one
right  to  purchase Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Right").
The  Right  enables  the holder, under certain circumstances, to purchase common
stock  of  the  Company or of the acquiring person at a substantially discounted
price ten days after a person or group publicly announces it has acquired or has
tendered  an  offer  for  20% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock.
The  Rights  are  redeemable  at  $0.01  per  Right  and  expire  in  2007.

     COMMON  STOCK.  During  fiscal  2000,  the  Board  of  Directors declared a
two-for-one  split  of  the  Company's  common  stock, effective March 31, 2000.
Stockholders'  equity  has  been  restated  for  all  periods  presented to give
retroactive  recognition  to  the  stock  split by reclassifying from additional
paid-in  capital  to  common  stock, the par value of the additional shares as a
result  of  the  stock  split.

     On  June  6,  2002,  the  Board  of  Directors  authorized  the  Company to
repurchase  up to 4.0 million shares of outstanding common stock.  During fiscal
year  2002,  the  Company  repurchased 290,047 shares at a cost of $7.9 million.
Shares  that are repurchased are classified as treasury stock pending future use
and  reduce  the  number  of shares outstanding used in calculating earnings per
share.

                                   -F16-
<PAGE>



                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

10.     OTHER,  NET

     Other,  net  is  comprised of the following at June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000
(in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    2002      2001      2000
<S>                                                <C>     <C>       <C>
 License fees                                      $ 148   $   125   $   167
 Gain/(loss) on foreign currency hedging position   (767)   (2,766)   (1,863)
 Gain/(loss) on foreign currency transactions        182     4,747     1,681
Realized gain on sale of marketable securities       301         -         -
 Other                                               244      (144)      (37)
</TABLE>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $108     $1,962     $(52)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

11.     INCOME  TAXES

     Income  before  income  taxes  for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001, and
2000,  was  taxed  under  the  following  jurisdictions  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
           2002     2001     2000
<S>       <C>      <C>      <C>
U.S.      $   418  $ 3,482  $ 4,644
Non-U.S.   54,174   23,832   29,522
          $54,592  $27,314  $34,166
</TABLE>

     The  provision  for  income  taxes  is  presented  below  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               2002     2001     2000
<S>                         <C>       <C>       <C>
Current:
 Federal                    $ 4,962   $ 2,938   $ 1,396
 State                          752       203        77
 Non-U.S.                    17,525    14,790    10,390
                             23,239    17,931    11,863
Deferred:
 Federal                     (3,494)     (652)      390
 State                         (568)       90        14
 Non-U.S.                    (2,091)   (1,685)     (327)
                             (6,153)   (2,247)       77
Provision for income taxes  $17,086   $15,684   $11,940
</TABLE>


                                   -F17-
<PAGE>

                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

11.     INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

     The  provision  for income taxes differs from the amount of income tax determined by
applying  the applicable U.S. federal income tax rate of 35% to pretax income as a result
of  the  following  (in  thousands):

                                                               2002      2001      2000
<S>                                                          <C>       <C>       <C>
Computed "expected" tax expense                              $19,108   $ 9,287   $11,616
Increase (decrease) in income taxes resulting from:
 Non-deductible expenses                                         116       460       715
 Research and development credit                                (888)     (781)     (430)
 Tax effect of intercompany dividends                          2,577    (3,885)     (508)
 Utilization of net operating loss carryforwards                   -        (5)       (4)
Write-off of net operating losses due to business cessation    1,046         -         -
 Change in valuation allowance                                (2,614)    4,431        22
 Effect of non-U.S. tax rates                                 (3,379)        4       714
 State income taxes, net of U.S. tax benefit                     363       356       235
 In-process research and development write-off                   123     6,010         -
 Provision for restructure                                         -       187         -
 Other                                                           634      (380)     (420)
                                                             $17,086   $15,684   $11,940
                                                             ========  ========  ========

</TABLE>


     The  tax  effects  of  temporary  differences that give rise to significant
portions  of  the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are comprised
of  the  following  at  June  30,  2002  and  2001  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  2002      2001
                                                ========  ========
<S>                                             <C>       <C>
Deferred tax assets:
Employee benefit obligations                    $   940   $   573
Inventory                                           289         -
Provision for service warranties                    195       203
Provision for doubtful debts                        648       317
Net operating loss carryforwards                  1,088     2,206
Deferred foreign tax credits                      7,291     7,193
AMT tax credit                                    1,675         -
Accrual for legal costs                              54         5
Intercompany profit in inventories                5,606     3,492
Property, plant and equipment                         -       189
Deferred gain on sale-leaseback                   1,740         -
Other accruals                                    1,679       663
                                                 21,205    14,925
                                                --------  --------
Less valuation allowance                         (2,950)   (5,592)
Deferred tax assets                             $18,255   $ 9,333

Deferred tax liabilities:
 Patents                                           ($74)    ($382)
 Capitalized software                              (451)     (495)
 Unrealized gain on foreign currency options       (829)     (179)
 Unrealized foreign exchange gains                 (238)        -
Property, plant and equipment                    (1,595)        -
 Undistributed German income                     (3,355)   (2,104)
 Deferred tax deductible goodwill amortization   (2,410)   (1,698)
 Other receivables                                    -      (197)
 Other                                              (14)     (126)
Deferred tax liabilities                         (8,966)   (5,181)
Net deferred tax asset                          $ 9,289   $ 4,152
                                                --------  --------
</TABLE>


                                   -F18-
<PAGE>


                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

11.     INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)

     The  valuation allowance at June 30, 2002, primarily relates to a provision
for  uncertainty  as  to  the  utilization  of  deferred  foreign tax credits of
$2,787,000  and  net  operating  loss  carryforwards  of  $163,000  relating  to
Singapore and Malaysia.  The net change in the valuation allowance was a decline
of  $2,642,000 for the year ended June 30, 2002, in comparison to an increase of
$5,506,000  and  an  increase  of $22,000, for the years ended June 30, 2001 and
2000,  respectively.  The  measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at
June  30 of each year, reflect foreign currency translation adjustments, changes
in  enacted  tax  rates  and  changes in temporary differences.  Income taxes in
2002,  2001  and  2000  were  reduced  by  $nil, $5,000 and $4,000 respectively,
through  the  utilization  of  net  operating  loss  carryforwards.


12.     EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS

     The  Company  contributes  to a number of employee retirement plans for the
benefit  of  its  employees.  These  plans  are  detailed  as  follows:

     (1)  Australia.  The  Company  contributes  to defined contribution pension
plans  for  each employee resident in Australia.  All Australian employees after
serving  a qualifying period, are entitled to benefits on retirement, disability
or  death.  Employees may contribute additional funds to the plans.  The Company
contributes  to  the  plans  at the rate of 8% of the salaries of all Australian
employees.  This  rate  increased  to  9% effective July 1, 2002.  Total Company
contributions  to  the  plans  for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000
were  $968,000,  $814,000  and  $632,000,  respectively.

(2)  United Kingdom.  The Company contributes to a defined contribution plan for
each  permanent  United  Kingdom employee.  All employees, after serving a three
month  qualifying  period,  are entitled to benefit on retirement, disability or
death.  Employees  may  contribute  additional  funds  to the plan.  The Company
contributes  to  the  plans  at  the  rate of 3% of the salaries.  Total Company
contributions  to the plan were $16,000, $7,000 and $8,000 in fiscal 2002, 2001,
and  2000  respectively.

(3)  United  States.  The  Company  sponsors a defined contribution pension plan
available  to  substantially  all  domestic employees.  Company contributions to
this plan are based on a percentage of employee contributions to a maximum of 3%
of  employee  salaries.  The  cost  of  this  plan  to the Company was $245,000,
$158,000  and  $123,000  in  fiscal  2002,  2001  and  2000  respectively.

13.     SEGMENT  INFORMATION

     The Company operates solely in the sleep disordered breathing sector of the
respiratory  medicine  industry.  The Company therefore believes that, given the
single  market  focus of its operations and the inter-dependence of its products
that  the  Company operates as a single operating segment.  The Company assesses
performance  and  allocates resources on the basis of a single operating entity.

     Financial information by geographic area for the years ended June 30, 2002,
2001  and  2000,  is  summarized  below  (in  thousands):

                                   -F19-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

13.     SEGMENT  INFORMATION  (CONTINUED)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       Rest of
                                 U.S.A    Germany  Australia   France  World   Total
<S>                              <C>      <C>      <C>         <C>     <C>     <C>
2002
Revenue from external customers  $95,463  35,386    5,569      20,957  46,701  $204,076
Long lived assets                $34,127   3,738   46,370         599   2,455  $ 87,289

2001
Revenue from external customers  $74,981  25,646    5,318      17,592  31,619  $155,156
Long lived assets                $30,475   3,063   25,130         555   1,725  $ 60,948

2000
Revenue from external customers  $58,419  14,317    4,444      11,949  26,486  $115,615

Long lived assets                $ 8,126   1,248   27,595         622   1,863  $ 39,454
</TABLE>


     Net  revenues  from  external  customers  is  based  on the location of the
customer.  Long-lived  assets  of  geographic areas are those assets used in the
Company's  operations  in  each geographical area and excludes patents, deferred
tax  assets  and  goodwill.


14.     COMMITMENTS

     The  Company  leases  buildings,  motor vehicles and office equipment under
operating  leases.  Rental charges for these items are expensed as incurred.  At
June  30, 2002 the Company had the following future minimum lease payments under
non-cancelable  operating  leases  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                            Operating  Sub lease   Total net minimum
Years                          Leases  rental      lease payments
                                       income
<S>                           <C>      <C>         <C>
2003                          $ 4,326  $247        $ 4,079
2004                            4,339   257          4,082
2005                            3,967   268          3,699
2006                            1,217    68          1,149
2007                              991     -            991
Thereafter                        211     -            211
Total minimum lease payments  $15,051  $840        $14,211
</TABLE>


Rent expenses under operating leases for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and
2000  were  approximately  $2,267,000,  $1,087,000  and  $744,000, respectively.

                                   -F20-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001


15.     BUSINESS  ACQUISITIONS

FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  JUNE  30,  2002

SERVO  MAGNETICS  INC  (SMI).  On  May 14, 2002, the Company acquired all of the
common  stock  of  Servo  Magnetics  Incorporated  through  a  merger  with  our
wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Servo  Magnetics  Acquisition  Inc.,  for  total
consideration,  including  acquisition  costs,  of $32.6 million.  Consideration
included  the  issue  of 853,448 shares for fair value of $24.8 million with the
balance  of the acquisition cost paid in cash.  Upon consummation of the merger,
the surviving corporation, Servo Magnetics Acquisition Inc., changed its name to
Servo  Magnetics,  Inc.

The  acquisition  has  been  accounted  for  as  a purchase and accordingly, the
results  of  operations  of SMI have been included in the Company's consolidated
financial  statements  from May 14, 2002.  The excess of the purchase price over
the  fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $1.9 million has been
recorded  as  goodwill.

Purchased  in-process  research  and  development  of $350,000 was expensed upon
acquisition  of  SMI  because  technological  feasibility  of the products under
development  had  not  been established and no further alternative uses existed.
The  value  of  in  process  technology  was  calculated by identifying research
projects  in areas for which technological feasibility had not been established,
estimating  the  costs  to  develop  the  purchased  in  process technology into
commercially  viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
products,  discounting  the  net  cash  flows to present value, and applying the
reduced  percentage completion of the projects thereto.  The discount rates used
in  the  analysis  were  19%  and were based on the risk profile of the acquired
assets.

Purchased  research and development projects related to electrical motor systems
used  in the company's flow generator devices and other medical and data storage
equipment.  Key  assumptions used in the analysis included gross margins of 34%.
As  of  the date of acquisition, new motor systems for use in medical and health
applications  are  expected  to be completed and commercially available by 2004.
These  projects  have  estimated  costs  to complete totaling approximately $0.5
million.

The  Company  believes  that  the  assumptions used to value acquired intangible
assets noted above were reasonable at the time of acquisition.  No assurance can
be  given,  however,  that  the underlying assumptions used to estimate expected
project  revenues, development costs or profitability, or events associated with
such  projects,  will  transpire as estimated.  For these reasons, among others,
actual  results  may  vary  from  the  projected  results.

LABHARDT AG.  On November 15, 2001, the Company's wholly owned subsidiary ResMed
International  Inc.  acquired  all  the  Common  Stock of Labhardt Ag, its Swiss
distributor  for  total  cash  consideration including acquisition costs of $5.5
million.

The  acquisition  has  been  accounted  for  as  a purchase and accordingly, the
results  of  operations  of  Labhardt  have  been  included  in  the  Company's
consolidated  financial  statements  from  November 15, 2001.  The excess of the
purchase  price  over  the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of
$1.3  million  has  been  recorded  as  goodwill.

Pro-forma  financial information related to SMI and Labhardt Ag are not included
as  the  effects  would  not  be  significant  to  the  consolidated  financial
statements.

                                   -F21-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001


15.     BUSINESS  ACQUISITION  (CONTINUED)

FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  JUNE  30,  2001

MAP  MEDIZIN-TECHNOLOGIE  GMBH  (MAP).  On February 16, 2001 the Company's fully
owned German Subsidiary, ResMed Beteiligungs GmbH, acquired all the common stock
of  MAP  Medizin-Technologie  GmbH  ("MAP'')  for total consideration, including
acquisition  costs,  of  $55.4  million.  MAP  is  a  leading  German  designer,
manufacturer  and distributor of medical devices for the diagnosis and treatment
of  SDB,  with  a  particular  focus  on  OSA.

The  acquisition  has  been  accounted  for  as  a purchase and accordingly, the
results  of  operations  of MAP have been included in the Company's consolidated
financial  statements  from February 16, 2001.  The excess of the purchase price
over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $47.1 million has
been  recorded  as  goodwill.

Purchased  in-process  research and development of $17,677,000 was expensed upon
acquisition  of  MAP  because  technological  feasibility  of the products under
development  had  not  been established and no further alternative uses existed.
The  value  of  in  process  technology  was  calculated by identifying research
projects  in areas for which technological feasibility had not been established,
estimating  the  costs  to  develop  the  purchased  in  process technology into
commercially  viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
products,  discounting  the  net  cash  flows to present value, and applying the
reduced  percentage completion of the projects thereto.  The discount rates used
in  the  analysis were between 27% and 33% and were based on the risk profile of
the  acquired  assets.

All purchased research and development projects related to medical equipment for
the  treatment  of  sleep  disordered  breathing,  primarily  relating  to  the
development  of  mask  interface  systems  and  autotitrating  devices  for  the
treatment  of obstructive sleep apnea and associated disorders.  Key assumptions
used  in  the analysis included gross margins ranging from 70% to 80%. As of the
date of acquisition, the mask interface systems are expected to be completed and
commercially available in 2002 and versions of the autotitrating devices between
2003  and  2005.  These  projects  have  estimated  costs  to complete totalling
approximately  $2.0  million.

The  Company believes that the assumptions used to value the acquired intangible
assets  were  reasonable at the time of acquisition.  No assurance can be given,
however,  that  the  underlying  assumptions  used  to estimate expected project
revenues,  development  costs  or  profitability, or events associated with such
projects,  will transpire as estimated.  For these reasons, among others, actual
results  may  vary  from  the  projected  results.

The  following  unaudited  pro-forma financial information presents the combined
results  of operations of the Company and MAP as if the acquisition had occurred
as  of the beginning of the years ended June 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively and
after  giving  effect to certain adjustments, including amortization of goodwill
and increased interest expense associated with debt funding the acquisition. The
pro-forma  financial  information  does  not  necessarily reflect the results of
operations that would have occurred had the Company and MAP constituted a single
entity  during  such  years.

                                   -F22-
<PAGE>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

15.     BUSINESS  ACQUISITION  (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


(In thousands except per share data)     2001     2000
<S>                                      <C>       <C>
Net revenue                              $172,250  $138,396
Net income                                 28,556    17,612

Basic earnings per share                 $   0.92  $   0.58
Diluted earnings per share               $   0.85  $   0.55

Basic shares outstanding                   31,129    30,153
Diluted shares outstanding                 33,484    32,303

</TABLE>


During  the  December  2001, the Company paid an amount of $1.4 million as final
consideration associated with the purchase of MAP.  The amount has been recorded
as  goodwill.

EINAR  EGNELL  AB.   On  January  31,  2000,  the Company's wholly owned Swedish
subsidiary,  ResMed  Sweden  AB,  acquired the business and associated assets of
Einar  Egnell AB, its Swedish distributor for $576,000 in cash.  The acquisition
has  been accounted for as a purchase and accordingly, the results of operations
of  the  Einar  Egnell business have been included in the Company's consolidated
financial  statements  from  January 31, 2000.  The excess of the purchase price
over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $229,000 has been
recorded  as  goodwill.


16.     COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME

     As  of  July 1, 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  No. 130, 'Reporting Comprehensive Income' which established standards
for  the reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components in the
financial  statements.

Movements  in  comprehensive  income (loss) for the year ended June 30, 2002 are
presented  below  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                 Foreign    Unrealized    Accumulated Other Retained     Accumulated
                                 Currency   Gains  on     Comprehensive     Earnings     Comprehensive
                                 Items      Securities    Income  (Loss)                 Income  (Loss)


<S>                              <C>        <C>           <C>               <C>          <C>
Beginning balance, July 1, 2001  ($29,572)    -           ($29,572)         $ 77,137     $ 47,565
Current period change              21,342   105             21,447            37,506       58,953
Ending balance, June 30, 2002     ($8,230)  105            ($8,125)         $114,643     $106,518
</TABLE>



     Comprehensive  income/(loss)  for  the  years ended June 30, 2002, June 30,
2001  and  June  30,  2000  was $59.0 million, ($4.8) million and $14.5 million,
respectively.

The Company does not provide for US income taxes on foreign currency translation
adjustments  since  it does not provide for such taxes on undistributed earnings
of  foreign subsidiaries.  Accumulated other comprehensive loss at June 30, 2002
and June 30, 2001 consisted of foreign currency translation adjustments with net
debit  balances  of  $8.2 million and $29.6 million, respectively and unrealized
gains  on securities of $105,000 (net of tax of $57,000) and zero, respectively.

                                   -F23-
<PAGE>

                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

17.     LEGAL  ACTIONS

The  Company  is currently engaged in litigation relating to the enforcement and
defense  of  certain  of  its  patents.

In  January  1995,  the  Company filed a complaint in the United States District
Court  for the Southern District of California seeking monetary damages from and
injunctive  relief  against Respironics for alleged infringement of three ResMed
patents.  In  February  1995, Respironics filed a complaint in the United States
District  Court  for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania against the Company
seeking  a  declaratory  judgment  that  Respironics does not infringe claims of
these patents and that the Company's patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The
two actions were combined and are proceeding in the United States District Court
for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania.  In June 1996, the Company filed an
additional  complaint  against  Respironics  for infringement of a fourth ResMed
patent, and that complaint was consolidated with the earlier action.  As of this
date,  Respironics  has  brought  three  partial  summary  judgment  motions for
non-infringement  of  the  ResMed  patents;  the  Court  has granted each of the
motions.  In  December  1999,  in response to the Court's ruling on Respironics'
third  summary judgment motion, the parties jointly stipulated to a dismissal of
charges  of  infringement  under the fourth ResMed patent, with ResMed reserving
the  right to reassert the charges in the event of a favorable ruling on appeal.
It  is  ResMed's  intention to appeal the summary judgment rulings after a final
judgment  in  the consolidated litigation has been entered in the District Court
proceedings.

In  January  2001,  MAP  Medizin-Technologie  GmbH  filed a lawsuit in the Civil
Chamber  of  Munich  Court  against Hofrichter GmbH seeking actual and exemplary
monetary  damages  for  the  unauthorized  and  infringing  use of the Company's
trademarks  and  patents.  An  initial  decision  has been made in favor of MAP.
Hofrichter  has  filed  an appeal and have sort Court determination that the MAP
patents  do  not  apply  to  certain  Hofrichter  products.

On  August  26,  2002,  ResMed  filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in San
Diego against Fisher & Paykel Healthcare.  The ResMed complaint seeks a judgment
that  selected  Fisher  &  Paykel  Healthcare mask products (ACLAIM and ACLAIM 2
masks)  infringe  patents  held  by  ResMed.  The  complaint further charges the
defendant  with  the  copying  of ResMed proprietary mask technology and alleges
trade  dress and common law violations relating to the appearance of ResMed mask
products.

While  the  Company  is prosecuting the above actions, there can be no assurance
that  the  Company  will  be  successful.


                                   -F24-
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the  registrant  has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

DATED  September  9,  2002

ResMed  Inc

/S/  PETER  C.  FARRELL
_
_______________________
Peter  C.  Farrell
President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer

/S/  ADRIAN  M.  SMITH
_
_______________________
Adrian  M.  Smith
Vice  President  Finance  and  Chief  Financial  Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has  been  signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>



<S>                              <C>                                <C>
SIGNATURE                        TITLE                              DATE

/S/  PETER C. FARRELL            Chief Executive Officer,           September 9, 2002
 Peter C. Farrell                President, Chairman of the Board
                                 (Principal Executive Officer)

/S/      CHRISTOPHER G. ROBERTS  Director                           September 9, 2002
 Christopher G. Roberts


/S/  MICHAEL A. QUINN            Director                           September 9, 2002
 Michael A. Quinn


/S/  GARY W. PACE                Director                           September 9, 2002
 Gary W. Pace


/S/  DONAGH MCCARTHY             Director                           September 9, 2002
 Donagh McCarthy


/S/  CHRISTOPHER A. BARTLETT     Director                           September 9, 2002
 Christopher Bartlett


/S/  LOUIS A. SIMPSON            Director                           September 9, 2002
 Louis Simpson
</TABLE>


                                   -41-
<PAGE>
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I,  Peter  C.  Farrell,  certify  that:

1.     I  have  reviewed  this  annual  report  on  Form  10-K  of  ResMed Inc.;

2.     Based  on  my  knowledge,  this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement  of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the  statements  made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were  made,  not  misleading  with  respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

3.     Based  on  my  knowledge,  the  financial statements, and other financial
information  included  in  this  annual  report,  fairly present in all material
respects  the  financial  condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant  as  of,  and  for,  the  periods  presented  in  this annual report.


Date:  September  9,  2002

/S/  PETER  C.  FARRELL
------------------------------
Peter  C.  Farrell
President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer



I,  Adrian  M.  Smith,  certify  that:

1.     I  have  reviewed  this  annual  report  on  Form  10-K  of  ResMed Inc.;

2.     Based  on  my  knowledge,  this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement  of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the  statements  made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were  made,  not  misleading  with  respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

3.     Based  on  my  knowledge,  the  financial statements, and other financial
information  included  in  this  annual  report,  fairly present in all material
respects  the  financial  condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant  as  of,  and  for,  the  periods  presented  in  this annual report.


Date:  September  9,  2002

/S/  ADRIAN  M.  SMITH
------------------------------
Adrian  M.  Smith
Vice  President  Finance
and  Chief  Financial  Officer

                                   -42-
<PAGE>


SCHEDULE  II
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                    YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                           Balance at  Charged to  Other          Balance at
                         Beginning of  costs and   deductions)    end of period
                               Period  expenses


<S>                              <C>   <C>         <C>            <C>
Year ended June 30, 2002:
Applied against asset account
Allowance for doubtful accounts  $892  1,542       (496)          1,938


Year ended June 30, 2001:
Applied against asset account
Allowance for doubtful accounts  $833    681       (622)          892


Year ended June 30, 2000:
Applied against asset account
Allowance for doubtful accounts  $421    632       (220)          833
</TABLE>


                 See accompanying independent auditor's report.

                                   -43-
<PAGE>


                               EXHIBIT INDEX

2.1     Sale  and  Assignment  Agreement  dated as of February 16, 2001, between
ResMed  Inc,  ResMed  Beteilingungs  GmbH  and  the  shareholders  of  MAP
Medizin-Technologie  GmbH*
2.2     Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 14, 2002 among ResMed Inc.,
Servo  Magnetics  Acquisition  Inc.,  Servo Magnetics Incorporated and Mr Leslie
Hoffman.
3.1     Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended**
3.2     By-laws  of  Registrant**
4.1     Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock**
4.2     Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997***
4.3     Indenture  dated  as  of  June 20, 2001, between ResMed Inc and American
Stock  Transfer  &  Trust  Company******
4.4     Registration  Rights Agreement dated as of June 20, 2001, by and between
ResMed  Inc,  Merrill  Lynch  &  Co.,  Merrill  Lynch,  Pierce,  Fenner  & Smith
Incorporated,  Deutsche  Banc  Alex Brown Inc., William Blair & Company, L.L.C.,
Macquarie  Bank  Limited  and  UBS  Warburg  LLC******
4.5     Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated as of May 14, 2002 between ResMed
Inc.,  and  Mr  Leslie  Hoffman.
10.1     1995  Stock  Option  Plan**
10.2     1997  Equity  Participation  Plan****
10.3     Licensing Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed Limited
dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended**
10.4     Consulting  Agreement  between  Colin  Sullivan  and  ResMed  Limited
effective  from  1  January  1998*****
10.5     Loan  Agreement  between  the  Australian  Trade  Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994**
10.6     Lease  for  1091 Carroll Canyon Road, San Diego 92131-1109, U.S.A.*****
10.7     Sale and Leaseback Agreements for 97 Waterloo Rd, North Ryde, Australia
10.8     Employment  Agreement dated as of May 14, 2002, between Servo Magnetics
Acquisition  Inc.,  and  Mr  Leslie  Hoffman.
10.9     Agreement  for  the  purchase  of Lot 6001, Norwest Boulevarde, Norwest
Business  Park,  Baulkham  Hills,  Australia
11.1     Computation  of  Earnings  per  Common  Share
21.1     Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1     Independent  Auditors'  Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule

----------------------
*Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated March 2,
 2001.
**Incorporated  by  reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
***Incorporated  by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
   8-A12G  filed  on  April  25,  1997.
****Incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Registrant's  1997  Proxy  Statement.
*****Incorporated  by  reference  to  the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K dated
     June  30,  1998.
******Incorporated  by  reference  to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K dated
      June  30,  2001.


                                   -44-
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

EXHIBIT  11.1
-------------

                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


                                            Year    Ended    June 30,
                                            2002    2001     2000
<S>                                        <C>      <C>      <C>
BASIC EARNINGS
Net income                                 $37,506  $11,630  $22,226

Shares
Weighted average number of common
 shares outstanding                         32,174    31,99   30,153


Basic earnings per share                   $  1.17  $  0.37  $  0.74


DILUTED EARNINGS
Net income                                 $37,506  $11,630  $22,226

Shares
Weighted average number of common
shares outstanding                          32,174    31,99   30,153

Additional shares assuming conversion of
stock options under treasury stock method    1,906    2,355    2,150

Weighted average number of common and
common equivalent shares outstanding
as adjusted                                 34,080   33,484   32,303


Diluted earnings per share                 $  1.10  $  0.35  $  0.69
</TABLE>



                 See accompanying independent auditor's report.
                 ----------------------------------------------
                                   -45-
<PAGE>


EXHIBIT  21.1

                                   RESMED INC
                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

ResMed  Holdings  Limited  (incorporated  under  the  laws  of  New South Wales,
Australia)

ResMed  Limited  (incorporated  under  the  laws of New South Wales, Australia)*

ResMed  Asia  Pacific  Limited  (incorporated under the laws of New South Wales,
Australia)*

ResMed  Corporation  (a  Minnesota  corporation)

ResMed  (UK)  Limited  (a  United  Kingdom  corporation)*

ResMed  International  Inc  (a  Delaware  corporation)

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  and  Co  Kg  (a  German  corporation)**

ResMed  SA  (a  French  corporation)**

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  (a  German  corporation)

ResMed  Singapore  Pte  Ltd  (a  Singaporean  corporation)**

ResMed  (Malaysia)  Sdn  Bhd  (a  Malaysian  Corporation)**

ResMed  New  Zealand  Limited  (a  New  Zealand  Corporation)**

ResMed  R&D Limited (incorporated under the laws of New South Wales, Australia)*

ResMed  Sweden  AB  (a  Swedish  corporation)**

ResMed  KK  (a  Japanese  corporation)**

ResMed  Beteiligungs  GmbH  (a  German  corporation)

MAP  Medizin-Technologie  GmbH  (a  German  corporation)***

MAP  Medizintechnik f r Arzt und Patient GmbH & Co Kg (a German corporation)****

MAP  Medizintechnik  f  r  Arzt  und  Patient  GmbH  (a  Swiss  corporation)****

MAP  Hirsch  Medizintechnik  f  r  Arzt  und  Patient  GmbH  (an  Austrian
corporation)****

MAP  Techniques Avanc es pour M decins et Patients SA (a French corporation)****

Blue  Medic  SA  (a  French  corporation)****

MAP  Medische  Techniek  voor  Arts  en  Patient  BV  (a  Dutch corporation)****

Labhardt  Ag  (A  Swiss  corporation)**

Servo  Magnetics  Inc.  (a  Delaware  corporation)

ResMed  Spain  SL  (a  Spanish  corporation)**

-------------------
*A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  Holdings  Limited
**  A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  International  Inc
***  A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  Beteiligungs  GmbH
****  A  subsidiary  of  MAP  Medizin-Technologie  GmbH

                                   -46-
<PAGE>

EXHIBIT  23.1

              INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE




The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc:



The  audits referred to in our report dated August 9, 2002, included the related
financial  statement  schedule  as of June 30, 2002 and for each of the years in
the three-year period ended June 30, 2002.  This financial statement schedule is
the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to
express an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.  In
our  opinion,  such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all  material  respects  the  information  set  forth  therein.

Our  report  refers  to  a  change  in  the  method  of accounting for goodwill.

We  consent  to incorporation by reference in the registration statements, (Nos.
333-08013  and  333-88231)  on  Form  S-8  and  the  registration statement (No.
333-70500)  on  Form  S3  of  ResMed  Inc.  of  our  reports  included  herein.

/S/  KPMG  LLP

San  Diego,  California
September  9,  2002

                                   -47-
<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
