 10-Q 1 c-3312018x10q.htm 10-Q     Document  UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWASHINGTON, D.C. 20549FORM 10-Q QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OFTHE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018 Commission file number 1-9924Citigroup Inc.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 52-1568099(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY(Address of principal executive offices) 10013(Zip code)(212) 559-1000(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x    No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x     No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and  emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company oEmerging growth company oIf an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  Yes o    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes o    No xNumber of shares of Citigroup Inc. common stock outstanding on March 31, 2018: 2,549,933,493Available on the web at www.citigroup.com CITIGROUP S FIRST QUARTER 2018 FORM 10-Q OVERVIEW1MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND   ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS3Executive Summary3Summary of Selected Financial Data6SEGMENT AND BUSINESS INCOME (LOSS)   AND REVENUES8SEGMENT BALANCE SHEET10Global Consumer Banking (GCB)12North America GCB14Latin America GCB16Asia GCB18Institutional Clients Group20Corporate/Other24OFF-BALANCE SHEET   ARRANGEMENTS25CAPITAL RESOURCES26MANAGING GLOBAL RISK TABLE OF   CONTENTS40MANAGING GLOBAL RISK41INCOME TAXES75FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING   STANDARDS76DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND   PROCEDURES77DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 219 OF   THE IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA   HUMAN RIGHTS ACT77FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS78FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES   TABLE OF CONTENTS81CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS82NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)89UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES,   PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND   DIVIDENDS192OVERVIEWThis Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with Citigroup s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K). Additional information about Citigroup is available on Citi s website at www.citigroup.com. Citigroup s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and proxy statements, as well as other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are available free of charge through Citi s website by clicking on the  Investors  page and selecting  All SEC Filings.  The SEC s website also contains current reports on Form 8-K, and other information regarding Citi at www.sec.gov.Certain reclassifications, including a realignment of certain businesses, have been made to the prior periods  financial statements and disclosures to conform to the current period s presentation. For additional information on certain recent reclassifications, see Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements below and Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Throughout this report,  Citigroup,   Citi  and  the Company  refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.1Citigroup is managed pursuant to two business segments: Global Consumer Banking and Institutional Clients Group, with the remaining operations in Corporate/Other.The following are the four regions in which Citigroup operates. The regional results are fully reflected in the segment results above.(1)Latin America GCB consists of Citi s consumer banking business in Mexico.(2)Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.(3)North America includes the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, Latin America includes Mexico and Asia includes Japan. 2MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSEXECUTIVE SUMMARY First Quarter of 2018 Balanced Operating Results and Continued MomentumAs described further throughout this Executive Summary, Citi reported balanced operating results in the first quarter of 2018, reflecting continued momentum across businesses and geographies, including many of those areas where Citi has been making investments. During the quarter, Citi had revenue and loan growth in the Institutional Clients Group (ICG) and across products and all three regions in Global Consumer Banking (GCB). Citi also continued to demonstrate expense and credit discipline, resulting in positive operating leverage and an improvement in pre-tax earnings. In the first quarter of 2018, Citi continued to return capital to shareholders. During the quarter, Citi returned approximately $3.1 billion in the form of common stock repurchases and dividends and repurchased approximately 30 million common shares as outstanding common shares declined 7% from the prior-year period. Despite the continued progress in improving the capital return for shareholders, each of Citi s key regulatory capital metrics remained strong (see  Capital  below).While global economic growth has continued and the macroeconomic environment remains positive, there continue to be various economic, political and other risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi s businesses and future results. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi s businesses, results of operations and financial condition during 2018, see each respective business s results of operations and  Forward-Looking Statements  below, as well as each respective business s results of operations and the  Managing Global Risk  and  Risk Factors  sections in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.First Quarter of 2018 Summary ResultsCitigroupCitigroup reported net income of $4.6 billion, or $1.68 per share, compared to net income of $4.1 billion, or $1.35 per share, in the prior-year period. The 13% increase in net income was driven by higher revenues and a significantly lower effective tax rate due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform), partially offset by higher expenses and cost of credit. Earnings per share increased 24% due to the growth in net income and a 7% reduction in average shares outstanding driven by the capital return to common shareholders. Citigroup revenues of $18.9 billion in the first quarter of 2018 increased 3%, driven by 7% aggregate growth in GCB and ICG, partially offset by a 51% decrease in Corporate/Other, primarily due to the continued wind-down of legacy assets.Citigroup s end-of-period loans increased 7% to $673 billion versus the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation in U.S. dollars for reporting  purposes (FX translation), Citigroup s end-of-period loans grew 6%, as 7% aggregate growth in GCB and ICG was partially offset by the continued wind-down of legacy assets in Corporate/Other (Citi s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-GAAP financial measures). Citigroup s end-of-period deposits increased 5% to $1.0 trillion versus the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citigroup s deposits were up 3%, driven by a 5% increase in ICG deposits, while GCB deposits were largely unchanged.ExpensesCitigroup operating expenses increased 2% to $10.9 billion versus the prior-year period, as the impact of higher volume-related expenses and ongoing investments were offset by efficiency savings and the wind-down of legacy assets. Year-over-year, ICG operating expenses were up 7% and GCB operating expenses increased 5%, while Corporate/Other operating expenses declined 35%, all versus the prior-year period.Cost of CreditCiti s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims of $1.9 billion increased 12% from the prior-year period. The increase was mostly driven by a $158 million increase in net credit losses, primarily in North America GCB, and a net loan loss reserve release of $36 million, compared to a net loan loss reserve release of $77 million in the prior-year period. The increase reflected volume growth and seasoning in the North America cards portfolios, as well as a lower net reserve release in ICG.Net credit losses of $1.9 billion increased 9% versus the prior-year period. Consumer net credit losses increased 6% to$1.8 billion, mostly reflecting volume growth and seasoning in the North America cards portfolios. The increase in consumer net credit losses was partially offset by the continued wind-down of legacy assets in Corporate/Other. Corporate net credit losses increased $59 million to $96 million.For additional information on Citi s consumer and corporate credit costs and allowance for loan losses, see each respective business s results of operations and  Credit Risk  below.CapitalCitigroup s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios, on a fully implemented basis, were 12.1% and 13.7% as of March 31, 2018 (based on the Basel III Standardized Approach for determining risk-weighted assets), respectively, compared to 12.8% and 14.5% as of March 31, 2017 (based on the Basel III Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets). The decline in regulatory capital ratios reflected the return of capital to common shareholders and the previously disclosed approximate $6 billion reduction in Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital in the fourth quarter of 2017 due to the impact of Tax Reform, partially offset by net income. Citigroup s Supplementary Leverage ratio as of 3March 31, 2018, on a fully implemented basis, was 6.7%, compared to 7.3% as of March 31, 2017. For additional information on Citi s capital ratios and related components, including the impact of Tax Reform on its capital ratios, see  Capital Resources  below.Global Consumer BankingGCB net income of $1.4 billion increased 40%, as higher revenues and a lower effective tax rate were partially offset by higher expenses and higher cost of credit. Operating expenses were $4.7 billion, up 5%, as higher volume-related expenses and continued investments were partially offset by efficiency savings across all three regions.GCB revenues of $8.4 billion increased 7% versus the prior-year period, driven by growth across all regions and the impact of the Hilton portfolio sale in North America Citi-branded cards. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of $150 million, partially offset by the loss of operating revenues, for a net year-over-year benefit of approximately $120 million. North America GCB revenues increased 4% to $5.2 billion, driven by higher revenues across all businesses. Citi-branded cards revenues of $2.2 billion were up 6% versus the prior-year period, driven by the sale of the Hilton portfolio. Excluding Hilton, revenues were roughly flat, as growth in interest-earning balances was mostly offset by higher cost of funds and the impact of additional partnership terms. Citi retail services revenues of $1.6 billion increased 2% versus the prior-year period, primarily reflecting continued loan growth. Retail banking revenues increased 4% from the prior-year period to $1.3 billion. Excluding mortgage revenues, retail banking revenues of $1.2 billion were up 8% from the prior-year period, driven by continued growth in deposit margins, growth in investments and loans and increased commercial banking activity.North America GCB average deposits of $181 billion decreased 2% year-over-year, primarily driven by lower mortgage escrow balances as well as a reduction in money market balances, reflecting transfers to investments. North America GCB average retail loans of $56 billion grew 1% and assets under management of $61 billion grew 10%. Average Citi-branded card loans of $87 billion increased 5%, while Citi-branded card purchase sales of $79 billion increased 8% versus the prior-year period. Average Citi retail services loans of $47 billion increased 4% versus the prior-year period, while Citi retail services purchase sales of $17 billion were up 3%. For additional information on the results of operations of North America GCB for the first quarter of 2018, see  Global Consumer Banking North America GCB  below.International GCB revenues (consisting of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations in certain EMEA countries)) increased 13% versus the prior-year period to $3.3 billion. Excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB revenues increased 8% versus the prior-year period. Latin America GCB revenues increased 8% versus the prior-year period, reflecting growth in cards revenues as well as volume growth across retail loans and deposits and improved deposit spreads. Asia GCB revenues increased 7% (6% excluding a modest one-time gain in the first quarter of 2018) versus the prior-year period, primarily  reflecting an increase in wealth management and cards revenues. For additional information on the results of operations of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB for the first quarter of 2018, including the impact of FX translation, see  Global Consumer Banking Latin America GCB  and  Global Consumer Banking Asia GCB  below.Year-over-year, international GCB average deposits of $128 billion increased 3%, average retail loans of $91 billion increased 4%, assets under management of $103 billion increased 10%, average card loans of $25 billion increased 4% and card purchase sales of $26 billion increased 7%, all excluding the impact of FX translation.Institutional Clients GroupICG net income of $3.3 billion increased 11%, driven by higher revenues and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by higher operating expenses and cost of credit. ICG operating expenses increased 7% to $5.5 billion, driven by the impact of FX translation and a higher level of investment spending.ICG revenues were $9.8 billion in the first quarter of 2018, up 6% from the prior-year period, primarily driven by a 9% increase in Banking revenues and a 3% increase in Markets and securities services. The increase in Banking revenues included the impact of $23 million of gains on loan hedges within corporate lending, compared to losses of $115 million in the prior-year period.Banking revenues of $4.8 billion (excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges within corporate lending) increased 6%, driven by solid growth in treasury and trade solutions, private bank and corporate lending, partially offset by lower revenues in investment banking. Investment banking revenues of $1.1 billion decreased 10% versus the prior-year period, reflecting declines in the overall market wallet and the timing of episodic deal activity. Advisory revenues decreased 14% to $215 million, equity underwriting revenues decreased 14% to $216 million and debt underwriting revenues decreased 8% to $699 million, all versus the prior-year period.Private bank revenues increased 21% to $904 million, versus the prior-year period, driven by growth in clients, loans, investments and deposits, as well as improved deposit spreads. Corporate lending revenues increased 68% to $544 million. Excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges, corporate lending revenues increased 19% versus the prior-year period, primarily driven by loan growth and lower hedging costs. Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $2.3 billion increased 8% versus the prior-year period, reflecting volume growth and improved deposit spreads, with growth in both net interest and fee income.Markets and securities services revenues of $5.0 billion increased 3% from the prior-year period, as strong revenue growth in equity markets and securities services was partially offset by a decline in fixed income markets revenues. Fixed income markets revenues of $3.4 billion decreased 7% from the prior-year period, driven by a less favorable environment and lower investor client activity in G10 rates and spread products, partially offset by strong corporate client activity in G10 foreign exchange and local markets rates and currencies. Equity markets revenues of $1.1 billion increased 38% from the prior-year period, with growth across all products, as 4volatility increased and momentum with investor clients continued. Securities services revenues of $641 million increased 16%, driven by continued growth in client volumes and higher interest revenue. For additional information on the results of operations of ICG for the first quarter of 2018, see  Institutional Clients Group  below.Corporate/OtherCorporate/Other net loss was $86 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to net income of $97 million in the prior-year period, reflecting lower revenues, partially offset by lower operating expenses. Operating expenses of $741 million declined 35% from the prior-year period, largely reflecting the wind-down of legacy assets.Corporate/Other revenues were $591 million, down 51% from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting the continued wind-down of legacy assets. For additional information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other for the first quarter of 2018, see  Corporate/Other  below.5RESULTS OF OPERATIONSSUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA PAGE 1Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated SubsidiariesTable continues on the next page, including footnotes.6SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA PAGE 2(1)The first quarter of 2018 reflects the impact of Tax Reform. For additional information on Tax Reform, including the impact on Citi s fourth quarter and full-year 2017 results, see Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.(2)See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Citi s discontinued operations.(3)The return on average common stockholders  equity is calculated using net income less preferred stock dividends divided by average common stockholders  equity. The return on average total Citigroup stockholders  equity is calculated using net income divided by average Citigroup stockholders  equity.(4)Citi s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were the lower derived under the U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach at March 31, 2018, and U.S. Basel III Advanced Approaches at March 31, 2017. Citi s reportable Total Capital ratios were derived under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approaches for both periods presented. This reflects the U.S. Basel III requirement to report the lower of risk-based capital ratios under both the Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches in accordance with the Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act. (5)Citi s risk-based capital and leverage ratios as of March 31, 2017 are non-GAAP financial measures, which reflect full implementation of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions prior to the effective date of January 1, 2018.(6)Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share.(7)Total common dividends declared plus common stock repurchases as a percentage of net income available to common shareholders. See  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders  Equity,  Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and  Equity Security Repurchases  below for the component details. (8)For information on TBV, see  Capital Resources Tangible Common Equity, Book Value Per Share, Tangible Book Value Per Share and Returns on Equity  below.NM Not meaningful7SEGMENT AND BUSINESS INCOME (LOSS) AND REVENUESCITIGROUP INCOME(1)Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.NM Not meaningful8CITIGROUP REVENUES(1)Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.9SEGMENT BALANCE SHEET(1) (1)The supplemental information presented in the table above reflects Citigroup s consolidated GAAP balance sheet by reporting segment as of March 31, 2018. The respective segment information depicts the assets and liabilities managed by each segment as of such date.(2)Consolidating eliminations for total Citigroup and Citigroup parent company assets and liabilities are recorded within Corporate/Other.(3)The total stockholders  equity and the majority of long-term debt of Citigroup reside in the Citigroup parent company Consolidated Balance Sheet. Citigroup allocates stockholders  equity and long-term debt to its businesses through inter-segment allocations as shown above.(4)Represents the attribution of Citigroup s liquid assets (primarily consisting of cash, marketable equity securities, and available-for-sale debt securities) to the various businesses based on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) assumptions.(5)Corporate/Other equity represents noncontrolling interests. 10This page intentionally left blank.11GLOBAL CONSUMER BANKING Global Consumer Banking (GCB) consists of consumer banking businesses in North America, Latin America (consisting of Citi s consumer banking business in Mexico) and Asia. GCB provides traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, including commercial banking, and Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services (for additional information on these businesses, see  Citigroup Segments  above). GCB is focused on its priority markets in the U.S., Mexico and Asia with 2,433 branches in 19 countries and jurisdictions as of March 31, 2018. At March 31, 2018, GCB had approximately $423 billion in assets and $314 billion in deposits.      GCB s overall strategy is to leverage Citi s global footprint and be the pre-eminent bank for the emerging affluent and affluent consumers in large urban centers. In credit cards and in certain retail markets, Citi serves customers in a somewhat broader set of segments and geographies.Table continues on the next page, including footnotes.12(1)Includes both Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services.(2)Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the first quarter of 2018 average exchange rates for all periods presented.(3)Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure. NM Not meaningful13NORTH AMERICA GCBNorth America GCB provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services card products to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, as applicable, in the U.S. North America GCB s U.S. cards product portfolio includes its proprietary portfolio (including the Citi Double Cash, Thank You and Value cards) and co-branded cards (including, among others, American Airlines and Costco) within Citi-branded cards as well as its co-brand and private label relationships (including, among others, Sears, The Home Depot, Best Buy and Macy s) within Citi retail services.As of March 31, 2018, North America GCB s 694 retail bank branches are concentrated in the six key metropolitan areas of New York, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and San Francisco. Also as of March 31, 2018, North America GCB had approximately 9.1 million retail banking customer accounts, $55.4 billion in retail banking loans and $184.3 billion in deposits. In addition, North America GCB had approximately 119.3 million Citi-branded and Citi retail services credit card accounts with $131.7 billion in outstanding card loan balances. NM Not meaningful141Q18 vs. 1Q17 Net income increased 36% due to higher revenues and a lower effective tax rate due to the impact of Tax Reform, partially offset by higher expenses and higher cost of credit.Revenues increased 4%, reflecting higher revenues across retail banking, Citi retail services and Citi-branded cards, which included the impact of the Hilton portfolio sale (see below).Retail banking revenues increased 4%. Excluding mortgage revenues (decline of 18%), retail banking revenues were up 8%, driven by continued growth in deposit margins, growth in both assets under management (up 10%) and average loans (up 1%), as well as increased commercial banking activity. The decline in mortgage revenues was driven by lower origination activity and higher cost of funds reflecting the higher interest rate environment. Cards revenues increased 4%. In Citi-branded cards, revenues increased 6%, driven by the impact of the Hilton portfolio sale, which resulted in a gain of approximately $150 million in the first quarter of 2018, partially offset by the loss of operating revenues, for a net year-over-year benefit of approximately $120 million. Excluding Hilton, revenues were largely unchanged, as growth in interest-earning balances was offset by higher cost of funds and the impact of additional partnership terms. Average loans increased 5% and purchase sales increased 8%.Citi retail services revenues increased 2%, reflecting continued loan growth. Average loans increased 4% and purchase sales increased 3%.Expenses increased 2%, as higher volume-related expenses and continued investments were partially offset by efficiency savings.Provisions increased 5% from the prior-year period, driven by higher net credit losses, partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve build.Net credit losses increased 9% to $1.3 billion, largely driven by higher net credit losses in Citi-branded cards (up 3% to $651 million) and Citi retail services (up 16% to $602 million). The increase in net credit losses primarily reflected volume growth and seasoning in both cards portfolios as well as an increase in net flow rates in later delinquency buckets versus the prior-year period, primarily in Citi retail services.The net loan loss reserve build in the first quarter of 2018 was $119 million (compared to a build of $159 million in the prior-year period), as volume growth and seasoning in both cards portfolios were partially offset by a loan loss reserve release in the commercial portfolio. For additional information on North America GCB s retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios, see  Credit Risk Consumer Credit  below.15LATIN AMERICA GCBLatin America GCB provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded card products to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses in Mexico through Citibanamex, one of Mexico s largest banks. At March 31, 2018, Latin America GCB had 1,462 retail branches in Mexico, with approximately 28.2 million retail banking customer accounts, $21.2 billion in retail banking loans and $29.6 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 5.7 million Citi-branded card accounts with $5.7 billion in outstanding loan balances.16(1)Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the first quarter of 2018 average exchange rates for all periods presented.(2)Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure. NM Not meaningfulThe discussion of the results of operations for Latin America GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.1Q18 vs. 1Q17 Net income increased 24%, reflecting higher revenues and a lower effective tax rate as a result of Tax Reform, partially offset by higher expenses and cost of credit.Revenues increased 8%, driven by higher revenues inboth retail banking and cards.Retail banking revenues increased 7%, reflecting continued growth in volumes (average loans up 5% and average deposits up 6%), largely driven by the commercial banking business and mortgages, as well as improved deposit spreads, driven by higher interest rates. Cards revenues increased 13%, reflecting continued growth in purchase sales (up 10%) and full-rate revolving loans, as well as favorable comparisons to the first quarter of 2017. Average card loans grew 8%. Expenses increased 8%, as ongoing investment spending and business growth were partially offset by efficiency savings.Provisions increased 11%, primarily driven by a higher net loan loss reserve build ($43 million), largely reflecting volume growth and seasoning.For additional information on Latin America GCB s retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded cards portfolios, see  Credit Risk Consumer Credit  below. 17ASIA GCBAsia GCB provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded card products to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, as applicable. During the first quarter of 2018, Citi s most significant revenues in the region were from Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea, India, Australia, Taiwan, Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia. Included within Asia GCB, traditional retail banking and Citi-branded card products are also provided to retail customers in certain EMEA countries, primarily Poland, Russia and the United Arab Emirates. At March 31, 2018, on a combined basis, the businesses had 277 retail branches, approximately 15.9 million retail banking customer accounts, $70.8 billion in retail banking loans and $100.5 billion in deposits. In addition, the businesses had approximately 16.2 million Citi-branded card accounts with $19.2 billion in outstanding loan balances. 18(1)Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.(2)Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the first quarter of 2018 average exchange rates for all periods presented.(3)Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure. NM Not meaningfulThe discussion of the results of operations for Asia GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.1Q18 vs. 1Q17 Net income increased 46%, reflecting higher revenues, a lower effective tax rate as a result of Tax Reform and lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses.Revenues increased 7%, driven by solid growth in both retail banking and cards.Retail banking revenues increased 8%, reflecting strong growth in wealth management and a modest one-time gain. Excluding the gain, retail banking revenues grew 6%. Wealth management revenues increased due to continued improvement in investor sentiment, stronger equity markets and increases in assets under management (14%) and investment sales (32%). Average deposits increased 2%. Retail lending revenues modestly improved (up 1%), as an increase in volumes (average loans up 3%) was largely offset by spread compression. Cards revenues increased 5%, reflecting 3% growth in average loans and 7% growth in purchase sales, both of which benefited from the previously disclosed portfolio acquisition in Australia in the first quarter of 2017. Expenses increased 3%, resulting from volume growth and ongoing investment spending, partially offset by efficiency savings.Provisions decreased 20%, primarily driven by a net loan loss reserve release compared to a net loan loss reserve build in the prior-year period. Overall credit quality continued to remain stable in the region.For additional information on Asia GCB s retail banking, including commercial banking, and its Citi-branded cards portfolios, see  Credit Risk Consumer Credit  below. 19INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUPInstitutional Clients Group (ICG) includes Banking and Markets and securities services (for additional information on these businesses, see  Citigroup Segments  above). ICG provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients around the world with a full range of wholesale banking products and services, including fixed income and equity sales and trading, foreign exchange, prime brokerage, derivative services, equity and fixed income research, corporate lending, investment banking and advisory services, private banking, cash management, trade finance and securities services. ICG transacts with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity and commodity products.ICG revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. ICG earns fee income for assisting clients with transactional services and clearing, providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Such fees are recognized at the point in time when Citigroup s performance under the terms of a contractual arrangement is completed, which is typically at the trade/execution date or closing of a transaction. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees and Investment banking. Revenue is also generated from assets under custody and administration which is recognized as/when the associated promised service is satisfied, which normally occurs at the point in time the service is requested by the customer and provided by Citi. Revenue generated from these activities is primarily recorded in Administration and other fiduciary fees. For additional information on these various types of revenues, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.In addition, as a market maker, ICG facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns the differential between the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are recorded in Principal transactions (for additional information on Principal transactions revenue, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Other primarily includes mark-to-market gains and losses on certain credit derivatives, gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities, gains and losses on equity securities not held in trading accounts, and other non-recurring gains and losses. Interest income earned on assets held, less interest paid to customers on deposits and long- and short-term debt, is recorded as Net interest revenue. The amount and types of Markets revenues are impacted by a variety of interrelated factors, including market liquidity; changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads, as well as their implied volatilities; investor confidence; and other macroeconomic conditions. Assuming all other market conditions do not change, increases in client activity levels or bid/offer spreads generally result in increases in revenues. However, changes in market conditions can significantly impact client activity levels, bid/offer spreads and the fair value of product inventory. For example, a decrease in market liquidity may increase bid/offer spreads, decrease client activity levels and widen credit spreads on product inventory positions. ICG s management of the Markets businesses involves daily monitoring and evaluating of the above factors at the trading desk as well as the country level. ICG does not separately track the impact on total Markets revenues of the volume of transactions, bid/offer spreads, fair value changes of product inventory positions and economic hedges because, as noted above, these components are interrelated and are not deemed useful or necessary individually to manage the Markets businesses at an aggregate level.In the Markets businesses, client revenues are those revenues directly attributable to client transactions at the time of inception, including commissions, interest or fees earned. Client revenues do not include the results of client facilitation activities (for example, holding product inventory in anticipation of client demand) or the results of certain economic hedging activities.ICG s international presence is supported by trading floors in approximately 80 countries and a proprietary network in 98 countries and jurisdictions. At March 31, 2018, ICG had approximately $1.4 trillion of assets and $666 billion of deposits, while two of its businesses securities services and issuer services managed approximately $17.7 trillion of assets under custody compared to $15.9 trillion at the end of the prior-year period. 20NM Not meaningful21ICG Revenue Details Excluding Gains (Losses) on Loan Hedges(1)Credit derivatives are used to economically hedge a portion of the corporate loan portfolio that includes both accrual loans and loans at fair value. Gains (losses) on loan hedges include the mark-to-market on the credit derivatives and the mark-to-market on the loans in the portfolio that are at fair value. The fixed premium costs of these hedges are netted against the corporate lending revenues to reflect the cost of credit protection. Citigroup s results of operations excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges are non-GAAP financial measures.(2)    Excludes principal transactions revenues of ICG businesses other than Markets, primarily treasury and trade solutions and the private bank.NM Not meaningful1Q18 vs. 1Q17 Net income increased 11%, driven by higher revenues and a lower effective tax rate due to the impact of Tax Reform, partially offset by higher expenses and cost of credit. Revenues increased 6%, driven by higher revenues in Banking (increase of 9%; increase of 6% excluding gains (losses) on loan hedges) and higher revenues in Markets  and securities services (increase of 3%). The increase in Banking revenues was driven by continued strong momentum and performance in treasury and trade solutions, private bank and corporate lending, partially offset by investment banking. Markets and securities services revenues reflected solid growth in equity markets and securities services, partially offset by a decline in fixed income markets. Citi expects Markets and securities services revenues will likely continue to reflect the overall 22market environment during the remainder of 2018, including a normal seasonal decline sequentially in the second quarter of 2018.Within Banking: Investment banking revenues declined 10%, driven by a decline in overall market wallet from the prior-year period, particularly in North America. Advisory and equity underwriting revenues both declined 14% versus the prior-year period, reflecting the decline in market wallet as well as timing of episodic deal activity. Debt underwriting revenues decreased 8% due to a decline in market wallet and wallet share. Treasury and trade solutions revenues increased 8%, reflecting strong growth across both net interest and fee income. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues increased 6%, primarily reflecting strength in EMEA and Asia. Revenue growth in the cash business was primarily driven by higher transaction volumes from both new and existing clients, continued growth in deposit balances and improved deposit spreads across most regions. Growth in the trade business was driven by episodic fees and continued focus on high-quality loan growth, but was partially offset by industry-wide tightening of loan spreads. Average deposit balances increased 6% (3% excluding the impact of FX translation). Average loans increased 10% (7% excluding the impact of FX translation), driven by strong loan growth in Asia and EMEA. Corporate lending revenues increased from $323 million to $544 million. Excluding the impact of gains/losses on loan hedges, revenues increased 19% versus the prior-year period. The increase in revenues was driven by lower hedging costs and higher loan volumes. Average loans increased 11% versus the prior-year period.  Private bank revenues increased 21%, driven by strong momentum in client activity across all products and regions. Revenue growth reflected higher loan and deposit volumes, higher deposit spreads, higher managed investments revenues and increased capital markets activity. Within Markets and securities services: Fixed income markets revenues decreased 7%, primarily due to lower revenues in North America. The decline in revenues was largely driven by lower net interest revenue (decrease of 24%) in both rates and currencies and spread products, mainly due to a change in the mix of trading positions in support of client activity as well as higher funding costs, given the higher interest rate environment. The decline in revenues was also due to lower principal transactions revenues (decrease of 7%), reflecting lower investor client activity in a less favorable and more volatile market environment than the prior-year period, particularly in G10 rates and spread products in March.Rates and currencies revenues decreased 2%, driven by lower G10 rates revenues due to the lower investor client activity and a less favorable trading environment in  North America, and the comparison to a strong prior-year period in EMEA. The decline in G10 rates was largely offset by an increase in G10 foreign exchange revenues that benefited from the return of volatility in the currency markets as well as strong corporate client activity in both G10 foreign exchange and local markets rates and currencies.Spread products and other fixed income revenues decreased 17%, primarily driven by lower revenues in credit markets in North America and EMEA due to lower investor client activity and the comparison to a strong prior-year period. The year-over-year revenue decline was also driven by lower municipal products revenues in North America, largely due to the comparison to a strong prior-year period, where municipals markets recovered post U.S. elections. Equity markets revenues increased 38%, with growth across all products, reflecting strength in Asia, North America and EMEA, given the favorable operating environment with higher volatility and increased client activity, particularly with investor clients. Equity derivatives revenues increased across all regions, benefiting from both improved overall market conditions and continued client momentum, in line with the business  investment strategy. The increase in equity markets revenues was also driven by growth in cash equities and higher balances in prime finance. Principal transactions revenues increased, reflecting client facilitation gains in the favorable trading environment. Securities services revenues increased 16%, reflecting particular strength in EMEA and Asia. The increase in revenues was driven by growth in fee revenues from higher assets under custody and increased client activity, as well as higher net interest revenue driven by higher deposit volume and higher interest rates.Expenses increased 7%, largely driven by the impact of FX translation and a higher level of investment spending.Provisions increased $164 million to a benefit of $41 million, primarily due to lower releases in the current period and higher net credit losses ($105 million in 2018, compared to $25 million in 2017). Net credit losses in 2018 were largely offset by previously established loan loss reserves, due to the continued stability in commodities prices and net ratings upgrades.23CORPORATE/OTHERCorporate/Other includes certain unallocated costs of global staff functions (including finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses, Corporate Treasury, certain North America and international legacy consumer loan portfolios, other legacy assets and discontinued operations (for additional information on Corporate/Other, see  Citigroup Segments  above). At March 31, 2018, Corporate/Other had $92 billion in assets, a decrease of 4% year-over-year. First Quarter In millions of dollars20182017% ChangeNet interest revenue$538$558(4)%Non-interest revenue53643(92)Total revenues, net of interest expense$591$1,201(51)%Total operating expenses$741$1,134(35)%Net credit losses$26$81(68)%Credit reserve build (release)(33)(35)6Provision (release) for unfunded lending commitments 1(100)Provision for benefits and claims 5(100)Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims$(7)$52NMIncome (loss) from continuing operations before taxes$(143)$15NMIncome taxes (benefits)(69)(94)27Income (loss) from continuing operations$(74)$109NMIncome (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes(7)(18)61Net income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests$(81)$91NMNoncontrolling interests5(6)NMNet income (loss)$(86)$97NM1Q18 vs. 1Q17 The net loss was $86 million, compared to net income of $97 million in the prior-year period, due to lower revenues, partially offset by lower expenses. Revenues decreased 51%, driven by the continued wind-down of legacy assets.Expenses decreased 35%, primarily driven by the wind-down of legacy assets and lower legal and related expenses. Citi expects that revenues and expenses in Corporate/Other should continue to decline with the ongoing wind-down of legacy assets during the remainder of 2018.Provisions decreased $59 million to a net benefit of $7 million, primarily due to lower net credit losses. Net credit losses declined 68% to $26 million, primarily reflecting the impact of ongoing divestiture activity. 24OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSThe table below shows where a discussion of Citi s various off-balance sheet arrangements in this Form 10-Q may be found. For additional information, see  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  and Notes 1, 21 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Types of Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Disclosures in this Form 10-Q Variable interests and other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from variable interests in nonconsolidated VIEsSee Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Letters of credit, and lending and other commitmentsSee Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.GuaranteesSee Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.25CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Capital is used principally to support assets in Citi s businesses and to absorb credit, market and operational losses. Citi primarily generates capital through earnings from its operating businesses. Citi may augment its capital through issuances of common stock, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and equity issued through awards under employee benefit plans, among other issuances. Further, Citi s capital levels may also be affected by changes in accounting and regulatory standards, as well as U.S. corporate tax laws and the impact of future events on Citi s business results, such as changes in interest and foreign exchange rates, as well as business and asset dispositions.During the first quarter of 2018, Citi returned a total of $3.1 billion of capital to common shareholders in the form of share repurchases (approximately 30 million common shares) and dividends. Capital ManagementCiti s capital management framework is designed to ensure that Citigroup and its principal subsidiaries maintain sufficient capital consistent with each entity s respective risk profile, management targets and all applicable regulatory standards and guidelines. Based on Citigroup s current regulatory capital requirements, as well as consideration of potential future changes to the U.S. Basel III rules, management currently believes that a targeted Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of approximately 11.5% represents the amount necessary to prudently operate and invest in Citi s franchise, including when considering future growth plans, capital return projections and other factors that may impact Citi s businesses. However, management may revise Citigroup s targeted Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio in response to changing regulatory capital requirements as well as other relevant factors. For additional information regarding Citi s capital management, see  Capital Resources Capital Management  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Stress Testing Component of Capital PlanningCiti is subject to an annual assessment by the Federal Reserve Board as to whether Citigroup has effective capital planning processes as well as sufficient regulatory capital to absorb losses during stressful economic and financial conditions, while also meeting obligations to creditors and counterparties and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary. This annual assessment includes two related programs: the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST). For additional information regarding the stress testing component of capital planning, including a recent proposed rulemaking and other potential changes in Citi s regulatory capital requirements and future CCAR processes, see  Regulatory Capital Standards Developments  and   Forward-Looking Statements  below and  Capital Resources Current Regulatory Capital Standards Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning  and  Risk Factors Strategic Risks  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Current Regulatory Capital StandardsCiti is subject to regulatory capital standards issued by the Federal Reserve Board, which constitute the U.S. Basel III rules. These rules establish an integrated capital adequacy framework, encompassing both risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios. For additional information regarding the risk-based capital ratios, Tier 1 Leverage ratio and Supplementary Leverage ratio, see  Capital Resources Current Regulatory Capital Standards  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information regarding a recent proposed rulemaking that would modify the enhanced Supplementary Leverage ratio standards applicable to U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIBs) and certain of their insured depository institution subsidiaries, see  Regulatory Capital Standards Developments  below.GSIB SurchargeThe Federal Reserve Board also adopted a rule that imposes a risk-based capital surcharge upon U.S. GSIBs, including Citi. Citi s GSIB surcharge effective for 2018 remains unchanged from 2017 at 3.0%. For additional information regarding the identification of a GSIB and the methodology for annually determining the GSIB surcharge, see  Capital Resources Current Regulatory Capital Standards GSIB Surcharge  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Transition ProvisionsThe U.S. Basel III rules contain several differing, largely multi-year transition provisions (i.e.,  phase-ins  and  phase-outs ). Moreover, the GSIB surcharge, Capital Conservation Buffer, and any Countercyclical Capital Buffer (currently 0%), commenced phase-in on January 1, 2016, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019. With the exception of the non-grandfathered trust preferred securities, which do not fully phase-out until January 1, 2022, and the capital buffers and GSIB surcharge, which do not fully phase-in until January 1, 2019, all other transition provisions are entirely reflected in Citi s regulatory capital ratios beginning January 1, 2018. Accordingly, commencing with the first quarter of 2018, Citi is presenting a single set of regulatory capital components and ratios, reflecting current regulatory capital standards in effect throughout 2018. Citi previously disclosed its Basel III risk-based capital and leverage ratios and related components reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements with respect to regulatory capital adjustments and deductions, as well as Full Implementation, in Citi s 2017 26Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; however, beginning January 1, 2018, that distinction is no longer relevant. For additional information regarding the transition provisions under the U.S. Basel III rules, including with respect to the GSIB surcharge, see  Capital Resources Current Regulatory Capital Standards Transition Provisions  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding Citigroup s capital resources reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements as of December 31, 2017, see  Capital Resources Current Regulatory Capital Standards Citigroup s Capital Resources Under Current Regulatory Standards  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Citigroup s Capital Resources Citi is required to maintain stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios of 4.5%, 6.0% and 8.0%, respectively. Citi s effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios during 2018, inclusive of the 75% phase-in of both the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and the 3.0% GSIB surcharge (all of which is to be composed of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital), are 8.625%, 10.125% and 12.125%, respectively. Citi s effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios during 2017,  inclusive of the 50% phase-in of both the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and the 3.0% GSIB surcharge (all of which is to be composed of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital), were 7.25%, 8.75% and 10.75%, respectively. Citi currently estimates that its effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratio requirements during 2019, inclusive of the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and the Countercyclical Capital Buffer at its current level of 0%, as well as a 3.0% GSIB surcharge, may be 10.0%, 11.5% and 13.5%, respectively. Furthermore, to be  well capitalized  under current federal bank regulatory agency definitions, a bank holdingcompany must have a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at least 6.0%, a Total Capital ratio of at least 10.0%, and not be subject to a Federal Reserve Board directive to maintain higher capital levels.Under the U.S. Basel III rules, Citi must comply with a 4.0% minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio requirement. Effective January 1, 2018, Citi must also comply with an effective 5.0% minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement. The following tables set forth the capital tiers, total risk-weighted assets and underlying risk components, risk-based capital ratios, quarterly adjusted average total assets, Total Leverage Exposure and leverage ratios for Citi as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.Citigroup Capital Components and Ratios(1)As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Citi s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were the lower derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach, whereas the reportable Total Capital ratio was the lower derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework. (2)Citi s risk-based capital and leverage ratios and related components as of December 31, 2017 are non-GAAP financial measures, which reflect full implementation of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions prior to the effective date of January 1, 2018.(3)Tier 1 Leverage ratio denominator. (4)Supplementary Leverage ratio denominator. 27As indicated in the table above, Citigroup s risk-based capital ratios at March 31, 2018 were in excess of the stated and effective minimum requirements under the U.S. Basel III rules. In addition, Citi was also  well capitalized  under current federal bank regulatory agency definitions as of March 31, 2018. Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Citi s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 12.1% at March 31, 2018, compared to 12.4% at December 31, 2017. The quarter-over-quarter decline in the ratio was primarily due to an increase in credit risk-weighted assets driven by loan growth and client activity, as well as the return of $3.1 billion of capital to common shareholders, partially offset by quarterly net income of $4.6 billion.28Components of Citigroup Capital In millions of dollarsMarch 31, 2018December 31, 2017Common Equity Tier 1 Capital  Citigroup common stockholders  equity(1)$182,943$181,671Add: Qualifying noncontrolling interests140153Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:  Less: Accumulated net unrealized losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax(2)(920)(698)Less: Cumulative unrealized net loss related to changes in fair value of    financial liabilities attributable to own creditworthiness, net of tax(3)(498)(721)Less: Intangible assets:  Goodwill, net of related DTLs(4) 22,48222,052Identifiable intangible assets other than MSRs, net of related DTLs 4,2094,401Less: Defined benefit pension plan net assets871896Less: DTAs arising from net operating loss, foreign tax credit and general   business credit carry-forwards(5) 12,81113,072Total Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches)$144,128$142,822Additional Tier 1 Capital  Qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock(1)$18,972$19,069Qualifying trust preferred securities(6)1,3791,377Qualifying noncontrolling interests5961Regulatory Capital Deductions:  Less: Permitted ownership interests in covered funds(7)997900Less: Minimum regulatory capital requirements of insurance underwriting subsidiaries(8)5152Total Additional Tier 1 Capital (Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches)$19,362$19,555Total Tier 1 Capital (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital + Additional Tier 1 Capital)      (Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches)$163,490$162,377Tier 2 Capital  Qualifying subordinated debt$23,430$23,673Qualifying trust preferred securities(9)334329Qualifying noncontrolling interests5150Eligible allowance for credit losses(10)13,63813,612Regulatory Capital Deduction:  Less: Minimum regulatory capital requirements of insurance underwriting subsidiaries(8)5152Total Tier 2 Capital (Standardized Approach)$37,402$37,612Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital) (Standardized Approach)$200,892$199,989Adjustment for excess of eligible credit reserves over expected credit losses(10)$(12,224)$(12,112)Total Tier 2 Capital (Advanced Approaches)$25,178$25,500Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital) (Advanced Approaches)$188,668$187,877(1)Issuance costs of $184 million related to noncumulative perpetual preferred stock outstanding at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are excluded from common stockholders  equity and netted against such preferred stock in accordance with Federal Reserve Board regulatory reporting requirements, which differ from those under U.S. GAAP. (2)Common Equity Tier 1 Capital is adjusted for accumulated net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges included in AOCI that relate to the hedging of items not recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.(3)The cumulative impact of changes in Citigroup s own creditworthiness in valuing liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected, and own-credit valuation adjustments on derivatives, are excluded from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, in accordance with the U.S. Basel III rules. (4)Includes goodwill  embedded  in the valuation of significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions. Footnotes continue on the following page.29(5)Of Citi s $23.0 billion of net DTAs at March 31, 2018, $11.0 billion were includable in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital pursuant to the U.S. Basel III rules, while $12.0 billion were excluded. Excluded from Citi s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital as of March 31, 2018 was $12.8 billion of net DTAs arising from net operating loss, foreign tax credit and general business credit carry-forwards, which was reduced by $0.8 billion of net DTLs primarily associated with goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Separately, under the U.S. Basel III rules, goodwill and these other intangible assets are deducted net of associated DTLs in arriving at Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. DTAs arising from net operating loss, foreign tax credit and general business credit carry-forwards are required to be entirely deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules. Commencing with December 31, 2017, Citi s DTAs arising from temporary differences were less than the 10% limitation under the U.S. Basel III rules and therefore not subject to deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, but are subject to risk-weighting at 250%.(6)Represents Citigroup Capital XIII trust preferred securities, which are permanently grandfathered as Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules. (7)Banking entities are required to be in compliance with the Volcker Rule of the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits conducting certain proprietary investment activities and limits their ownership of, and relationships with, covered funds. Accordingly, Citi is required by the Volcker Rule to deduct from Tier 1 Capital all permitted ownership interests in covered funds that were acquired after December 31, 2013. (8)50% of the minimum regulatory capital requirements of insurance underwriting subsidiaries must be deducted from each of Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital.(9)Represents the amount of non-grandfathered trust preferred securities eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules, which will be fully phased-out of Tier 2 Capital by January 1, 2022. (10)Under the Standardized Approach, the allowance for credit losses is eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets, with any excess allowance for credit losses being deducted in arriving at credit risk-weighted assets, which differs from the Advanced Approaches framework, in which eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses are eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital to the extent the excess reserves do not exceed 0.6% of credit risk-weighted assets. The total amount of eligible credit reserves in excess of expected credit losses that were eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital, subject to limitation, under the Advanced Approaches framework was $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 30Citigroup Capital Rollforward In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended  March 31, 2018Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, beginning of period$142,822Net income4,620Common and preferred stock dividends declared(1,098)Net increase in treasury stock(1,806)Net decrease in common stock and additional paid-in capital(409)Net decrease in foreign currency translation adjustment net of hedges, net of tax1,120Net increase in unrealized losses on debt securities AFS, net of tax(1,061)Net decrease in defined benefit plans liability adjustment, net of tax88Net change in adjustment related to changes in fair value of financial liabilities     attributable to own creditworthiness, net of tax(95)Net increase in ASC 815 excluded Component of Fair Value Hedges(4)Net increase in goodwill, net of related DTLs(430)Net decrease in identifiable intangible assets other than MSRs, net of related DTLs 192Net decrease in defined benefit pension plan net assets25Net decrease in DTAs arising from net operating loss, foreign tax credit and      general business credit carry-forwards 261Other(97)Net increase in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital$1,306Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, end of period     (Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches) $144,128Additional Tier 1 Capital, beginning of period$19,555Net decrease in qualifying perpetual preferred stock(97)Net increase in qualifying trust preferred securities2Net increase in permitted ownership interests in covered funds (97)Other(1)Net decrease in Additional Tier 1 Capital $(193)Tier 1 Capital, end of period     (Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches)$163,490Tier 2 Capital, beginning of period (Standardized Approach)$37,612Net decrease in qualifying subordinated debt(243)Net increase in eligible allowance for credit losses26Other7Net decrease in Tier 2 Capital (Standardized Approach)$(210)Tier 2 Capital, end of period (Standardized Approach) $37,402Total Capital, end of period (Standardized Approach)$200,892  Tier 2 Capital, beginning of period (Advanced Approaches)$25,500Net decrease in qualifying subordinated debt(243)Net decrease in excess of eligible credit reserves over expected credit losses(86)Other 7Net decrease in Tier 2 Capital (Advanced Approaches)$(322)Tier 2 Capital, end of period (Advanced Approaches)$25,178Total Capital, end of period (Advanced Approaches)$188,66831Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Standardized Approach) In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended  March 31, 2018 Total Risk-Weighted Assets, beginning of period$1,155,099Changes in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets Net decrease in general credit risk exposures(1)(1,252)Net increase in repo-style transactions(2)8,253Net increase in securitization exposures1,827Net increase in equity exposures878Net increase in over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives(3)10,433Net increase in other exposures(4)7,952Net increase in off-balance sheet exposures(5)8,139Net increase in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets$36,230Changes in Market Risk-Weighted Assets Net increase in risk levels(6)$7,232Net decrease due to model and methodology updates(7)(2,580)Net increase in Market Risk-Weighted Assets $4,652Total Risk-Weighted Assets, end of period$1,195,981(1)General credit risk exposures include cash and balances due from depository institutions, securities, and loans and leases. General credit risk exposures increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to corporate loan growth.(2)Repo-style transactions include repurchase or reverse repurchase transactions and securities borrowing or securities lending transactions. (3)OTC derivatives increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to increased notional amounts for bilateral trades resulting from increased seasonal business activity.(4)Other exposures include cleared transactions, unsettled transactions, and other assets. Other exposures increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to additional DTAs arising from temporary differences, which are subject to risk-weighting at 250%. (5)Off-balance sheet exposures increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to an increase in commitments to extend credit that will drive future corporate loan growth.(6)Risk levels increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to increases in exposure levels subject to Stressed Value at Risk and Value at Risk.(7)Risk-weighted assets declined during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to methodology changes for standard specific risk charges. 32Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Advanced Approaches) In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended  March 31, 2018 Total Risk-Weighted Assets, beginning of period$1,152,644Changes in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets Net decrease in retail exposures(1)(9,405)Net increase in wholesale exposures(2)9,288Net increase in repo-style transactions(3)4,189Net increase in securitization exposures1,980Net increase in equity exposures1,029Net increase in over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives(4)3,047Net increase in derivatives CVA(5)7,120Net increase in other exposures(6)5,196Net increase in supervisory 6% multiplier(7)920Net increase in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets$23,364Changes in Market Risk-Weighted Assets Net increase in risk levels(8)$7,154Net decrease due to model and methodology updates(9)(2,580)Net increase in Market Risk-Weighted Assets $4,574Net decrease in Operational Risk-Weighted Assets(10)$(2,455)Total Risk-Weighted Assets, end of period$1,178,127(1)Retail exposures decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to reductions in qualifying revolving (cards) exposures attributable to seasonal holding spending repayments.(2)Wholesale exposures increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to increases in commercial loans and loan commitments.(3)Repo-style transactions include repurchase or reverse repurchase transactions and securities borrowing or securities lending transactions. (4)OTC derivatives increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to increases in notional amounts, potential future exposure and fair value for bilateral trades.(5)Derivatives CVA increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to increased volatility and exposures.(6)Other exposures include cleared transactions, unsettled transactions, assets other than those reportable in specific exposure categories and non-material portfolios. Other exposures increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to additional temporary difference deferred tax assets subject to risk weighting.(7)Supervisory 6% multiplier does not apply to derivatives CVA. (8)Risk levels increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to increases in exposure levels subject to Stressed Value at Risk and Value at Risk.(9)Risk-weighted assets declined during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to methodology changes for standard specific risk charges.(10)Operational risk-weighted assets decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to changes in operational loss severity and frequency. As set forth in the table above, total risk-weighted assets under the Basel III Standardized Approach increased from year-end 2017, substantially due to higher credit risk-weighted assets, primarily resulting from increased OTC derivative trade activity, additional temporary difference deferred tax assets subject to risk weighting and an increase in corporate loan commitments.Total risk-weighted assets under the Basel III Advanced Approaches increased from year-end 2017, driven by substantially higher credit risk-weighted assets as well as an increase in market risk-weighted assets, partially offset by a decrease in operational risk-weighted assets. The increase in credit risk-weighted assets was primarily due to changes in OTC derivative trade activity and portfolio credit quality as well as increase in commercial loans and loan commitments, partially offset by a decline in retail exposures due to reductions in qualifying revolving (cards) exposures attributable to seasonal holiday spending repayments. The increase in market risk-weighted assets  was primarily due to increases in exposure levels subject to Stressed Value at Risk and Value at Risk, partially offset by methodology changes for standard specific risk charges. Operational risk-weighted assets decreased from year-end 2017 primarily due to changes in operational loss severity and frequency.33Supplementary Leverage RatioAs set forth in the table below, Citigroup s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 6.7% for the first quarter of 2018, unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2017, as net income of $4.6 billion was offset by the return of capital to common shareholders and a slight increase in Total Leverage Exposure. The following table sets forth Citi s Supplementary Leverage ratio and related components for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Citigroup Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratio and Related Components(1)Represents the daily average of on-balance sheet assets for the quarter.(2)Represents the average of certain off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each month in the quarter. (3)Under the U.S. Basel III rules, banking organizations are required to include in TLE the effective notional amount of sold credit derivatives, with netting of exposures permitted if certain conditions are met. (4)Repo-style transactions include repurchase or reverse repurchase transactions and securities borrowing or securities lending transactions. 34Capital Resources of Citigroup s Subsidiary U.S. Depository Institutions Citigroup s subsidiary U.S. depository institutions are also subject to regulatory capital standards issued by their respective primary federal bank regulatory agencies, which are similar to the standards of the Federal Reserve Board. During 2018, Citi s primary subsidiary U.S. depository institution, Citibank, N.A. (Citibank), is subject to effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios, inclusive of the 75% phase-in of the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer, of 6.375%, 7.875% and 9.875%, respectively. Citibank s effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios during 2017, inclusive of the 50% phase-in of  the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer, were 5.75%, 7.25% and 9.25%, respectively. Citibank is required to maintain stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios of 4.5%, 6% and 8%, respectively. The following tables set forth the capital tiers, total risk-weighted assets and underlying risk components, risk-based capital ratios, quarterly adjusted average total assets, Total Leverage Exposure and leverage ratios for Citibank, Citi s primary subsidiary U.S. depository institution, as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.Citibank Capital Components and Ratios(1)Under the Advanced Approaches framework, eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses are eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital to the extent the excess reserves do not exceed 0.6% of credit risk-weighted assets, which differs from the Standardized Approach in which the allowance for credit losses is eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets, with any excess allowance for credit losses being deducted in arriving at credit risk-weighted assets. (2)Citibank s risk-based capital and leverage ratios and related components as of December 31, 2017 are non-GAAP financial measures, which reflect full implementation of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions prior to the effective date of January 1, 2018. (3)As of March 31, 2018, Citibank s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios were the lower derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach. As of December 31, 2017, Citibank s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were the lower derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach, whereas the reportable Total Capital ratio was the lower derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework. (4)Citibank must maintain minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5%, 8.0%, 10.0% and 5.0%, respectively, to be considered  well capitalized  under the revised Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations applicable to insured depository institutions as established by the U.S. Basel III rules. Effective January 1, 2018, Citibank must also maintain a minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6.0% to be considered  well capitalized.  For additional information, see  Capital Resources Current Regulatory Capital Standards Prompt Corrective Action Framework  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. (5)Tier 1 Leverage ratio denominator. (6)Supplementary Leverage ratio denominator. As indicated in the table above, Citibank s capital ratios at March 31, 2018 were in excess of the stated and effective minimum requirements under the U.S. Basel III  rules. In addition, Citibank was also  well capitalized  as of March 31, 2018 under the revised PCA regulations. 35Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Capital RatiosThe following tables present the estimated sensitivity of Citigroup s and Citibank s capital ratios to changes of $100 million in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital (numerator), and changes of $1 billion in Advanced Approaches and Standardized Approach risk-weighted assets and quarterly adjusted average total assets, as well as Total Leverage Exposure (denominator), as of March 31, 2018. This information is provided for the  purpose of analyzing the impact that a change in Citigroup s or Citibank s financial position or results of operations could have on these ratios. These sensitivities only consider a single change to either a component of capital, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets or Total Leverage Exposure. Accordingly, an event that affects more than one factor may have a larger basis point impact than is reflected in these tables.Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Risk-Based Capital Ratios Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratioTier 1 Capital ratioTotal Capital ratioIn basis pointsImpact of$100 millionchange inCommon EquityTier 1 CapitalImpact of$1 billionchange in risk-weighted assetsImpact of$100 millionchange inTier 1 CapitalImpact of$1 billionchange in risk-weighted assetsImpact of$100 millionchange inTotal CapitalImpact of$1 billionchange in risk-weighted assetsCitigroup      Advanced Approaches0.81.00.81.20.81.4Standardized Approach 0.81.00.81.10.81.4Citibank      Advanced Approaches1.01.41.01.41.01.5Standardized Approach 1.01.21.01.21.01.4Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Leverage Ratios Tier 1 Leverage ratioSupplementary Leverage ratioIn basis pointsImpact of$100 millionchange inTier 1 CapitalImpact of$1 billionchange in quarterly adjusted average total assetsImpact of$100 millionchange inTier 1 CapitalImpact of$1 billionchange in Total Leverage ExposureCitigroup0.50.50.40.3Citibank0.70.70.50.4Citigroup Broker-Dealer SubsidiariesAt March 31, 2018, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer registered with the SEC that is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, had net capital, computed in accordance with the SEC s net capital rule, of $10.4 billion, which exceeded the minimum requirement by $8.1 billion. Moreover, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, a broker-dealer registered with the United Kingdom s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) that is also an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, had total capital of $19.1 billion at March 31, 2018, which exceeded the PRA's minimum regulatory capital requirements.  In addition, certain of Citi s other broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the countries in which they do business, including requirements to maintain specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. Citigroup s other broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance with their regulatory capital requirements at March 31, 2018. 36Regulatory Capital Standards DevelopmentsStress Buffer RequirementsIn April 2018, the Federal Reserve Board released a notice of proposed rulemaking that would create a single, integrated capital requirement by combining the quantitative assessment of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) program with the buffer requirements in the U.S. Basel III rules. The proposed rule would revise CCAR such that the Federal Reserve Board would no longer object to a bank holding company s capital plan based on a quantitative assessment of its capital adequacy, and would instead use the results of the supervisory severely adverse scenario in the annual stress test to size specific buffer requirements above certain minimum capital requirements. As with the current U.S. Basel III rules, any breach of the buffers to absorb losses during periods of financial or economic stress would result in restrictions on earnings distributions (e.g., dividends, equity repurchases and discretionary executive bonuses), based upon the extent to which the buffer(s) are breached.With respect to each of the risk-based capital ratios (i.e., Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio, Tier 1 Capital ratio and Total Capital ratio) calculated under the Standardized Approach, the proposed rule would replace the Capital Conservation Buffer, which is fixed at 2.5% under the U.S. Basel III rules, with a variable buffer known as the Stress Capital Buffer. The Stress Capital Buffer would be equal to the maximum decline in a bank holding company s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the severely adverse scenario of the supervisory stress test, plus planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon (expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets), and would be subject to a floor of 2.5%. The Capital Conservation Buffer would remain unchanged at 2.5% for each of the risk-based capital ratios calculated using the Advanced Approaches. Under either approach, the GSIB surcharge and, if invoked, any Countercyclical Capital Buffer, would continue to augment the Stress Capital Buffer or Capital Conservation Buffer, as applicable. In addition to the Stress Capital Buffer, the proposed rule would establish a new Stress Leverage Buffer requirement above the stated minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio requirement. The Stress Leverage Buffer would be equal to the maximum decline in a bank holding company s Tier 1 Leverage ratio under the severely adverse scenario of the supervisory stress test, plus planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon (expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets). Finally, the proposed rule would also modify certain assumptions in the supervisory stress test to determine a bank holding company s stress buffer requirements. The modified assumptions include a narrower set of planned capital actions assumed to occur in the supervisory stress test, as well as an assumption that the bank holding company would take actions to maintain a constant level of assets in a stress scenario. Under the timeline for stress testing and CCAR cycles included within the proposed rule, the Federal Reserve Board would generally release its calculation of each bank holding company s Stress Capital Buffer and Stress Leverage Buffer by June 30 of each year. The effective date of the proposed rule would be December 31, 2018, with the initial stress buffer requirements becoming effective October 1, 2019. If adopted as proposed, Citi would likely be subject to higher effective minimum regulatory capital requirements. Enhanced Supplementary Leverage Ratio and Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) RequirementsIn April 2018, the Federal Reserve Board (Board) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) jointly issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that would modify the enhanced Supplementary Leverage ratio standards applicable to U.S. GSIBs and their Board- or OCC-regulated insured depository institution subsidiaries. The proposed rule would replace the currently fixed 2.0% leverage buffer requirement that applies uniformly to all U.S. GSIBs, such as Citi, with a variable leverage buffer requirement equal to 50% of the U.S. GSIB s currently applicable GSIB surcharge. Similarly, for Board- or OCC-regulated insured depository institution subsidiaries of U.S. GSIBs, such as Citibank, the proposed rule would replace the currently fixed 6.0% threshold at which these subsidiaries are considered to be  well capitalized  under the Prompt Corrective Action framework with a threshold set at the stated minimum requirement of 3.0% plus 50% of the GSIB surcharge applicable to the U.S. GSIB of which it is a subsidiary. The proposed rule would also make corresponding modifications to certain of the Board s TLAC buffer requirements applicable to U.S. GSIBs. Accordingly, under the proposed rule, each U.S. GSIB s fixed 2.0% leverage-based TLAC buffer would be replaced with a buffer equal to 50% of the GSIB surcharge, and the leverage component of each U.S. GSIB s Long-Term Debt (LTD) requirement would be revised to equal Total Leverage Exposure multiplied by 2.5% plus 50% of the U.S. GSIB s applicable GSIB surcharge. If adopted as proposed, and assuming that Citi maintains a GSIB surcharge of 3.0%, Citigroup s and Citibank s effective minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirements would be reduced to 4.5%, down from the current effective minimum requirements of 5.0% and 6.0%, respectively. Additionally, Citi s leverage-based TLAC buffer would decrease from 2.0% to 1.5%, and the leverage component of Citi s LTD requirement would decrease from 4.5% to 4.0%.37Regulatory Capital Treatment Implementation and Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) MethodologyIn April 2018, the U.S. banking agencies released a notice of proposed rulemaking that would afford banking organizations an optional phase-in over a three-year period of the  Day One  adverse regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology. The proposed rule is in recognition of the issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board of ASU No. 2016-13,  Financial Instruments Credit Losses,  which will replace the current incurred loss methodology for recognizing credit losses with the CECL methodology. The ASU will be effective for Citi as of January 1, 2020, and will generally result in earlier recognition of credit losses compared to current practice. For additional information regarding the CECL methodology, see  Future Application of Accounting Standards  below.Under the proposed rule, the election to phase in the  Day One  adverse regulatory capital effects arising from adoption of the CECL methodology must be made as of the date of adopting CECL. Bank holding companies, such as Citi, and insured depository institution subsidiaries, such as Citibank, may choose to elect transitional regulatory capital relief independent of one another. The proposed rule does not change the timing or the U.S. GAAP result of implementing the CECL methodology. However, if adopted as proposed, the proposed rule would provide both Citigroup and Citibank with additional flexibility to phase in the Day One adverse regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology.Revisions to the Minimum Capital Requirements for Market RiskIn March 2018, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) issued a consultative document which proposes revisions to the market risk capital framework previously finalized in 2016. The consultative document proposes revisions to the assessment process to determine whether a bank s internal risk management models appropriately reflect the risks of individual trading desks, as well as clarifications to the requirements for identification of risk factors that are eligible for internal modeling. In addition, the consultative document proposes a recalibration of the risk weights for general interest rate risk, equity risk and foreign exchange risk under the Standardized Approach. The U.S. banking agencies may revise the minimum capital requirements for market risk in the future, based upon any revisions adopted by the Basel Committee. Pillar 3 Disclosure Requirements Updated FrameworkIn February 2018, the Basel Committee issued a consultative document which proposes to revise the  Pillar 3  disclosure requirements last finalized in March 2017, by largely reflecting finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms in December 2017. The consultative document includes several new or revised disclosure requirements related to credit risk, credit valuation adjustments, operational risk and the leverage ratio. Further, the proposal introduces disclosure requirements for benchmarking risk-weighted assets calculated under banks  internal models with those calculated according to the standardized approaches. Additionally, the consultative document proposes new disclosure requirements related to the prudential treatment of problem assets, asset encumbrance and capital distribution constraints, as well as seeks feedback on the advantages and disadvantages of expanding the scope of application for disclosures related to the composition of regulatory capital to resolution groups.The Advanced Approaches disclosure requirements under the U.S. Basel III rules may be revised by the U.S. banking agencies in the future, as a result of the Basel Committee s proposed new and revised Pillar 3 disclosure requirements. 38Tangible Common Equity, Book Value Per Share, Tangible Book Value Per Share and Returns on EquityTangible common equity (TCE), as defined by Citi, represents common stockholders  equity less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs). Other companies may calculate TCE in a different manner. TCE, tangible book value per share and returns on average TCE are non-GAAP financial measures.  (1)Average common stockholders  equity for the three months ended March 31, 2018 includes the $22.6 billion impact from Tax Reform recorded at the end of the fourth quarter of 2017.(2)ROTCE represents annualized net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average TCE.39Managing Global Risk Table of ContentsMANAGING GLOBAL RISK 41CREDIT RISK(1) 41Consumer Credit 41Corporate Credit 48Additional Consumer and Corporate Credit Details 50 Loans Outstanding 50       Details of Credit Loss Experience  51       Allowance for Loan Losses 52       Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated Loans 53LIQUIDITY RISK 57High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) 57Loans 58Deposits 58Long-Term Debt 59Secured Funding Transactions and Short-Term Borrowings 61Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) 61Credit Ratings 62MARKET RISK(1)  64Market Risk of Non-Trading Portfolios  64Market Risk of Trading Portfolios  71COUNTRY RISK 73(1) For additional information regarding certain credit risk, market risk and other quantitative and qualitative information, refer to Citi s Pillar 3 Basel III Advanced Approaches Disclosures, as required by the rules of the Federal Reserve Board, on Citi s Investor Relations website.40MANAGING GLOBAL RISKFor Citi, effective risk management is of primary importance to its overall operations. Accordingly, Citi s risk management process has been designed to identify, monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks it assumes in conducting its activities. Specifically, the activities that Citi engages in, and the risks those activities generate, must be consistent with Citi s mission and value proposition, the key principles that guide it and Citi's risk appetite.  For more information on Citi s management of global risk, including its three lines of defense, see  Managing Global Risk  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  CREDIT RISKFor additional information on credit risk, including Citi s credit risk management, measurement and stress testing, see  Credit Risk  and  Risk Factors  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.CONSUMER CREDITCiti provides traditional retail banking, including commercial banking, and credit card products in 19 countries and jurisdictions through North America GCB, Latin America GCB and Asia GCB. The retail banking products include consumer mortgages, home equity, personal and commercial loans and lines of credit and similar related products with a focus on lending to prime customers. Citi uses its risk appetite  framework to define its lending parameters. In addition, Citi uses proprietary scoring models for new customer approvals. As stated in  Global Consumer Banking  above, GCB s overall strategy is to leverage Citi s global footprint and be the pre-eminent bank for the affluent and emerging affluent consumers in large urban centers. In credit cards and in certain retail markets, Citi serves customers in a somewhat broader set of segments and geographies. GCB s commercial banking business focuses on small to mid-sized businesses.Consumer Credit PortfolioThe following table shows Citi s quarterly end-of-period consumer loans:(1) (1)End-of-period loans include interest and fees on credit cards.(2)Asia includes loans and leases in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.(3)Primarily consists of legacy assets, principally North America consumer mortgages.For information on changes to Citi s end-of-period consumer loans, see  Liquidity Risk Loans  below.41Overall Consumer Credit TrendsThe following charts show the quarterly trends in delinquencies and net credit losses across both retail banking, including commercial banking, and cards for total GCB and by region. Global Consumer BankingNorth America GCBNorth America GCB provides mortgages, home equity loans, personal loans and commercial banking products through Citi s retail banking network and card products through Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services businesses. The retail bank is concentrated in six major metropolitan cities in the United States (for additional information on the U.S. retail bank, see  North America GCB  above).As of March 31, 2018, approximately 70% of North America GCB consumer loans consisted of Citi-branded and Citi retail services cards, which generally drives the overall credit performance of North America GCB, including the credit performance year-over-year as of the first quarter of 2018 (for additional information on North America GCB s cards portfolios, including delinquency and net credit loss rates, see  Credit Card Trends  below). Quarter-over-quarter, 90+ days past due delinquencies remained relatively unchanged, while the net credit loss rate increased quarter-over-quarter, primarily due to seasonality in both cards portfolios. Year-over-year increases in loss and delinquency rates were driven by Citi retail services, due to seasoning and an increase in net flow rates in later delinquency buckets. Latin America GCBLatin America GCB operates in Mexico through Citibanamex, one of Mexico s largest banks, and provides credit cards, consumer mortgages, personal loans and commercial banking products. Latin America GCB serves a more mass market segment in Mexico and focuses on developing multi-product relationships with customers.As set forth in the chart above, 90+ days past duedelinquencies and net credit loss rates improved quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the first quarter of 2018. The decrease was driven by the commercial portfolio, partially offset by an increase in cards due to seasoning of the portfolio.Asia(1) GCB(1)Asia includes GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.Asia GCB operates in 17 countries in Asia and EMEA and provides credit cards, consumer mortgages, personal loans and commercial banking products.As shown in the chart above, 90+ days past due delinquency and net credit loss rates were largely stable in Asia GCB year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter as of the first quarter of 2018. This stability reflects the strong credit profiles in Asia GCB s target customer segments. In addition, regulatory changes in many markets in Asia over the past few years have resulted in stable or improved portfolio credit quality.For additional information on cost of credit, loan delinquency and other information for Citi s consumer loan portfolios, see each respective business s results of operations above and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.42Credit Card Trends The following charts show the quarterly trends in delinquencies and net credit losses for total GCB cards, Citi s North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios as well as for Citi s Latin America and Asia Citi-branded cards portfolios.Global CardsNorth America Citi-Branded CardsNorth America GCB s Citi-branded cards portfolio issues proprietary and co-branded cards. As shown in the chart above, the 90+ days past due delinquency rate in Citi-branded cards was stable year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter. The net credit loss rate declined modestly year-over-year, and increased quarter-over-quarter primarily due to seasonality.North America Citi Retail Services Citi retail services partners directly with more than 20 retailers and dealers to offer private-label and co-branded consumer and commercial cards. Citi retail services  target market is focused on select industry segments such as home improvement, specialty retail, consumer electronics and fuel. Citi retail services continually evaluates opportunities to add partners within target industries that have strong loyalty, lending or payment programs and growth potential.Citi retail services  delinquency and net credit loss rates increased year-over-year, primarily due to seasoning and an increase in net flow rates in later delinquency buckets. The quarter-over-quarter increase in loss rates was primarily driven by seasonality.Latin America Citi-Branded Cards Latin America GCB issues proprietary and co-branded cards. As set forth in the chart above, the net credit loss and delinquency rates increased year-over-year primarily due to seasoning. The quarter-over-quarter net credit loss rate increase was primarily due to seasonality.43Asia Citi-Branded Cards(1)(1)Asia includes loans and leases in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.Asia GCB issues proprietary and co-branded cards. As set forth in the chart above, 90+ days past due delinquency and net credit loss rates have remained broadly stable, driven by the mature and well-diversified cards portfolios.For additional information on cost of credit, delinquency and other information for Citi s cards portfolios, see each respective business s results of operations above and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. North America Cards FICO DistributionThe following tables show the current FICO score distributions for Citi s North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios based on end-of-period receivables. FICO scores are updated monthly for substantially all of the portfolio and on a quarterly basis for the remaining portfolio.Citi-BrandedCiti Retail ServicesThe percentage of loans outstanding with borrowers with FICO scores greater than 760 declined sequentially due to seasonality in Citi retail services. Otherwise, the portfolios continued to demonstrate strong underlying credit quality. For additional information on FICO scores, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.44North America Consumer Mortgage LendingCiti s North America consumer mortgage portfolio consists of both residential first mortgages and home equity loans. The following table shows the outstanding quarterly end-of-period loans for Citi s North America residential first mortgage and home equity loan portfolios:For additional information on delinquency and net credit loss trends in Citi s consumer mortgage portfolio, see  Additional Consumer Credit Details  below.Home Equity Loans Revolving HELOCsAs set forth in the table above, Citi had $14.0 billion of home equity loans as of March 31, 2018, of which $3.3 billion were fixed-rate home equity loans and $10.7 billion were extended under home equity lines of credit (Revolving HELOCs). Fixed-rate home equity loans are fully amortizing. Revolving HELOCs allow for amounts to be drawn for a period of time with the payment of interest only until the end of the draw period, when the outstanding amount is converted to an amortizing loan, or  reset  (the interest-only payment feature during the revolving period is standard for this product across the industry). Upon reset, these borrowers will be required to pay both interest, usually at a variable rate, and principal that amortizes typically over 20 years, rather than the standard 30-year amortization.Of the Revolving HELOCs at March 31, 2018, $6.6 billion had reset (compared to $6.8 billion at December 31, 2017) and $4.1 billion were still within their revolving period and had not reset (compared to $4.6 billion at December 31, 2017). The following chart indicates the FICO and combined loan-to-value (CLTV) characteristics of Citi s Revolving HELOCs portfolio and the year in which they reset: North America Home Equity Lines of Credit Amortization   CitigroupTotal ENR by Reset YearIn billions of dollars as of March 31, 2018Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding.Approximately 62% of Citi s total Revolving HELOCs portfolio had reset as of March 31, 2018 (compared to 60% as of December 31, 2017). Of the remaining Revolving HELOCs portfolio, approximately 19% will commence amortization during the remainder of 2018. Citi s customers with Revolving HELOCs that reset could experience  payment shock  due to the higher required payments on the loans. Citi currently estimates that the monthly loan payment for its Revolving HELOCs that reset during the remainder of 2018 could increase on average by approximately $284, or 120%. Increases in interest rates could further increase these payments given the variable nature of the interest rates on these loans post-reset. Borrowers  high loan-to-value positions, as well as the cost and availability of refinancing options, could limit borrowers  ability to refinance their Revolving HELOCs as these loans begin to reset.Approximately 5.4% of the Revolving HELOCs that have reset as of March 31, 2018 were 30+ days past due, compared to 3.6% of the total outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). This compared to 5.9% and 3.9%, respectively, as of December 31, 2017. As newly amortizing loans continue to season, the delinquency rate of Citi s total home equity loan portfolio could increase. In addition, resets to date have generally occurred during a period of historically low interest rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall  payment shock  to the borrower. Citi monitors this reset risk closely and will continue to consider any potential impact in determining its allowance for loan loss reserves. In addition, management continues to review and take additional actions to offset potential reset risk, such as a borrower outreach program to provide reset risk education and proactively working with high-risk borrowers through a specialized single point of contact unit.     45Additional Consumer Credit DetailsConsumer Loan Delinquency Amounts and Ratios(1)End-of-period (EOP) loans include interest and fees on credit cards.(2)The ratios of 90+ days past due and 30 89 days past due are calculated based on EOP loans, net of unearned income.(3)The 90+ days past due balances for North America Citi-branded and North America Citi retail services are generally still accruing interest. Citigroup s policy is generally to accrue interest on credit card loans until 180 days past due, unless notification of bankruptcy filing has been received earlier.(4)The 90+ days past due and 30 89 days past due and related ratios for GCB North America exclude U.S. mortgage loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored entities since the potential loss predominantly resides within the U.S. government-sponsored entities. The amounts excluded for loans 90+ days past due and (EOP loans) were $272 million ($0.9 billion), $298 million ($0.7 billion) and $313 million ($0.8 billion) at March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively. The amounts excluded for loans 30 89 days past due (EOP loans have the same adjustment as above) were $92 million, $88 million and $84 million at March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively.(5)Asia includes delinquencies and loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.(6)The 90+ days past due and 30 89 days past due and related ratios for Corporate/Other North America consumer exclude U.S. mortgage loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored entities since the potential loss predominantly resides within the U.S. government-sponsored entities. The amounts excluded for loans 90+ days past due (and EOP loans) were $0.5 billion ($0.9 billion), $0.6 billion ($1.1 billion) and $0.8 billion ($1.4 billion) at March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively. The amounts excluded for loans 30 89 days past due (EOP loans have the same adjustment as above) for each period were $0.1 billion, $0.1 billion and $0.1 billion at March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively.46(7)The March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017 loans 90+ days past due and 30 89 days past due and related ratios for North America exclude $4 million, $4 million and $7 million, respectively, of loans that are carried at fair value.Consumer Loan Net Credit Losses and Ratios(1)Average loans include interest and fees on credit cards.(2)The ratios of net credit losses are calculated based on average loans, net of unearned income.(3)In October 2016, Citi entered into agreements to sell Citi s Brazil and Argentina consumer banking businesses and classified these businesses as HFS. The sale of the Argentina consumer banking business was completed at the end of the first quarter 2017. As a result of HFS accounting treatment, approximately $40 million and $13 million of net credit losses (NCLs) were recorded as a reduction in revenue (Other revenue) during the first quarter of 2017 and fourth quarter of 2017, respectively. Accordingly, these NCLs are not included in this table. Loans classified as HFS are excluded from this table as they are recorded in Other assets.(4)Asia includes NCLs and average loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.47CORPORATE CREDIT Consistent with its overall strategy, Citi s corporate clients are typically large, multinational corporations that value the depth and breadth of Citi s global network. Citi aims to establish relationships with these clients that encompass multiple products, consistent with client needs, including cash management and trade services, foreign exchange, lending, capital markets and M&A advisory. Corporate Credit PortfolioThe following table sets forth Citi s corporate credit portfolio within ICG (excluding private bank), before consideration of collateral or hedges, by remaining tenor for the periods indicated:(1)Includes drawn loans, overdrafts, bankers  acceptances and leases. (2)Includes unused commitments to lend, letters of credit and financial guarantees.Portfolio Mix Geography, Counterparty and IndustryCiti s corporate credit portfolio is diverse across geography and counterparty. The following table shows the percentage of this portfolio by region based on Citi s internal management geography:The maintenance of accurate and consistent risk ratings across the corporate credit portfolio facilitates the comparison of credit exposure across all lines of business, geographic regions and products. Counterparty risk ratings reflect an estimated probability of default for a counterparty and are derived primarily through the use of validated statistical models, scorecard models and external agency ratings (under defined circumstances), in combination with consideration of factors specific to the obligor or market, such as management experience, competitive position, regulatory environment and commodity prices. Facility risk ratings are assigned that reflect the probability of default of the obligor and factors that affect the loss-given-default of the facility, such as support or collateral. Internal obligor ratings that generally correspond to BBB and above are  considered investment grade, while those below are considered non-investment grade.Citigroup also has incorporated environmental factors like climate risk assessment and reporting criteria for certain obligors, as necessary. Factors evaluated include consideration of climate risk to an obligor s business and physical assets and, when relevant, consideration of cost-effective options to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.The following table presents the corporate credit portfolio by facility risk rating as a percentage of the total corporate credit portfolio:Note: Total exposure includes direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments. 48Citi s corporate credit portfolio is also diversified by industry. The following table shows the allocation of Citi s total corporate credit portfolio by industry: Total exposure March 31, 2018December 31, 2017Transportation and industrial22%22%Consumer retail and health1716Technology, media and telecom1312Power, chemicals, metals and mining1010Energy and commodities88Banks/broker-dealers/finance companies88Real estate78Insurance and special purpose entities55Public sector55Hedge funds44Other industries12Total100%100%Credit Risk MitigationAs part of its overall risk management activities, Citigroup uses credit derivatives and other risk mitigants to hedge portions of the credit risk in its corporate credit portfolio, in addition to outright asset sales. The results of the mark-to-market and any realized gains or losses on credit derivatives are reflected primarily in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income.At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $17.0 billion and $16.3 billion, respectively, of the corporate credit portfolio was economically hedged. Citigroup s expected loss model used in the calculation of its loan loss reserve does not include the favorable impact of credit derivatives and other mitigants that are marked to market. In addition, the reported amounts of direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments in the tables above do not reflect the impact of these hedging transactions. The credit protection was economically hedging underlying corporate credit portfolio exposures with the following risk rating distribution: Rating of Hedged ExposureThe credit protection was economically hedging underlying corporate credit portfolio exposures with the following industry distribution:Industry of Hedged Exposure49ADDITIONAL CONSUMER AND CORPORATE CREDIT DETAILSLoans Outstanding(1)Loans secured primarily by real estate.(2)Unearned income on consumer loans primarily represents unamortized origination fees and costs, premiums and discounts. (3)Unearned income on corporate loans primarily represents interest received in advance, but not yet earned, on loans originated on a discounted basis.(4)All periods exclude loans that are carried at fair value.50Details of Credit Loss Experience(1)Recoveries have been reduced by certain collection costs that are incurred only if collection efforts are successful.(2)Includes all adjustments to the allowance for credit losses, such as changes in the allowance from acquisitions, dispositions, securitizations, FX translation, purchase accounting adjustments, etc.(3)The first quarter of 2018 includes a reduction of approximately $55 million related to the sale or transfer to held-for-sale (HFS) of various loan portfolios, including a reduction of $53 million related to the transfer of a real estate loan portfolio to HFS. Additionally, the first quarter includes an increase of approximately $118 million related to FX translation.(4)The fourth quarter of 2017 includes a reduction of approximately $47 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, including a reduction of $22 million related to the transfer of a real estate loan portfolio to HFS. Additionally, the fourth quarter includes a decrease of approximately $106 million related to FX translation.(5)The third quarter of 2017 includes a reduction of approximately $34 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, including a reduction of $28 million related to the transfer of a real estate loan portfolio to HFS. Additionally, the third quarter includes an increase of approximately $7 million related to FX translation.51(6)The second quarter of 2017 includes a reduction of approximately $19 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, including a reduction of $19 million related to the transfer of a real estate loan portfolio to HFS. Additionally, the second quarter includes an increase of approximately $50 million related to FX translation.(7)The first quarter of 2017 includes a reduction of approximately $161 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, including a reduction of $37 million related to the transfer of a real estate loan portfolio to HFS. Additionally, the first quarter includes an increase of approximately $164 million related to FX translation.(9)Represents additional credit reserves recorded as Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.(10)Allowance for loan losses represents management s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio, as well as probable losses related to large individually evaluated impaired loans and troubled debt restructurings. See  Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates  and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Attribution of the allowance is made for analytical purposes only and the entire allowance is available to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the overall portfolio.Allowance for Loan LossesThe following tables detail information on Citi s allowance for loan losses, loans and coverage ratios:(1)Allowance as a percentage of loans excludes loans that are carried at fair value.(2)Includes both Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. The $6.2 billion of loan loss reserves represented approximately 15 months of coincident net credit loss coverage.(3)Of the $0.7 billion, approximately $0.6 billion was allocated to North America mortgages in Corporate/Other. Of the $0.7 billion, approximately $0.2 billion and $0.5 billion are determined in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. Of the $62.2 billion in loans, approximately $58.7 billion and $3.4 billion of the loans are evaluated in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)Includes mortgages and other retail loans.(1)Allowance as a percentage of loans excludes loans that are carried at fair value.(2)Includes both Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. The $6.1 billion billion of loan loss reserves represented approximately 16 months of coincident net credit loss coverage.(3)Of the $0.7 billion, approximately $0.6 billion was allocated to North America mortgages in Corporate/Other. Of the $0.7 billion, approximately $0.2 billion and $0.5 billion are determined in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. Of the $64.2 billion in loans, approximately $60.4 billion and $3.7 billion of the loans are evaluated in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)Includes mortgages and other retail loans.52Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated LoansThere is a certain amount of overlap among non-accrual loans and assets and renegotiated loans. The following summary provides a general description of each category:Non-Accrual Loans and Assets: Corporate and consumer (including commercial banking) non-accrual status is based on the determination that payment of interest or principal is doubtful. A corporate loan may be classified as non-accrual and still be performing under the terms of the loan structure. Payments received on corporate non-accrual loans are generally applied to loan principal and not reflected as interest income. Approximately 65%, 74% and 65% of Citi s corporate non-accrual loans were performing at March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively. Consumer non-accrual status is generally based on aging, i.e., the borrower has fallen behind on payments.  Consumer mortgage loans, other than Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured loans, are classified as non-accrual within 60 days of notification that the borrower has filed for bankruptcy. In addition, home equity loans are classified as non-accrual if the related residential first mortgage loan is 90 days or more past due. North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services are not included because, under industry standards, credit card loans accrue interest until such loans are charged off, which typically occurs at 180 days of contractual delinquency.Renegotiated Loans: Includes both corporate and consumer loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). Includes both accrual and non-accrual TDRs.53Non-Accrual LoansThe table below summarizes Citigroup s non-accrual loans as of the periods indicated. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. In situations where Citi reasonably expects that only a portion of the principal owed will ultimately be collected, all payments received are reflected as a reduction of principal and not as interest income. For all other non-accrual loans, cash interest receipts are generally recorded as revenue.  (2)    Asia GCB includes balances in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.The changes in Citigroup s non-accrual loans were as follows:54The table below summarizes Citigroup s other real estate owned (OREO) assets as of the periods indicated. This represents the carrying value of all real estate property acquired by foreclosure or other legal proceedings when Citi has taken possession of the collateral:(1)The allowance for loan losses includes the allowance for Citi s credit card portfolios and purchased distressed loans, while the non-accrual loans exclude credit card balances (with the exception of certain international portfolios) and purchased distressed loans as these continue to accrue interest until charge-off.55Renegotiated LoansThe following table presents Citi s loans modified in TDRs:(1)Includes $539 million and $715 million of non-accrual loans included in the non-accrual loans table above at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The remaining loans are accruing interest.(2)In addition to modifications reflected as TDRs at March 31, 2018, Citi also modified $57 million of commercial loans risk rated  Substandard Non-Performing  or worse (asset category defined by banking regulators) in offices outside the U.S. These modifications were not considered TDRs because the modifications did not involve a concession.(3)Includes $1,320 million and $1,376 million of non-accrual loans included in the non-accrual loans table above at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The remaining loans are accruing interest.(4)Includes $28 million and $26 million of commercial real estate loans at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.(6)Reduction in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared with December 31, 2017 includes $260 million related to TDRs sold or transferred to HFS.56LIQUIDITY RISKFor additional information on funding and liquidity at Citigroup, including its objectives, management and measurement, see  Liquidity Risk  and  Risk Factors  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)Note: The amounts set forth in the table above are presented on an average basis and reflect HQLA which are transferable to Citigroup. For securities, the amounts represent the liquidity value that potentially could be realized and, therefore, exclude any securities that are encumbered and incorporate any haircuts that would be required for securities financing transactions.(1)  Foreign government debt includes securities issued or guaranteed by foreign sovereigns, agencies and multilateral development banks. Foreign government debt securities are held largely to support local liquidity requirements and Citi s local franchises and principally include government bonds from Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea, India and Mexico. As set forth in the table above, Citi s total HQLA increased year-over-year, primarily driven by an increase in cash related to resolution planning. Sequentially, Citi s HQLA decreased modestly, as Citi optimized its overall HQLA and deployed liquidity as it grew loans in GCB and ICG.Citi s HQLA as set forth above does not include Citi s available borrowing capacity from the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) of which Citi is a member, which was approximately $22 billion as of March 31, 2018 (compared to $10 billion as of December 31, 2017 and $28 billion as of March 31, 2017) and maintained by eligible collateral pledged to such banks. The HQLA also does not include Citi s borrowing capacity at the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank discount window or other central banks, which would be in addition to the resources noted above.In general, Citi s liquidity is fungible across legal entities within its bank group. Citi s bank subsidiaries, including Citibank, can lend to the Citi parent and broker-dealer entities in accordance with Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. As of March 31, 2018, the capacity available for lending to these entities under Section 23A was approximately $15 billion, unchanged from both December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, subject to certain eligible non-cash collateral requirements. 57LoansThe table below sets forth the average loans, by business and/or segment, and the total end-of-period loans for each of the periods indicated:(1)Includes loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.As set forth in the table above, end-of-period loans increased 7% year-over-year and 1% quarter-over-quarter. On an average basis, loans increased 7% year-over-year and 2% quarter-over-quarter. Excluding the impact of FX translation, average loans increased 5% year-over-year and 7% in aggregate across GCB and ICG. Average GCB loans grew 4% year-over-year, driven by growth across all regions. Average ICG loans increased 10% year-over-year, driven by strong client engagement across businesses. Average Corporate/Other loans decreased 30% year-over-year, driven by the continued wind-down of legacy assets. DepositsThe table below sets forth the average deposits, by business and/or segment, and the total end-of-period deposits for each of the periods indicated:(1)Includes deposits in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.End-of-period deposits increased 5% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter. On an average basis, deposits increased 4% year-over-year and 1% quarter-over-quarter. Excluding the impact of FX translation, average deposits grew 2% from the prior-year period. In GCB, deposits remained largely unchanged year-over-year, as 3% growth in Latin America GCB and Asia GCB was offset by a 2% decline in North America GCB, which included the impact of lower mortgage escrow deposits. Within North America GCB, growth in checking deposits was more than offset by a reduction in money market balances, as clients transferred cash to investment accounts.Within ICG, deposits grew 6% year-over-year, largely driven by continued growth in TTS.58Long-Term Debt The weighted-average maturity of unsecured long-term debt issued by Citigroup and its affiliates (including Citibank) with a remaining life greater than one year (excluding remaining trust preferred securities outstanding) was approximately 6.6 years as of March 31, 2018, a decline from both the prior-year period (6.9 years) and the prior quarter (6.8 years).Citi s long-term debt outstanding at the Citigroup parent company includes senior and subordinated debt and what Citi refers to as customer-related debt, consisting of structured notes, such as equity- and credit-linked notes, as well as non-structured notes. Citi s issuance of customer-related debt is generally driven by customer demand and supplements benchmark debt issuance as a source of funding for Citi s non-bank entities. Citi s long-term debt at the bank also includes benchmark senior debt, FHLB advances and securitizations.  Long-Term Debt OutstandingThe following table sets forth Citi s end-of-period total long-term debt outstanding for each of the dates indicated:Note: Amounts represent the current value of long-term debt on Citi s Consolidated Balance Sheet which, for certain debt instruments, includes consideration of fair value, hedging impacts and unamortized discounts and premiums.(1) Parent and other  includes long-term debt issued to third parties by the parent holding company (Citigroup) and Citi s non-bank subsidiaries (including broker-dealer subsidiaries) that are consolidated into Citigroup. As of March 31, 2018,  parent and other  included $20.1 billion of long-term debt issued by Citi s broker-dealer subsidiaries.(2)Local country debt includes debt issued by Citi s affiliates in support of their local operations.(3)Predominantly credit card securitizations, primarily backed by Citi-branded credit card receivables.Citi s total long-term debt outstanding increased year-over-year, primarily driven by the issuance of senior benchmark and customer-related debt at the Citigroup parent company, as well as the issuance of unsecured benchmark debt at the bank. Sequentially, Citi s total long-term debt outstanding remained largely unchanged.As part of its liability management, Citi has considered, and may continue to consider, opportunities to repurchase its long-term debt pursuant to open market purchases, tender offers or other means. Such repurchases help reduce Citi s overall funding costs and assist it in meeting regulatory changes and requirements. During the first quarter of 2018, Citi repurchased and called an aggregate of approximately $3.0 billion of its outstanding long-term debt, including early redemption of FHLB advances. 59Long-Term Debt Issuances and MaturitiesThe table below details Citi s long-term debt issuances and maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during the periods presented:The table below shows Citi s aggregate long-term debt maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during the first quarter of 2018, as well as its aggregate expected annual long-term debt maturities as of March 31, 2018:60Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)In April 2018, the Federal Reserve Board and Office of Comptroller of the Currency issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that would revise the TLAC leverage-based buffer and leverage component of the LTD requirements. For additional information on the proposal as well as the current TLAC requirements, see  Capital Resources Regulatory Capital Standards Developments  above and  Liquidity Risk Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Secured Funding Transactions and Short-Term BorrowingsCiti supplements its primary sources of funding with short-term borrowings. Short-term borrowings generally include (i) secured funding transactions (securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, or repos) and (ii) to a lesser extent, short-term borrowings consisting of commercial paper and borrowings from the FHLB and other market participants (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Citigroup s and its affiliates  outstanding short-term borrowings). Outside of secured funding transactions, Citi s short-term borrowings increased 38% year-over-year driven primarily by an increase in FHLB borrowings, as Citi built and optimized liquidity across its legal entities. Sequentially, Citi s short-term borrowings declined 19%, driven primarily by a decline in FHLB borrowings, as Citi continued to optimize its funding profile. Secured Funding Secured funding is primarily accessed through Citi s broker-dealer subsidiaries to fund efficiently both secured lending activity and a portion of the securities inventory held in the context of market making and customer activities. Citi also executes a smaller portion of its secured funding transactions through its bank entities, which is typically collateralized by foreign government debt securities. Generally, daily changes in the level of Citi s secured funding are primarily due to fluctuations in secured lending activity in the matched book (as described below) and securities inventory. Secured funding of $172 billion as of March 31, 2018 increased 16% from the prior-year period and 10% sequentially. Excluding the impact of FX translation, secured funding increased 10% from the prior-year period and 8% sequentially, both driven by normal business activity. Average balances for secured funding were approximately $164 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.The portion of secured funding in the broker-dealer subsidiaries that funds secured lending is commonly referred to as  matched book  activity. The majority of this activity is secured by high-quality liquid securities such as U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities and foreign government debt securities. Other secured funding is secured by less-liquid securities, including equity securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities. The tenor of Citi s matched book liabilities is generally equal to or longer than the tenor of the corresponding matched book assets.  The remainder of the secured funding activity in the broker-dealer subsidiaries serves to fund securities inventory held in the context of market making and customer activities. To maintain reliable funding under a wide range of market conditions, including under periods of stress, Citi manages these activities by taking into consideration the quality of the underlying collateral and stipulating financing tenor. The weighted average maturity of Citi s secured funding of less-liquid securities inventory was greater than 110 days as of March 31, 2018. Citi manages the risks in its secured funding by conducting daily stress tests to account for changes in capacity, tenors, haircut, collateral profile and client actions. Additionally, Citi maintains counterparty diversification by establishing concentration triggers and assessing counterparty reliability and stability under stress. Citi generally sources secured funding from more than 150 counterparties.Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)In addition to internal liquidity stress metrics that Citi has developed for a 30-day stress scenario, Citi also monitors its liquidity by reference to the LCR, as calculated pursuant to the U.S. LCR rules. The table below sets forth the components of Citi s LCR calculation and HQLA in excess of net outflows for the periods indicated:Note: The amounts set forth in the table above are presented on an average basis.As set forth in the table above, Citi s average LCR decreased modestly year-over-year, as an increase in average HQLA was more than offset by an increase in modeled net outflows. Sequentially, Citi s average LCR also decreased modestly, as Citi optimized its overall HQLA and deployed liquidity as it grew loans in GCB and ICG.61Credit RatingsThe table below sets forth the ratings for Citigroup and Citibank as of March 31, 2018. While not included in the table below, the long- and short-term ratings of Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. (CGMHI) were BBB+/A-2 at Standard & Poor s and A/F1 at Fitch as of March 31, 2018.  Citigroup Inc.Citibank, N.A. SeniordebtCommercialpaperOutlookLong-termShort-termOutlookFitch Ratings (Fitch)AF1StableA+F1StableMoody s Investors Service (Moody s)Baa1P-2PositiveA1P-1PositiveStandard & Poor s (S&P)BBB+A-2StableA+A-1StablePotential Impacts of Ratings DowngradesRatings downgrades by Moody s, Fitch or S&P could negatively impact Citigroup s and/or Citibank s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral requirements.The following information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the potential funding and liquidity impact to Citigroup and Citibank of a hypothetical, simultaneous ratings downgrade across all three major rating agencies. This analysis is subject to certain estimates, estimation methodologies, judgments and uncertainties. Uncertainties include potential ratings limitations that certain entities may have with respect to permissible counterparties, as well as general subjective counterparty behavior. For example, certain corporate customers and markets counterparties could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit transactions in certain contracts or market instruments with Citi. Changes in counterparty behavior could impact Citi s funding and liquidity, as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses. The actual impact to Citigroup or Citibank is unpredictable and may differ materially from the potential funding and liquidity impacts described below. For additional information on the impact of credit rating changes on Citi and its applicable subsidiaries, see  Risk Factors  Liquidity Risks  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Citigroup Inc. and Citibank Potential Derivative TriggersAs of March 31, 2018, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citigroup Inc. across all three major rating agencies could impact Citigroup s funding and liquidity due to derivative triggers by approximately $0.4 billion, compared to $0.8 billion as of December 31, 2017. Other funding sources, such as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.As of March 31, 2018, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citibank across all three major rating agencies could impact Citibank s funding and liquidity by approximately $0.4 billion, unchanged from December 31, 2017. In total, Citi estimates that a one-notch downgrade of Citigroup and Citibank, across all three major rating agencies, could result in increased aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately $0.8 billion, compared to $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2017 (see also Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As set forth under  High-Quality Liquid Assets  above, the liquidity resources of Citibank which are transferable to Citigroup are approximately $353 billion and the liquidity resources of Citi s non-bank and other entities which are transferable to Citigroup are approximately $74 billion, for a total of approximately $427 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. These liquidity resources are available in part as a contingency for the potential events described above.In addition, a broad range of mitigating actions are currently included in Citigroup s and Citibank s contingency funding plans. For Citigroup, these mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, accessing surplus funding capacity from existing clients, tailoring levels of secured lending and adjusting the size of select trading books and collateralized borrowings from certain Citibank subsidiaries. Mitigating actions available to Citibank include, but are not limited to, selling or financing highly liquid government securities, tailoring levels of secured lending, adjusting the size of select trading assets, reducing loan originations and renewals, raising additional deposits or borrowing from the FHLB or central banks. Citi believes these mitigating actions could 62substantially reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above.Citibank Additional Potential ImpactsIn addition to the above derivative triggers, Citi believes that a potential one-notch downgrade of Citibank s senior debt/long-term rating by S&P could also have an adverse impact on the commercial paper/short-term rating of Citibank. As of March 31, 2018, Citibank had liquidity commitments of approximately $10.0 billion to consolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits, compared to $9.9 billion as of December 31, 2017 (as referenced in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).In addition to the above-referenced liquidity resources of certain Citibank and Citibanamex entities, Citibank could reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above through mitigating actions, including repricing or reducing certain commitments to commercial paper conduits. In the event of the potential downgrades described above, Citi believes that certain corporate customers could re-evaluate their deposit relationships with Citibank. This re-evaluation could result in clients adjusting their discretionary deposit levels or changing their depository institution, which could potentially reduce certain deposit levels at Citibank. However, Citi could choose to adjust pricing, offer alternative deposit products to its existing customers or seek to attract deposits from new customers, in addition to the mitigating actions referenced above.63MARKET RISKMarket risk emanates from both Citi s trading and non-trading portfolios. For additional information on market risk and market risk management at Citi, see  Market Risk  and  Risk Factors  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Market Risk of Non-Trading Portfolios  For additional information on Citi s net interest revenue (for interest rate exposure purposes), interest rate risk and interest rate risk measurement, see  Market Risk of Non-Trading Portfolios  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi s net interest revenue, AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis), each assuming an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 bps increase in interest rates: (1)Certain trading-oriented businesses within Citi have accrual-accounted positions that are excluded from the estimated impact to net interest revenue in the table, since these exposures are managed economically in combination with mark-to-market positions. The U.S. dollar interest rate exposure associated with these businesses was $(186) million for a 100 basis point instantaneous increase in interest rates as of March 31, 2018.(2)Includes the effect of changes in interest rates on AOCI related to investment securities, cash flow hedges and pension liability adjustments.(3)Results as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 reflect the impact of Tax Reform, including the lower expected effective tax rate and the impact to Citi s DTA position. Results as of March 31, 2017 have not been restated.The estimated impact to net interest revenue decreased slightly on a sequential basis, reflecting changes in balance sheet composition, including increased sensitivity in deposits, net of Citi Treasury positioning. The sequential increase in the estimated impact to AOCI primarily reflected changes to the positioning of Citi Treasury s investment securities and related interest rate derivatives portfolio.In the event of an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 bps increase in interest rates, Citi expects that the negative impact to AOCI would be offset in stockholders  equity through the combination of expected incremental net interest revenue and the expected recovery of the impact on AOCI through accretion of Citi s investment portfolio over a period of time. As of March 31, 2018, Citi expects that the negative $5.0 billion impact to AOCI in such a scenario could potentially be offset over approximately 20 months. The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi s net interest revenue, AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis) under four different changes in interest rate scenarios for the U.S. dollar and Citi s other currencies. While Citi also monitors the impact of a parallel decrease in interest rates, a 100 bps decrease in short-term rates is not meaningful, as it would imply negative interest rates in many of Citi's markets.64Note: Each scenario in the table above assumes that the rate change will occur instantaneously. Changes in interest rates for maturities between the overnight rate and the 10-year rate are interpolated. (1)Includes the effect of changes in interest rates on AOCI related to investment securities, cash flow hedges and pension liability adjustments.As shown in the table above, the magnitude of the impact to Citi s net interest revenue and AOCI is greater under scenario 2 as compared to scenario 3. This is because the combination of changes to Citi s investment portfolio, partially offset by changes related to Citi s pension liabilities, results in a net position that is more sensitive to rates at shorter- and intermediate-term maturities.In recent years, a number of central banks, including the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan and the Swiss National Bank, have implemented negative interest rates, and additional governmental entities could do so in the future. While negative interest rates can adversely impact net interest revenue (as well as net interest margin), Citi has, to date, been able to partially offset the impact of negative rates in these jurisdictions through a combination of business and Citi Treasury interest rate risk mitigation activities, including applying negative rates to client accounts (for additional information on Citi Treasury s ongoing interest rate mitigation activities, see  Market Risk Market Risk of Non-Trading Portfolios  in Citi s 2017 Annual Reporting on Form 10-K).Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Impacts on AOCI and CapitalAs of March 31, 2018, Citi estimates that an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 5% appreciation of the U.S. dollar against all of the other currencies in which Citi has invested capital could reduce Citi s tangible common equity (TCE) by approximately $1.6 billion, or 1.0%, as a result of changes to Citi s foreign currency translation adjustment in AOCI, net of hedges. This impact would be primarily due to changes in the value of the Mexican peso, the Euro and the Australian dollar. This impact is also before any mitigating actions Citi may take, including ongoing management of its foreign currency translation exposure. Specifically, as currency movements change the value of Citi s net investments in foreign currency-denominated capital, these movements also change the value of Citi s risk-weighted assets denominated in those currencies. This, coupled with Citi s foreign currency hedging strategies, such as foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and other currency hedging instruments, lessens the impact of foreign currency movements on Citi s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio. Changes in these hedging strategies, as well as hedging costs, divestitures and tax impacts, can further affect the actual impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on Citi s capital as compared to an unanticipated parallel shock, as described above.The effect of Citi s ongoing management strategies with respect to changes in foreign exchange rates and the impact of these changes on Citi s TCE and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio are shown in the table below. For additional information on the changes in AOCI, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For the quarter endedIn millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)Mar. 31, 2018Dec. 31, 2017Mar. 31, 2017Change in FX spot rate(1)2.5%(1.2)%4.5%Change in TCE due to FX translation, net of hedges$676$(498)$654As a percentage of TCE0.4%(0.3)%0.4%Estimated impact to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis) due   to changes in FX translation, net of hedges (bps)(2)(5)(2)(1) FX spot rate change is a weighted average based upon Citi s quarterly average GAAP capital exposure to foreign countries.65Interest Revenue/Expense and Net Interest MarginNote: All interest expense amounts include FDIC, as well as other similar deposit insurance assessments outside of the U.S.(1)Net interest revenue includes the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rates of 21% in 2018 and 35% in 2017) of $64 million, $128 million, and $123 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively. (2)Interest expense associated with certain hybrid financial instruments, which are classified as Long-term debt and accounted for at fair value, is reported together with any changes in fair value as part of Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statements of Income and is therefore not reflected in Interest expense in the table above.(3)Citi s net interest margin (NIM) is calculated by dividing gross interest revenue less gross interest expense by average interest-earning assets.Citi s net interest revenue in the first quarter of 2018 increased 2% to $11.2 billion (as set forth in the table above, up 1% on a taxable equivalent basis) versus the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of FX translation, net interest revenue increased approximately $90 million, primarily due to higher net interest revenue from Citi s core accrual activities, which are mainly driven by its deposit and lending businesses ($10.7 billion, up approximately 8% or $0.8 billion), largely offset by lower trading-related net interest revenue ($0.2 billion, down approximately 69% or $0.5 billion) and lower net interest revenue associated with the wind-down of legacy assets in Corporate/Other ($0.3 billion, down approximately 38% or $0.2 billion). The increase in the core accrual net interest revenue was driven mainly by the benefit of the March 2017,  June 2017 and December 2017 interest rate increases and loan growth.Citi s NIM was 2.64% on a taxable equivalent basis in the first quarter of 2018, a decrease of 12 bps from the prior- year period, driven primarily by lower trading-related NIM. Citi s core accrual NIM was 3.54%, an increase of 3 bps versus the prior-year period, as the higher core accrual net interest revenue was partially offset by balance sheet growth, particularly in cash balances. (Citi s core accrual net interest revenue and core accrual NIM are non-GAAP financial measures.)66Additional Interest Rate DetailsAverage Balances and Interest Rates Assets(1)(2)(3) Taxable Equivalent Basis(1)Net interest revenue includes the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rates of 21% in 2018 and 35% in 2017) of $64 million, $128 million, and $123 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. (2)Interest rates and amounts include the effects of risk management activities associated with the respective asset categories.(3)Monthly or quarterly averages have been used by certain subsidiaries where daily averages are unavailable.(4)Average rates reflect prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.(5)Average volumes of securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell are reported net pursuant to ASC 210-20-45. However, Interest revenue excludes the impact of ASC 210-20-45.(6)The fair value carrying amounts of derivative contracts are reported net, pursuant to ASC 815-10-45, in Non-interest-earning assets and Other non-interest-bearing liabilities.(7)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.(8)Includes cash-basis loans. (9)Includes brokerage receivables.67Average Balances and Interest Rates Liabilities and Equity, and Net Interest Revenue(1)(2)(3) Taxable Equivalent Basis(1)Net interest revenue includes the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rates of 21% in 2018 and 35% in 2017) of $64 million, $128 million, and $123 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. (2)Interest rates and amounts include the effects of risk management activities associated with the respective liability categories.(3)Monthly or quarterly averages have been used by certain subsidiaries where daily averages are unavailable.(4)Consists of other time deposits and savings deposits. Savings deposits are made up of insured money market accounts, NOW accounts and other savings deposits. The interest expense on savings deposits includes FDIC deposit insurance assessments.(5)Average rates reflect prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.(6)Average volumes of securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reported net pursuant to ASC 210-20-45. However, Interest expense excludes the impact of ASC 210-20-45.(7)The fair value carrying amounts of derivative contracts are reported net, pursuant to ASC 815-10-45, in Non-interest-earning assets and Other non-interest-bearing liabilities.68(8)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.(9)Includes brokerage payables.(10)Excludes hybrid financial instruments and beneficial interests in consolidated VIEs that are classified as Long-term debt, as the changes in fair value for these obligations are recorded in Principal transactions.(11)Includes allocations for capital and funding costs based on the location of the asset.Analysis of Changes in Interest Revenue(1)(2)(3) (1)The taxable equivalent adjustment is related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rates of 21% in 2018 and 35% in 2017 and is included in this presentation.(2)Rate/volume variance is allocated based on the percentage relationship of changes in volume and changes in rate to the total net change.(3)Detailed average volume, Interest revenue and Interest expense exclude Discontinued operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)Changes in average rates reflect changes in prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.(5)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.(6)Includes cash-basis loans.(7)Includes brokerage receivables.69Analysis of Changes in Interest Expense and Net Interest Revenue(1)(2)(3) (1)The taxable equivalent adjustment is related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rates of 21% in 2018 and 35% in 2017 and is included in this presentation.(2)Rate/volume variance is allocated based on the percentage relationship of changes in volume and changes in rate to the total net change.(3)Detailed average volume, Interest revenue and Interest expense exclude Discontinued operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)Changes in average rates reflect changes in prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.(5)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.(6)Includes brokerage payables.70Market Risk of Trading PortfoliosFor additional information on Citi s market risk of trading portfolios, see  Market Risk Market Risk of Trading Portfolios  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Value at RiskAs of March 31, 2018, Citi estimates that the conservative features of its VAR calibration contribute an approximate 17% add-on to what would be a VAR estimated under the assumption of stable and perfectly normal distributed markets. As of December 31, 2017, the add-on was 20%. As set forth in the table below, Citi's average trading VAR as of March 31, 2018 increased compared to December 31, 2017. The increase was due to higher average credit spread risk, foreign exchange risk and equity risk in the Markets businesses within ICG. The increase of average trading and credit portfolio VAR was in line with the increase of average trading VAR. The average incremental impact of the credit portfolio was materially unchanged from December 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018.Quarter-end and Average Trading VAR and Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR (1)Covariance adjustment (also known as diversification benefit) equals the difference between the total VAR and the sum of the VARs tied to each individual risk type. The benefit reflects the fact that the risks within each and across risk types are not perfectly correlated and, consequently, the total VAR on a given day will be lower than the sum of the VARs relating to each individual risk type. The determination of the primary drivers of changes to the covariance adjustment is made by an examination of the impact of both model parameter and position changes.(2)The total trading VAR includes mark-to-market and certain fair value option trading positions in ICG, with the exception of hedges to the loan portfolio, fair value option loans and all CVA exposures. Available-for-sale and accrual exposures are not included.(3)The specific risk-only component represents the level of equity and fixed income issuer-specific risk embedded in VAR. (4)The credit portfolio is composed of mark-to-market positions associated with non-trading business units including Citi Treasury, the CVA relating to derivative counterparties and all associated CVA hedges. FVA and DVA are not included. The credit portfolio also includes hedges to the loan portfolio, fair value option loans and hedges to the leveraged finance pipeline within capital markets origination in ICG. 71The table below provides the range of market factor VARs associated with Citi s total trading VAR, inclusive of specific risk:Note: No covariance adjustment can be inferred from the above table as the high and low for each market factor will be from different close-of-business dates.The following table provides the VAR for ICG, excluding the CVA relating to derivative counterparties, hedges of CVA, fair value option loans and hedges to the loan portfolio:In millions of dollarsMar. 31, 2018Total all market risk factors, including   general and specific risk Average during quarter$92High during quarter119Low during quarter78Regulatory VAR Back-testingIn accordance with Basel III, Citi is required to perform back-testing to evaluate the effectiveness of its Regulatory VAR model. Regulatory VAR back-testing is the process in which the daily one-day VAR, at a 99% confidence interval, is compared to the buy-and-hold profit and loss (i.e., the profit and loss impact if the portfolio is held constant at the end of the day and re-priced the following day). Buy-and-hold profit and loss represents the daily mark-to-market profit and loss attributable to price movements in covered positions from the close of the previous business day. Buy-and-hold profit and loss excludes realized trading revenue, net interest, fees and commissions, intra-day trading profit and loss and changes in reserves.Based on a 99% confidence level, Citi would expect two to three days in any one year where buy-and-hold losses exceeded the Regulatory VAR. Given the conservative calibration of Citi s VAR model (as a result of taking the greater of short- and long-term volatilities and fat-tail scaling of volatilities), Citi would expect fewer exceptions under normal and stable market conditions. Periods of unstable market conditions could increase the number of back-testing exceptions.As of March 31, 2018, there were no back-testing exceptions observed for Citi s Regulatory VAR for the prior 12 months.72Country RiskFor additional information on country risk at Citi, see  Country Risk  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Top 25 Country Exposures The following table presents Citi s top 25 exposures bycountry (excluding the U.S.) as of March 31, 2018. The total exposure as of March 31, 2018 to the top 25 countries disclosed below, in combination with the U.S., would represent approximately 94% of Citi s exposure to all countries. For purposes of the table, loan amounts are reflected in the country where the loan is booked, which is generally based on the domicile of the borrower. For example, a loan to a Chinese subsidiary of a Switzerland-based corporation will generally be categorized as a loan in China. In addition, Citi has developed regional booking centers in certain countries, most significantly in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Ireland,  in order to more efficiently serve its corporate customers. As an example, with respect to the U.K., only 28% of corporateloans presented in the table below are to U.K. domiciledentities (30% for unfunded commitments), with the balance ofthe loans predominately to European domiciled counterparties.Approximately 83% of the total U.K. funded loans and 90% ofthe total U.K. unfunded commitments were investment gradeas of March 31, 2018. Trading account assets and investment securities are generally categorized based on the domicile of the issuer of the security of the underlying reference entity. For additional information on the assets included in the table, see the footnotes to the table below.For a discussion of uncertainties arising as a result of the terms and other uncertainties resulting from the U.K. s potential exit from the EU, see  Risk Factors Strategic Risks  in Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. (1)ICG loans reflect funded corporate loans and private bank loans, net of unearned income. As of March 31, 2018, private bank loans in the table above totaled $24.1 billion, concentrated in Hong Kong ($7.1 billion), Singapore ($7.0 billion) and the U.K. ($5.3 billion).                     73(2)GCB loans include funded loans in Colombia related to businesses that were transferred to Corporate/Other as of January 1, 2016.(3)Other funded includes other direct exposure such as accounts receivable, loans HFS, other loans in Corporate/Other and investments accounted for under the equity method.                                        (4)Unfunded exposure includes unfunded corporate lending commitments, letters of credit and other contingencies.            (5)Net mark-to-market counterparty risk on OTC derivatives and securities lending/borrowing transactions (repos). Exposures are shown net of collateral and inclusive of CVA. Includes margin loans.                                    (6)Investment securities include securities available-for-sale, recorded at fair market value, and securities held-to-maturity, recorded at historical cost.                                    (7)Trading account assets are shown on a net basis and include issuer risk on cash products and derivative exposure where the underlying reference entity/issuer is located in that country.    74INCOME TAXESDeferred Tax Assets For additional information on Citi s deferred tax assets (DTAs), see  Risk Factors Strategic Risks,   Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates Income Taxes  and Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. At March 31, 2018, Citigroup had recorded net DTAs of approximately $23.0 billion, an increase of $0.5 billion from December 31, 2017. The increase was primarily driven by losses in Other Comprehensive Income and adoption of ASU 2016-16 (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by earnings.The following table summarizes Citi s net DTAs balance. Of Citi s net DTAs as of March 31, 2018, those arising from net operating losses, foreign tax credit and general business credit carry-forwards are 100% deducted in calculating Citi s regulatory capital, while DTAs arising from temporary differences are deducted from regulatory capital if in excess of the 10%/15% limitations. Despite a $0.5 billion increase in net DTAs from December 31, 2017, Citi was able to reduce the amount of DTAs arising from net operating losses, foreign tax credits and general business credit carry-forwards by $0.3 billion, thereby reducing the amount of DTAs that were excluded from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital from $12.3 billion to $12.0 billion as of March 31, 2018. There were no DTAs in excess of the 10%/15% limitations as of March 31, 2018, (see  Capital Resources  above). Thus, approximately $11.0 billion of net DTAs were not deducted in calculating regulatory capital pursuant to Basel III standards as of March 31, 2018 and were appropriately risk weighted as per those rules. Effective Tax RateCiti s effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 was 23.7%, as compared with 31.1% in the first quarter of 2017. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the lower U.S. federal statutory tax rate pursuant to Tax Reform. The 23.7% effective tax rate was lower than the roughly 25% expected rate for the full year 2018 due to discrete tax items in the first quarter of 2018.SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118Citi s first quarter of 2018 tax provision did not include any material changes to Citi s provisional income tax estimates recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017.75FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDSAccounting for Financial Instruments Credit LossesIn June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326). The ASU introduces a new credit loss methodology, Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) methodology, which requires earlier recognition of credit losses, while also providing additional transparency about credit risk.The CECL methodology utilizes a lifetime  expected credit loss  measurement objective for the recognition of credit losses for loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other receivables at the time the financial asset is originated or acquired. The expected credit losses (ECL) are adjusted each period for changes in expected lifetime credit losses. This methodology replaces the multiple existing impairment methods in current GAAP, which generally require that a loss be incurred before it is recognized. For available-for-sale debt securities where fair value is less than cost, credit-related impairment, if any, will be recognized through an allowance for credit losses and adjusted each period for changes in credit risk. The CECL methodology represents a significant change from existing GAAP and may result in material changes to the Company s accounting for financial instruments. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-13 will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures. The impact of the ASU will depend upon the state of the economy and the nature of Citi s portfolios at the date of adoption. Based on a preliminary analysis performed in 2017 and the environment and portfolios at that time, the overall impact was estimated to be an approximate 10% to 20% increase in credit reserves as of that time. Moreover, there are still some implementation questions, including whether it is permitted to include estimated recoveries on fully written-off accounts in the ECL, whether reversal of accrued interest on non-accrual loans can be reflected in interest revenue, and whether internal refinancings on wholesale loans are considered to be prepayments, that will need to be resolved that could affect the estimated impact. The ASU will be effective for Citi as of January 1, 2020. For additional information, see  Capital Resources Regulatory Capital Treatment Implementation and Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) Methodology  above. Lease AccountingIn February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which is intended to increase transparency and comparability of accounting for lease transactions. The ASU will require lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as lease assets and lease liabilities and will require both quantitative and qualitative disclosures regarding key information about leasing arrangements. Lessor accounting is largely unchanged. The guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2019 with an option to early adopt. The Company does not plan to early adopt the ASU. The Company estimates that upon adoption, its Consolidated Balance Sheet will have  an approximate $5 billion increase in assets and liabilities. Additionally, the Company estimates an approximate $200 million increase in retained earnings due to the cumulative effect of recognizing previously deferred gains on sale/leaseback transactions. Subsequent Measurement of GoodwillIn January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. The ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill impairment by eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (i.e., the current Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Under the ASU, the impairment test is the comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount (the current Step 1), with the impairment charge being the deficit in fair value but not exceeding the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The simplified one-step impairment test applies to all reporting units (including those with zero or negative carrying amounts).The ASU will be effective for Citi as of January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The impact of the ASU will depend upon the performance of Citi s reporting units and the market conditions impacting the fair value of each reporting unit going forward.See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of  Accounting Changes. 76DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESCiti s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, including without limitation that information required to be disclosed by Citi in its SEC filings is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Citi s Disclosure Committee assists the CEO and CFO in their responsibilities to design, establish, maintain and evaluate the effectiveness of Citi s disclosure controls and procedures. The Disclosure Committee is responsible for, among other things, the oversight, maintenance and implementation of the disclosure controls and procedures, subject to the supervision and oversight of the CEO and CFO.Citi s management, with the participation of its CEO and CFO, has evaluated the effectiveness of Citigroup s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of March 31, 2018 and, based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that at that date, Citigroup s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 219 OF THE IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA HUMAN RIGHTS ACTPursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Citi is required to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with individuals or entities that are subject to sanctions under U.S. law. Disclosure is generally required even where the activities, transactions or dealings were conducted in compliance with applicable law. Citi had no reportable activities pursuant to Section 219 for the first quarter of 2018. 77FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSCertain statements in this Form 10-Q, including but not limited to statements included within the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, Citigroup also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or furnished with the SEC, and its management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others.Generally, forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts but instead represent Citigroup s and its management s beliefs regarding future events. Such statements may be identified by words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, may increase, may fluctuate, target, illustrative, and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as will, should, would and could.Such statements are based on management s current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Actual results and capital and other financial conditions may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including without limitation (i) the precautionary statements included within each individual business s discussion and analysis of its results of operations above and in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K; (ii) the factors listed and described under  Risk Factors  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K; and (iii) the risks and uncertainties summarized below: the potential impact on Citi s ability to return capital to common shareholders, consistent with its capital optimization efforts and targets, due to, among other things, Citi s results of operations, Citi s ability to effectively manage its level of risk weighted assets and GSIB surcharge, potential changes to the regulatory capital framework, the CCAR process and the results of regulatory stress tests or any changes to the stress testing and CCAR requirements or process, such as the proposed introduction of a firm-specific  stress capital buffer  (SCB), including as a result of any year-to-year variability resulting from the SCB and the impact on Citi s estimated management buffer; the ongoing regulatory and other uncertainties and changes faced by financial institutions, including Citi, in the U.S. and globally, including, among others, uncertainties and potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital framework, and the potential impact these uncertainties and changes could have on Citi s businesses, results of operations, financial condition, strategy or organizational structure and compliance risks and costs; Citi s ability to utilize its remaining DTAs (including the foreign tax credit component of its DTAs) and thus reduce the negative impact of the DTAs on Citi s regulatory capital, including as a result of its ability to generate U.S. taxable income and by the provisions of and guidance issued in connection with Tax Reform;  the potential impact to Citi if its interpretation or application of the complex tax laws to which it is subject, such as withholding tax obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, differs from those of the relevant governmental authorities; Citi s ability to achieve the expected returns on its ongoing investments in its businesses and efficiency initiatives, as part of its operational and financial objectives and targets, including as a result of factors that Citi cannot control; the potential impact from declining sales and revenues or other difficulties of any retailer or merchant with whom Citi has a co-branding or private label credit card relationship, termination of a particular relationship, or external factors affecting such retailer or merchant, including bankruptcies, liquidations, consolidations and other similar events, and the potential negative impact such an event could have on Citi, including as a result of loss of revenues, higher cost of credit, impairment of purchased credit card relationships and contract-related intangibles or other losses; the potential impact to Citi s businesses, credit costs, deposits, revenues or other results of operations and financial condition as a result of macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges and uncertainties and volatility, including the process for the U.K. to withdraw from the European Union, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, such as changes in the federal funds rate and any balance sheet normalization program implemented by the Federal Reserve Board or other central banks, the further pursuit of protectionist trade or other related policies by the U.S. and/or other countries, or geopolitical disputes or other instabilities, including those in Asia, the Middle East or elsewhere; the various risks faced by Citi as a result of its presence in the emerging markets, including, among others, sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability (including from hyper-inflation), fraud, nationalization or loss of licenses, business restrictions, sanctions or asset freezes, potential criminal charges, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets as well as the increased compliance, regulatory and legal risks and costs; Citi s ability in its resolution plan submissions to address any deficiencies identified or future guidance provided by the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC; the potential impact on Citi s performance, including its competitive position and ability to effectively manage its businesses and continue to execute its strategies, if Citi is unable to hire and retain highly qualified employees for any reason;  Citi s ability to effectively compete with U.S. and non-U.S. financial services companies and others; the potential impact of concentrations of risk, such as credit and market risk arising from the size and volume of Citi s transactions with counterparties in the public sector, including the U.S. government and its agencies, or in the financial services industry, on Citi s results of operations;78 the potential impacts on Citi s liquidity and/or costs of funding as a result of external factors, including, among others, market disruptions and governmental fiscal and monetary policies as well as regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of Citi s creditworthiness; the impact of ratings downgrades of Citi or one or more of its more significant subsidiaries or issuing entities on Citi s funding and liquidity as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses; the potential impact to Citi from a disruption of its operational systems, including as a result of, among other things, human error, fraud or malice, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages or failure of computer servers, or other similar damage to Citi s property or assets, or failures by third parties with whom Citi does business, as well as disruptions in the operations of Citi s clients, customers or other third parties; the increasing risk of continually evolving, sophisticated cybersecurity risks faced by financial institutions, including Citi and third parties with whom it does business, and others (such as theft of funds or theft, loss, misuse or disclosure of confidential client, customer, corporate or network information or assets and other attempts by unauthorized parties to disrupt computer and network systems), and the potential impact from such risks, including, among others, reputational damage with clients, customers and others, lost revenues, additional costs (including credit, remediation and other costs), regulatory penalties and inquiries, legal exposure and other financial losses; the potential impact of incorrect assumptions or estimates in Citi s financial statements or the impact of ongoing changes to financial accounting and reporting standards or interpretations, such as the FASB s 2020 accounting standard on credit losses, on how Citi records and reports its financial condition and results of operations; the potential impact to Citi s results of operations and/or regulatory capital and capital ratios if Citi s risk management process, strategies or models, including those related to its ability to manage and aggregate data, are deficient or ineffective, require refinement, modification or enhancement or any approval is withdrawn by Citi s U.S. banking regulators; the potential impact to Citi of ongoing implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes and requirements in the U.S. and globally, such as on Citi s compliance  risks and costs, including reputational and legal risks as well as remediation and other financial costs, such as penalties and fines; and the potential outcomes of the extensive legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations and other inquiries to which Citi is or may be subject at any given time, particularly given the increased focus on conduct risk and the severity of the remedies sought and potential collateral consequences to Citi arising from such outcomes.Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Citigroup speak only as to the date they are made, and Citi does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made.79This page intentionally left blank.80FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES TABLE OF CONTENTSCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 201782Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 201783Consolidated Balance Sheet March 31, 2018 (Unaudited) and December 31, 201784Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders  Equity (Unaudited) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 201786Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 201787NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Accounting Changes89Note 2 Discontinued Operations and Significant Disposals92Note 3 Business Segments93Note 4 Interest Revenue and Expense94Note 5 Commissions and Fees; Administration and Other                  Fiduciary Fees95Note 6 Principal Transactions98Note 7 Incentive Plans99Note 8 Retirement Benefits99Note 9 Earnings per Share103Note 10 Federal Funds, Securities Borrowed, Loaned and                    Subject to Repurchase Agreements104Note 11 Brokerage Receivables and Brokerage Payables107Note 12 Investments108   Note 13 Loans120Note 14 Allowance for Credit Losses131Note 15 Goodwill and Intangible Assets133Note 16 Debt135Note 17 Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive                  Income (Loss) (AOCI)136Note 18 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities139Note 19 Derivatives Activities147Note 20 Fair Value Measurement158Note 21 Fair Value Elections173Note 22 Guarantees and Commitments177Note 23 Contingencies183Note 24 Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements18581CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (UNAUDITED) Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries    Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars, except per share amounts20182017Revenues  Interest revenue$16,332$14,521Interest expense5,1603,566Net interest revenue$11,172$10,955Commissions and fees$3,030$3,055Principal transactions3,2893,094Administration and other fiduciary fees905834Realized gains on sales of investments, net170192Impairment losses on investments  Gross impairment losses(28)(12)Less: Impairments recognized in AOCI  Net impairment losses recognized in earnings$(28)$(12)Other revenue$334$248Total non-interest revenues$7,700$7,411Total revenues, net of interest expense $18,872$18,366Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims  Provision for loan losses$1,803$1,675Policyholder benefits and claims2630Release for unfunded lending commitments28(43)Total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims$1,857$1,662Operating expenses  Compensation and benefits$5,807$5,534Premises and equipment593620Technology/communication1,7581,663Advertising and marketing381373Other operating2,3862,533Total operating expenses$10,925$10,723Income from continuing operations before income taxes$6,090$5,981Provision for income taxes1,4411,863Income from continuing operations$4,649$4,118Discontinued operations  Loss from discontinued operations$(7)$(28)Benefit for income taxes (10)Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes$(7)$(18)Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$4,642$4,100Noncontrolling interests2210Citigroup s net income$4,620$4,090Basic earnings per share(1)  Income from continuing operations$1.68$1.36Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes (0.01)Net income$1.68$1.35Weighted average common shares outstanding2,561.62,765.382Diluted earnings per share(1)  Income from continuing operations$1.68$1.36Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes (0.01)Net income$1.68$1.35Adjusted weighted average common shares outstanding2,563.02,765.5(1)Due to rounding, earnings per share on continuing operations and discontinued operations may not sum to earnings per share on net income.The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries(UNAUDITED)   Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Citigroup s net income$4,620$4,090Add: Citigroup's other comprehensive income    Net change in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities,   net of taxes(1)(2)$(1,058)$220Net change in debt valuation adjustment (DVA), net of taxes(1)128(60)Net change in cash flow hedges, net of taxes(222)(2)Benefit plans liability adjustment, net of taxes 88(12)Net change in foreign currency translation adjustment, net of taxes and hedges1,1201,318Net change in excluded component of fair value hedges, net of taxes(4) Citigroup s total other comprehensive income$52$1,464Citigroup s total comprehensive income$4,672$5,554Add: Other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests$14$31Add: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests2210Total comprehensive income$4,708$5,595(1)See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(2)For the three months ended March 31, 2018, amount represents the net change in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities. Effective January 1, 2018, the AFS category is eliminated for equity securities under ASU 2016-01. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.83CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Citigroup Inc. and SubsidiariesThe following table presents certain assets of consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The assets in the table below include those assets that can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs, presented on the following page, and are in excess of those obligations. Additionally, the assets in the table below include third-party assets of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation.Statement continues on the next page.84CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET                                   Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries(Continued)The following table presents certain liabilities of consolidated VIEs, which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The liabilities in the table below include third-party liabilities of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation. The liabilities also exclude amounts where creditors or beneficial interest holders have recourse to the general credit of Citigroup. March 31,  2018December 31,In millions of dollars(Unaudited)2017Liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders   do not have recourse to the general credit of Citigroup  Short-term borrowings$10,242$10,142Long-term debt30,40630,492Other liabilities517611Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest   holders do not have recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$41,165$41,245The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.85CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries(UNAUDITED)  (1)See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.(2)Common dividends declared were $0.32 per share in the first quarter of 2018 and $0.16 per share in the first quarter of 2017. (3)Includes the impact of ASU 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)Includes treasury stock related to (i) certain activity on employee stock option program exercises where the employee delivers existing shares to cover the option exercise, or (ii) under Citi s employee restricted or deferred stock programs where shares are withheld to satisfy tax requirements.(5)    For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, primarily consists of open market purchases under Citi s Board of Directors-approved common stock repurchase program.The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.86CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries(UNAUDITED)   Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations  Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$4,642$4,100Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests2210Citigroup s net income$4,620$4,090Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes(7)(18)Income from continuing operations excluding noncontrolling interests$4,627$4,108Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations  Net gains on significant disposals(1) (19)Depreciation and amortization926896Provision for loan losses1,8031,675Realized gains from sales of investments(170)(192)Net impairment losses on investments, goodwill and intangible assets2840Change in trading account assets(16,054)30Change in trading account liabilities18,7914,457Change in brokerage receivables net of brokerage payables155(5,498)Change in loans HFS1,6271,949Change in other assets(3,503)(1,926)Change in other liabilities1,561(5,117)Other, net(2,835)(3,455)Total adjustments$2,329$(7,160)Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations$6,956$(3,052)Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations     Change in federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell$(25,409)$(6,116)   Change in loans   (8,717)(7,953)   Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans1,6543,191   Purchases of investments(41,030)(41,584)   Proceeds from sales of investments20,68829,456   Proceeds from maturities of investments21,50924,006   Proceeds from significant disposals(1) 2,732   Capital expenditures on premises and equipment and capitalized software(969)(786)   Proceeds from sales of premises and equipment, subsidiaries and affiliates       and repossessed assets101133   Other, net4946Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations$(32,124)$3,125Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations     Dividends paid$(1,095)$(744)   Redemption of preferred stock(97)    Treasury stock acquired(2,378)(1,858)   Stock tendered for payment of withholding taxes(475)(397)   Change in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase15,4826,409   Issuance of long-term debt20,76918,603   Payments and redemptions of long-term debt(17,882)(18,885)   Change in deposits41,39720,584   Change in short-term borrowings(8,358)(4,574)87CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED) (Continued)Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Net cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations$47,363$19,138Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks$(7)$340Change in cash and due from banks and deposits with banks(2)$22,188$19,551Cash, due from banks and deposits with banks at beginning of period(2)180,516160,494Cash, due from banks and deposits with banks at end of period(2)$202,704$180,045Cash and due from banks$21,850$22,272Deposits with banks180,854157,773Cash, due from banks and deposits with banks at end of period$202,704$180,045Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations  Cash paid during the period for income taxes$738$913Cash paid during the period for interest4,5863,250Non-cash investing activities  Transfers to loans HFS from loans$900$2,800Transfers to OREO and other repossessed assets2630(1)    See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on significant disposals.(2)    Includes the impact of ASU 2016-18, Restricted Cash. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.88NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND ACCOUNTING CHANGESBasis of PresentationThe accompanying unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 31, 2018 and for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected. The accompanying unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in Citigroup s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.Certain financial information that is normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but is not required for interim reporting purposes, has been condensed or omitted.Management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related footnote disclosures. While management uses its best judgment, actual results could differ from those estimates. As noted above, the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are unaudited. Throughout these Notes,  Citigroup,   Citi  and the  Company  refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods  financial statements and notes to conform to the current period s presentation.ACCOUNTING CHANGESRevenue RecognitionIn May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Revenue Recognition), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The core principle of the revenue model is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The ASU defines the promised good or service as the performance obligation under the contract.While the guidance replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP, the ASU is not applicable to financial instruments and, therefore, does not impact a majority of the Company s revenues, including net interest income, loan fees, gains on sales and mark-to-market accounting.In accordance with the new revenue recognition standard, Citi has identified the specific performance obligation (promised services) associated with the contract with the customer and has determined when that specific  performance obligation has been satisfied, which may be at a point in time or over time depending on how the performance obligation is defined. The contracts with customers also contain the transaction price, which consists of fixed consideration and/or consideration that may vary (variable consideration), and is defined as the amount of consideration an entity expects to be entitled to when or as the performance obligation is satisfied, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties (including transaction taxes). The amounts recognized at the point in time the performance obligation is satisfied may differ from the ultimate transaction price associated with that performance obligation when a portion of it is based on variable consideration. For example some consideration is based on the client s month-end balance or market values which are unknown at the time the contract is executed. The remaining transaction price amount, if any, will be recognized as the variable consideration becomes determinable. In certain transactions, the performance obligation is considered satisfied at a point in time in the future. In this instance, Citi defers revenue on the balance sheet that will only be recognized upon completion of the performance obligation. The new revenue recognition standard further clarified the guidance related to reporting revenue gross as principal versus net as an agent. In many cases, Citi outsources a component of its performance obligations to third parties. The Company has determined that it acts as principal in the majority of these transactions and therefore presents the amounts paid to these third parties gross within operating expenses.The Company has retrospectively adopted this standard as of January 1, 2018 and as a result was required to report amounts paid to third parties where Citi is principal to the contract within Operating expenses.  The adoption resulted in an increase in both revenue and expenses of approximately $250 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively, while increasing approximately $1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017 with similar amounts for prior periods. Prior to adoption, these expense amounts were reported as contra revenue primarily within Commissions and fees and Administration and other fiduciary fees revenue. Accordingly, prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation.See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company s revenue recognition policies for Commissions and fees and Administration and other fiduciary fees.Income Tax Impact of Intra-Entity Transfers of AssetsIn October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The ASU was effective January 1, 2018 and was adopted as of that date. The impact of this standard was an increase of DTAs by 89approximately $300 million, a decrease of retained earnings by approximately $80 million and a decrease of prepaid tax assets by approximately $380 million.  Clarifying the Definition of a BusinessIn January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business. The definition of a business directly and indirectly affects many areas of accounting (e.g., acquisitions, disposals, goodwill and consolidation). The ASU narrows the definition of a business by introducing a quantitative screen as the first step, such that if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set of transferred assets and activities is not a business. If the set is not scoped out from the quantitative screen, the entity then evaluates whether the set meets the requirement that a business include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs.The ASU was effective for public entities, including Citi, as of January 1, 2018 with prospective application. The impact of the ASU will depend upon the acquisition and disposal activities of Citi. If fewer transactions qualify as a business, there could be less initial recognition of goodwill, but also less goodwill allocated to disposals.Changes in Accounting for Pension and Postretirement (Benefit) ExpenseIn March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, which changes the income statement presentation of net benefit expense and requires restating the Company s financial statements for each of the earlier periods presented in Citi s annual and interim financial statements. The change in presentation was effective for annual and interim periods starting January 1, 2018. The ASU requires that only the service cost component of net benefit expense be included in Compensation and benefits on the income statement.  The other components of net benefit expense will be required to be presented outside of Compensation and benefits and will be presented in Other operating expense.  Since both of these income statement line items are part of Operating expenses, total Operating expenses will not change, nor will there be any change in Net income. This change in presentation did not have a material effect on Compensation and benefits and Other operating expenses and is applied prospectively. The components of the net benefit expense are currently disclosed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The new standard also changes the components of net benefit expense that are eligible for capitalization when employee costs are capitalized in connection with various activities, such as internally developed software, construction-in-progress, and loan origination costs. Prospectively from January 1, 2018, only the service cost component of net benefit expense may be capitalized.  Existing capitalized balances are not affected. This change in  amounts eligible for capitalization does not have a material effect on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures.HedgingIn August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which better aligns an entity s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The ASU requires the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item and also requires expanded disclosures. Citi adopted this standard on January 1, 2018 and transferred approximately $4 billion of pre-payable mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds held-to-maturity (HTM) securities into available-for-sale (AFS) classification as permitted as a one-time transfer under the standard as these assets were deemed to be eligible to be hedged under the last of layer hedge strategy. The impact to opening retained earnings was immaterial. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial LiabilitiesIn January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-03, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10), to clarify certain provisions in ASU 2016-01.The ASUs require entities to present separately in AOCI the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments. It also requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, thus eliminating the AFS category for equity investments. However, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank stock, as well as certain exchange seats, will continue to be presented at cost. The ASUs also provide an instrument-by-instrument election to measure non-marketable equity investments using a measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the investment is carried at cost plus or minus changes resulting from observable prices in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, less impairment (if any). Finally, the ASUs require that fair value disclosures for financial instruments not measured at fair value on the balance sheet be presented at their exit prices (e.g., held-for-investment loans).90Citi early adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-01 related to presentation of the change in fair value of liabilities for which the fair value option was elected, related to changes in Citigroup s own credit spreads in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) effective January 1, 2016. Accordingly, since the first quarter of 2016, these amounts have been reflected as a component of AOCI, whereas these amounts were previously recognized in Citigroup s revenues and net income. The impact of adopting this amendment resulted in a cumulative catch-up reclassification from retained earnings to AOCI of an accumulated after-tax loss of approximately $15 million at January 1, 2016. Financial statements for periods prior to 2016 were not subject to restatement under the provisions of this ASU. For additional information, see Notes 17, 20 and 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The other provisions of ASU 2016-01 are effective January 1, 2018. The provisions of ASU 2018-03 are effective July 1, 2018 for interim financial statements, but may be early adopted in any interim period starting January 1, 2018 as long as ASU 2016-01 is also adopted. Citi has adopted both ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2018-03 as of January 1, 2018. Accordingly, as of the first quarter of 2018, the changes to accounting for equity securities and fair value disclosures have been reflected in Citigroup s financial statements. The impact of adopting the change to AFS equity securities resulted in a cumulative catch-up reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings of an accumulated after-tax gain of approximately $3 million at January 1, 2018. Citi elected the measurement alternative for all non-marketable equity investments that no longer qualify for cost measurement under the ASUs. This provision in the ASUs was adopted prospectively. Financial statements for periods prior to 2018 were not subject to restatement under the provisions of the ASUs. For additional information, see Notes 12, 17 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Statement of Cash FlowsIn November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Restricted Cash, which requires that companies present cash, cash equivalents and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents (restricted cash) when reconciling beginning-of-period and end-of-period totals on the Statement of Cash Flows. In connection with the adoption of the ASU, Citigroup also changed its definition of cash and cash equivalents to include all of Cash and due from banks and predominately all of Deposits with banks. The Company has retrospectively adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018 and as a result Net cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations on the Statement of Cash Flows increased by $20.3 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2017.Citigroup defines restricted cash (as cash subject to withdrawal restrictions) to include cash deposited with central banks that must be maintained to meet minimum regulatory requirements, and cash set aside for the benefit of customers or for other purposes such as compensating balance arrangements or debt retirement. Restricted cash  includes minimum reserve requirements with the Federal Reserve Bank and certain other central banks and cash segregated to satisfy rules regarding the protection of customer assets as required by Citigroup broker-dealers  primary regulators, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the United Kingdom s Prudential Regulation Authority. Cash and due from banks includes restricted cash of $84 million and $39 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Deposits with banks includes restricted cash of $29.0 billion and $36.7 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which provides guidance on the classification and presentation of certain cash receipts and payments on the Statement of Cash Flows. The Company has retrospectively adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018 which resulted in immaterial changes to Citi s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt SecuritiesIn March 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-08, Receivables Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20): Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities, which amends the amortization period for certain purchased callable debt securities held at a premium. The ASU requires entities to amortize premiums on debt securities by the first call date when the securities have fixed and determinable call dates and prices. The scope of the ASU includes all accounting premiums, such as purchase premiums and cumulative fair value hedge adjustments. The ASU does not change the accounting for discounts, which continue to be recognized over the contractual life of a security.For calendar-year-end entities, the ASU is effective as of January 1, 2019, but it may be early adopted in any interim or year-end period after issuance. Adoption of the ASU is on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the year of adoption. Citi early adopted the ASU in the second quarter of 2017, with an effective date of January 1, 2017.  Adoption of the ASU primarily affected Citi s AFS and HTM portfolios of callable state and municipal debt securities. The ASU adoption resulted in a net reduction to total stockholders  equity of $156 million (after tax), effective as of January 1, 2017.  This amount is composed of a reduction of approximately $660 million to retained earnings for the incremental amortization of purchase premiums and cumulative hedge adjustments generated under fair value hedges of these callable debt securities, offset by an increase to AOCI of $504 million related to the cumulative fair value hedge adjustments reclassified to retained earnings for AFS debt securities.912. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT DISPOSALSSummary of Discontinued OperationsCiti sold the Egg Banking plc credit card business in 2011. Residual costs from the disposal resulted in losses from Discontinued operations, net of taxes, of $7 million and $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. All Discontinued operations results are recorded within Corporate/Other.     The following summarizes financial information for alldiscontinued operations: Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Total revenues, net of interest expense$ $ Loss from discontinued operations$(7)$(28)Benefit for income taxes (10)Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes$(7)$(18)Cash flows for discontinued operations were not material for the periods presented.Significant DisposalsThere were no new significant disposal transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2018. For a description of the Company s significant disposal transactions and financial impact, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 923. BUSINESS SEGMENTSCitigroup s activities are conducted through the following business segments: Global Consumer Banking (GCB) and ICG. In addition, Corporate/Other includes activities not assigned to a specific business segment, as well as certain North America and international loan portfolios, discontinued operations and other legacy assets.The prior-period balances reflect reclassifications to conform the presentation for all periods to the current period s presentation. Effective January 1, 2018, financial data was reclassified to reflect: adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue Recognition, which occurred on January 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis. See  Accounting Changes  in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; the re-attribution of certain costs between Corporate/Other and GCB and ICG; and certain other immaterial reclassifications.Citi s consolidated results remain unchanged for all periods presented as a result of the changes and reclassifications discussed above. For additional information regarding Citigroup s business segments, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.The following table presents certain information regarding the Company s continuing operations by segment:(1) Includes total revenues, net of interest expense (excluding Corporate/Other), in North America of $8.4 billion and $8.5 billion; in EMEA of $3.2 billion and $2.9 billion; in Latin America of $2.6 billion and $2.3 billion; and in Asia of $4.1 billion and $3.5 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These regional numbers exclude Corporate/Other, which largely operates within the U.S. (2) Includes pretax provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims in the GCB results of $1.9 billion and $1.8 billion; in the ICG results of $(41) million and $(205) million; and in the Corporate/Other results of $(7) million and $52 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.934.  INTEREST REVENUE AND EXPENSEInterest revenue and Interest expense consisted of the following:(1)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities is reported as a reduction of interest revenue from Trading account assets.(2)Includes deposit insurance fees and charges of $376 million and $305 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.945.  COMMISSIONS AND FEES; ADMINISTRATION     AND OTHER FIDUCIARY FEESThe primary components of Commissions and fees revenue are investment banking fees, brokerage commissions, credit- and bank-card income and deposit-related fees. Investment banking fees are substantially composed of underwriting and advisory revenues. Such fees are recognized at the point in time when Citigroup s performance under the terms of a contractual arrangement is completed, which is typically at the closing of a transaction. Reimbursed expenses related to this transactions are recorded as revenue and are included within investment banking fees. In certain instances for advisory contracts, Citi will receive amounts in advance of the deal closing. In these instances, the amounts received will be recognized as a liability and not recognized in revenue until the transaction closes. The contract liability amount for the years presented was negligible. Out-of-pocket expenses associated with underwriting activity are deferred and recognized at the time the related revenue is recognized, while out-of-pocket expenses associated with advisory arrangements are expensed as incurred. In general, expenses incurred related to investment banking transactions, whether consummated or not, are recorded in Other operating expenses. The Company has determined that it acts as principal in the majority of these transactions and therefore presents expenses gross within Other operating expenses.Brokerage commissions primarily include commissions and fees from the following: executing transactions for clients on exchanges and over-the-counter markets; sales of mutual funds, and other annuity products; and assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage services and other such activities. Brokerage commissions are recognized in Commissions and fees at the point in time the associated service is fulfilled, generally on trade-execution date. Gains or losses, if any, on these transactions are included in Principal transactions (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sales of certain investment products include a portion of variable consideration associated with the underlying product. In these instances, a portion of the revenue associated with the sale of the product is not recognized until the variable consideration becomes fixed. The Company recognized $148 million of revenue related to such variable consideration in the first quarter of 2018, compared with $96 million in the first quarter of 2017. These amounts primarily relate to performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.  Credit- and bank-card income is primarily composed of interchange fees, which are earned by card issuers based on purchase sales, and certain card fees, including annual fees. Costs related to customer reward programs and certain payments to partners (primarily based on program sales, profitability and customer acquisitions) are recorded as a reduction of Credit and bank card income. Interchange revenues are recognized as earned on a daily basis when Citi's performance obligation to transmit funds to the payment networks has been satisfied. Annual card fees, net of origination costs, are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over a 12-month period. Costs related to card reward programs are recognized when the rewards are earned by the cardholders. Payments to partners are recognized when incurred.Deposit-related fees consist of service charges on deposit accounts and fees earned from performing cash management activities and other deposit account services. Such fees are recognized in the period in which the related service is provided.Transactional service fees primarily consist of fees charged for processing services such as cash management, global payments, clearing, international funds transfer, and other trade services. Such fees are recognized as/when the associated service is satisfied, which normally occurs at the point in time the service is requested by the customer and provided by Citi.Insurance distribution revenue consists of commissions earned from third-party insurance companies for marketing and selling insurance policies on behalf of such entities. Such commissions are recognized in Commissions and fees at the point in time the associated service is fulfilled, generally when the insurance policy is sold to the policyholder. Sales of certain insurance products include a portion of variable consideration associated with the underlying product. In these instances, a portion of the revenue associated with the sale of the policy is not recognized until the variable consideration becomes determinable. The Company recognized $103 million of revenue related to such variable consideration in the first quarter of 2018, compared with $120 million in the first quarter of 2017. These amounts primarily relate to performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.Insurance premiums consist of premium income from insurance policies which Citi has underwritten and sold to policyholders.95The following tables present Commissions and fees revenue:(1)Includes $32 million and $33 million of overdraft fees in the first quarter of 2018 and the first quarter of 2017, respectively. Overdraft fees are accounted for under ASC 310.(2)Consists primarily of fees earned from structuring and underwriting loan syndications or related financing activity. This activity is accounted for under ASC 310.(3)Previously reported as insurance premiums on the Consolidated Statement of Income.(4)Commissions and fees includes $(1,545) million and $(1,278) million not accounted for under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amounts reported in Commissions and fees accounted for under other guidance primarily include card-related loan fees, card reward programs and certain partner payments, corporate finance fees, insurance premiums, and loan servicing fees.96Administration and Other Fiduciary FeesAdministration and other fiduciary fees are primarily composed of custody fees and fiduciary fees.The custody product is composed of numerous services related to the administration, safekeeping and reporting for both U.S. and non-U.S. denominated securities. The services offered to clients include: trade settlement, safekeeping, income collection, corporate action notification, record-keeping and reporting, tax reporting, and cash management. These services are provided for a wide range of securities, including but not limited to equities, municipal and corporate bonds, mortgage and asset-backed securities, money market instruments, U.S. Treasuries and agencies, derivative instruments, mutual funds, alternative investments and precious metals. Custody fees are recognized as/when the associated promised service is satisfied, which normally occurs at the point in time the service is requested by the customer and provided by Citi.Fiduciary fees consist of trust services and investment management services. As an escrow agent, Citi receives, safe- keeps, services and manages clients  escrowed assets such as cash, securities, property (including intellectual property), contracts, or other collateral. Citi performs its escrow agent duties by safekeeping the funds during the specified time period agreed upon by all parties and therefore earns its revenue evenly during the contract duration. Investment management services consist of managing assets on behalf of Citi s retail and institutional clients. Revenue from these services primarily consists of asset-based fees for advisory accounts, which are based on the market value of the client s assets and recognized monthly, when the market value is fixed. In some instances, the Company contracts with third-party advisors and to third-party custodians. The Company has determined that it acts as principal in the majority of these transactions and therefore presents the amounts paid to third parties gross within Other operating expenses.The following table presents Administration and other fiduciary fees:(1)  Administration and other fiduciary fees includes $153 million and $143 million for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, that are not accounted for under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. These amounts include guarantee fees.976.  PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONSPrincipal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities. Trading activities include revenues from fixed income, equities, credit and commodities products and foreign exchange transactions which are managed on a portfolio basis characterized by primary risk. Not included in the table below is the impact of net interest revenue related to trading activities, which is anintegral part of trading activities  profitability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about net interest revenue related to trading activities. Principal transactions include CVA (credit valuation adjustments on derivatives) and FVA (funding valuation adjustments) on over-the-counter derivatives. These adjustments are discussed further in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        In certain transactions, Citi incurs fees and presents these fees paid to third parties in operating expenses.       The following table presents Principal transactionsrevenue:(1)Primarily relates to foreign exchange risks.(2)Includes revenues from government securities and corporate debt, municipal securities, mortgage securities and other debt instruments. Also includes spot and forward trading of currencies and exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) currency options, options on fixed income securities, interest rate swaps, currency swaps, swap options, caps and floors, financial futures, OTC options and forward contracts on fixed income securities.(3)Includes revenues from foreign exchange spot, forward, option and swap contracts, as well as foreign currency translation (FX translation) gains and losses.(4)Includes revenues from common, preferred and convertible preferred stock, convertible corporate debt, equity-linked notes and exchange-traded and OTC equity options and warrants.(5)Primarily includes revenues from crude oil, refined oil products, natural gas and other commodities trades.(6)Includes revenues from structured credit products.987.   INCENTIVE PLANSFor additional information on Citi s incentive plans, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.8. RETIREMENT BENEFITSFor additional information on Citi s retirement benefits, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Net (Benefit) ExpenseThe following table summarizes the components of net (benefit) expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company s pension and postretirement plans for Significant Plans and All Other Plans: (1)Losses due to settlement relate to repositioning and divestiture activities.99Funded Status and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI)The following tables summarize the funded status and amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the Company sSignificant Plans. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Pension plansPostretirement benefit plansIn millions of dollarsU.S. plansNon-U.S. plansU.S. plansNon-U.S. plansChange in projected benefit obligation     Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year$14,040$7,433$699$1,261Plans measured annually(28)(1,987) (334)Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year Significant Plans$14,012$5,446$699$927Benefits earned during the period122 2Interest cost on benefit obligation12363623Actuarial (gain) loss(495)(6)(21)5Benefits paid, net of participants  contributions and government subsidy(205)(68)(17)(12)Foreign exchange impact and other 140 71Projected benefit obligation at period end Significant Plans$13,436$5,597$667$1,016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Pension plansPostretirement benefit plansIn millions of dollarsU.S. plansNon-U.S. plansU.S. plansNon-U.S. plansChange in plan assets    Plan assets at fair value at beginning of year$12,725$7,128$262$1,119Plans measured annually (1,305) (10)Plan assets at fair value at beginning of year Significant Plans$12,725$5,823$262$1,109Actual return on plan assets(157)26 (14)Company contributions, net of reimbursements1311(4) Benefits paid, net of participants  contributions and government subsidy(205)(68)(17)(12)Foreign exchange impact and other 146 84Plan assets at fair value at period end Significant Plans$12,376$5,938$241$1,167Funded status of the Significant Plans    Qualified plans(1)$(365)$341$(426)$151Nonqualified plans(695)   Funded status of the plans at period end Significant Plans$(1,060)$341$(426)$151Net amount recognized at period end    Benefit asset$ $829$ $151Benefit liability(1,060)(488)(426) Net amount recognized on the balance sheet Significant Plans$(1,060)$341$(426)$151Amounts recognized in AOCI at period end   Prior service benefit $ $27$ $86Net actuarial (loss) gain(6,644)(882)89(364)Net amount recognized in equity (pretax) Significant Plans$(6,644)$(855)$89$(278)     Accumulated benefit obligation at period end Significant Plans$13,430$5,329$667$1,016(1)The U.S. qualified pension plan is fully funded pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), funding rules as of January 1, 2018 and no minimum required funding is expected for 2018.100The following table shows the change in AOCI related to the Company s pension, postretirement and post employment plans:In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended  March 31, 2018For Year Ended December 31, 2017Beginning of period balance, net of tax(1)(2)$(6,183)$(5,164)Actuarial assumptions changes and plan experience516(760)Net asset (loss) gain due to difference between actual and expected returns(451)625Net amortization58229Prior service cost (4)Curtailment/settlement gain(3)417Foreign exchange impact and other(36)(93)Impact of Tax Reform(4) (1,020)Change in deferred taxes, net(3)(13)Change, net of tax$88$(1,019)End of period balance, net of tax(1)(2)$(6,095)$(6,183)(1)See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of net AOCI balance.(2)Includes net-of-tax amounts for certain profit sharing plans outside the U.S.(3)Gains due to curtailment and settlement relate to repositioning and divestiture activities.(4)In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company adopted ASU 2018-02, which transferred these amounts from AOCI to Retained earnings. See Note 1 to the 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements.Plan AssumptionsThe discount rates utilized during the period in determining the pension and postretirement net (benefit) expense for the Significant Plans are as follows:The discount rates utilized at period-end in determining the pension and postretirement benefit obligations for the Significant Plans are as follows: Sensitivities of Certain Key AssumptionsThe following table summarizes the estimated effect on the Company s Significant Plans quarterly expense of a one-percentage-point change in the discount rate: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018In millions of dollarsOne-percentage-point increaseOne-percentage-point decreasePension     U.S. plans$8$(12)   Non-U.S. plans(3)6Postretirement     U.S. plans (1)   Non-U.S. plans(2)3101ContributionsFor the U.S. pension plans, there were no required minimum cash contributions during the first three months of 2018. The following table summarizes the Company s actual contributions for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, as well as estimated expected Company contributions for the remainder of 2018 and the actual contributions made for the remainder of 2017. (1)The U.S. pension plans include benefits paid directly by the Company for the nonqualified pension plans.(2)Company contributions are composed of cash contributions made to the plans and benefits paid directly by the Company.Defined Contribution PlansThe following table summarizes the Company s contributions for the defined contribution plans:Post Employment PlansThe following table summarizes the components of net expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company s U.S. post employment plans: Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Service-related expense$ $ Interest cost on benefit obligation  Amortization of unrecognized     Prior service benefit(8)(8)     Net actuarial loss11Total service-related benefit$(7)$(7)Non-service-related expense$6$8Total net (benefit) expense$(1)$1 1029.     EARNINGS PER SHAREThe following table reconciles the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) computations: Three Months Ended March 31,In millions, except per-share amounts20182017Income from continuing operations before attribution of noncontrolling interests$4,649$4,118Less: Noncontrolling interests from continuing operations2210Net income from continuing operations (for EPS purposes)$4,627$4,108Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes(7)(18)Citigroup's net income$4,620$4,090Less: Preferred dividends(1)272301Net income available to common shareholders$4,348$3,789Less: Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to employee restricted and deferred shares with nonforfeitable rights to dividends, applicable to basic EPS5155Net income allocated to common shareholders for basic EPS$4,297$3,734Net income allocated to common shareholders for diluted EPS4,2973,734Weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to basic EPS2,561.62,765.3Effect of dilutive securities(2)     Options(3)0.10.2Other employee plans1.3 Adjusted weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to diluted EPS(4)2,563.02,765.5Basic earnings per share(5)  Income from continuing operations$1.68$1.36Discontinued operations (0.01)Net income$1.68$1.35Diluted earnings per share(5)  Income from continuing operations$1.68$1.36Discontinued operations (0.01)Net income$1.68$1.35(1)As of March 31, 2018, Citi estimates it will distribute preferred dividends of approximately $902 million during the remainder of 2018, assuming such dividends are declared by the Citi Board of Directors. During the first quarter of 2018, Citi redeemed all of its 3.8 million Series AA preferred shares for $96.8 million at par value. Citi redeemed its Series E preferred stock in April 2018.(2)Warrants issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the loss-sharing agreement (all of which were subsequently sold to the public in January 2011), with exercise prices of $178.50 and $104.67 per share for approximately 21.0 million and 25.5 million shares of Citigroup common stock, respectively. Both warrants were not included in the computation of earnings per share in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 because they were anti-dilutive.(3)During the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, weighted-average options to purchase 0.5 million and 0.9 million shares of common stock, respectively, were outstanding, but not included in the computation of earnings per share because the weighted-average exercise prices of $149.41 and $201.01 per share, respectively, were anti-dilutive.(4)Due to rounding, common shares outstanding applicable to basic EPS and the effect of dilutive securities may not sum to common shares outstanding applicable to diluted EPS.(5)Due to rounding, earnings per share on continuing operations and discontinued operations may not sum to earnings per share on net income.10310.   FEDERAL FUNDS, SECURITIES BORROWED, LOANED AND SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE AGREEMENTSFor additional information on the Company s resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending agreements, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, at their respective carrying values, consisted of the following:Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, at their respective carrying values, consisted of the following:(1)The above tables do not include securities-for-securities lending transactions of $15.6 billion and $14.0 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, where the Company acts as lender and receives securities that can be sold or pledged as collateral. In these transactions, the Company recognizes the securities received at fair value within Other assets and the obligation to return those securities as a liability within Brokerage payables.  It is the Company s policy to take possession of the underlying collateral, monitor its market value relative to the amounts due under the agreements and, when necessary, require prompt transfer of additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection. For resale and repurchase agreements, when necessary, the Company posts additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection. A substantial portion of the resale and repurchase agreements is recorded at fair value, as described in Notes 20 and 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The remaining portion is carried at the amount of cash initially advanced or received, plus accrued interest, as specified in the respective agreements.A substantial portion of securities borrowing and lending agreements is recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received. The remaining portion is recorded at fair value as the Company elected the fair value option for certain securities borrowed and loaned portfolios, as described in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. With respect to securities loaned, the Company receives cash collateral in an amount generally in excess of the market value of the securities loaned. The Company monitors the market value of securities borrowed and securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection. The following tables present the gross and net resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending agreements and the related offsetting amount permitted under ASC-210-20-45. The tables also include amounts related to financial instruments that are not permitted to be offset under ASC-210-20-45, but would be eligible for offsetting to the extent that an event of default occurred and a legal opinion supporting enforceability of the offsetting rights has been obtained. Remaining exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but the Company may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the offsetting right.104(1)Includes financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements that are permitted to be offset under ASC 210-20-45.(2)The total of this column for each period excludes federal funds sold/purchased. See tables above.(3)Includes financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements that are not permitted to be offset under ASC 210-20-45, but would be eligible for offsetting to the extent that an event of default has occurred and a legal opinion supporting enforceability of the offsetting right has been obtained.(4)Remaining exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but the Company may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the offsetting right.The following tables present the gross amount of liabilities associated with repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, by remaining contractual maturity:105The following tables present the gross amount of liabilities associated with repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, by class of underlying collateral:10611. BROKERAGE RECEIVABLES AND BROKERAGEPAYABLESThe Company has receivables and payables for financial instruments sold to and purchased from brokers, dealers and customers, which arise in the ordinary course of business. For additional information on these receivables and payables, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Brokerage receivables and Brokerage payables consisted of the following:(1) Includes brokerage receivables and payables recorded by Citi broker-dealer entities that are accounted for in accordance with the AICPA Accounting Guide for Brokers and Dealers in Securities as codified in ASC 940-320.10712.   INVESTMENTSFor additional information regarding Citi s investment portfolios, including evaluating investments for other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI), see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.OverviewCiti adopted ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2018-03 as of January 1, 2018. The ASUs require fair value changes on marketable equity securities to be recognized in earnings. The available-for-sale category is eliminated for equity securities. Also, non-marketable equity securities are required to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings unless: (i) the measurement alternative is elected or (ii) the investment represents Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank stock or certain exchange seats that continue to be carried at cost. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. The following tables present Citi s investments by category: In millions of dollarsMarch 31, 2018  Debt securities available-for-sale (AFS)$291,523 Debt securities held-to-maturity (HTM)(1)52,492 Marketable equity securities carried at fair value(2)277 Non-marketable equity securities carried at fair value(2)1,292 Non-marketable equity securities measured using the measurement alternative(3)401 Non-marketable equity securities carried at cost(4)5,986 Total investments$351,971 In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2017  Securities available-for-sale (AFS)$290,914 Debt securities held-to-maturity (HTM)(1)53,320 Non-marketable equity securities carried at fair value(2)1,206 Non-marketable equity securities carried at cost(4)6,850 Total investments$352,290(1)Carried at adjusted amortized cost basis, net of any credit-related impairment.(2)Unrealized gains and losses are recognized in earnings.(3)Impairment losses and adjustments to the carrying value as a result of observable price changes are recognized in earnings.(4)    Represents shares issued by the Federal Reserve Bank, Federal Home Loan Banks and various exchanges of which Citigroup is a member.The following table presents interest and dividend income on investments:108The following table presents realized gains and losses on the sales of investments, which excludes OTTI losses: Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Gross realized investment gains$345$288Gross realized investment losses(175)(96)Net realized gains on sale of investments$170$192 Securities Available-for-SaleThe amortized cost and fair value of AFS securities were as follows:(1)The Company invests in mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. These securitizations are generally considered VIEs. The Company s maximum exposure to loss from these VIEs is equal to the carrying amount of the securities, which is reflected in the table above. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations in which the Company has other involvement, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(2)In the second quarter of 2017, Citi early adopted ASU 2017-08, Receivables-Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20): Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities.  Upon adoption, a cumulative effect adjustment was recorded to reduce retained earnings, effective January 1, 2017, for the incremental amortization of purchase premiums and cumulative fair value hedge adjustments on callable state and municipal debt securities.  For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(3)Citi adopted ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2018-03 as of January 1, 2018, resulting in a cumulative effect adjustment from AOCI to retained earnings for net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities AFS. The available for sale category is eliminated for equity securities effective January 1, 2018. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.109The following shows the fair value of AFS securities that have been in an unrealized loss position:(1)Citi adopted ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2018-03 as of January 1, 2018, resulting in a cumulative effect adjustment from AOCI to retained earnings for net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities AFS. The available for sale category is eliminated for equity securities effective January 1, 2018. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.110The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of AFS debt securities by contractual maturity dates:(1)Includes mortgage-backed securities of U.S. government-sponsored agencies.(2)Investments with no stated maturities are included as contractual maturities of greater than 10 years. Actual maturities may differ due to call or prepayment rights.(3)Includes corporate, asset-backed and other debt securities.111Debt Securities Held-to-MaturityThe carrying value and fair value of debt securities HTM were as follows:(1)For debt securities transferred to HTM from Trading account assets, amortized cost basis is defined as the fair value of the securities at the date of transfer plus any accretion income and less any impairments recognized in earnings subsequent to transfer. For debt securities transferred to HTM from AFS, amortized cost is defined as the original purchase cost, adjusted for the cumulative accretion or amortization of any purchase discount or premium, plus or minus any cumulative fair value hedge adjustments, net of accretion or amortization, and less any other-than-temporary impairment recognized in earnings.(2)HTM debt securities are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at amortized cost basis, plus or minus any unamortized unrealized gains and losses and fair value hedge adjustments recognized in AOCI prior to reclassifying the debt securities from AFS to HTM. Changes in the values of these securities are not reported in the financial statements, except for the amortization of any difference between the carrying value at the transfer date and par value of the securities, and the recognition of any non-credit fair value adjustments in AOCI in connection with the recognition of any credit impairment in earnings related to securities the Company continues to intend to hold until maturity.(3)The Company invests in mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. These securitizations are generally considered VIEs. The Company s maximum exposure to loss from these VIEs is equal to the carrying amount of the securities, which is reflected in the table above. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations in which the Company has other involvement, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)In the second quarter of 2017, Citi early adopted ASU 2017-08, Receivables-Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20): Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities.  Upon adoption, a cumulative effect adjustment was recorded to reduce retained earnings, effective January 1, 2017, for the incremental amortization of purchase premiums and cumulative fair value hedge adjustments on callable state and municipal debt securities.  For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.112The table below shows the fair value of debt securities HTM that have been in an unrecognized loss position:Note: Excluded from the gross unrecognized losses presented in the table above are $(71) million and $(117) million of net unrealized losses recorded in AOCI as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, primarily related to the difference between the amortized cost and carrying value of HTM debt securities that were reclassified from AFS. Substantially all of these net unrecognized losses relate to securities that have been in a loss position for 12 months or longer at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.113The following table presents the carrying value and fair value of HTM debt securities by contractual maturity dates:(1)Investments with no stated maturities are included as contractual maturities of greater than 10 years. Actual maturities may differ due to call or prepayment rights.(2)Includes corporate and asset-backed securities.114Evaluating Investments for Other-Than-Temporary ImpairmentOverviewThe Company conducts periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized losses to evaluate whether the impairment is other-than-temporary. This review applies to all securities that are not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. Effective January 1, 2018, the AFS category is eliminated for equity securities and, therefore, other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) review is not required for those securities. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI for AFS securities. Losses related to HTM debt securities generally are not recorded, as these investments are carried at adjusted amortized cost basis. However, for HTM debt securities with credit-related impairment, the credit loss is recognized in earnings as OTTI and any difference between the cost basis adjusted for the OTTI and fair value is recognized in AOCI and amortized as an adjustment of yield over the remaining contractual life of the security. For debt securities transferred to HTM from Trading account assets, amortized cost is defined as the fair value of the securities at the date of transfer, plus any accretion income and less any impairment recognized in earnings subsequent to transfer. For debt securities transferred to HTM from AFS, amortized cost is defined as the original purchase cost, adjusted for the cumulative accretion or amortization of any purchase discount or premium, plus or minus any cumulative fair value hedge adjustments, net of accretion or amortization, and less any impairment recognized in earnings.Regardless of the classification of securities as AFS or HTM, the Company assesses each position with an unrealized loss for OTTI. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include: the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost; the severity of the impairment; the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; activity in the market of the issuer that may indicate adverse credit conditions; and the Company s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.The Company s review for impairment generally entails: identification and evaluation of impaired investments; analysis of individual investments that have fair values less than amortized cost, including consideration of the length of time the investment has been in an unrealized loss position and the expected recovery period; consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that could cause individual  investments to qualify as having other-than-temporary impairment and those that would not support other-than-temporary impairment; and documentation of the results of these analyses, as required under business policies.Debt SecuritiesThe entire difference between amortized cost basis and fair value is recognized in earnings as OTTI for impaired debt securities that the Company has an intent to sell or for which the Company believes it will more-likely-than-not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. However, for those securities that the Company does not intend to sell and is not likely to be required to sell, only the credit-related impairment is recognized in earnings and any non-credit-related impairment is recorded in AOCI.For debt securities, credit impairment exists where management does not expect to receive contractual principal and interest cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of a security.AFS Equity Securities and Equity Method InvestmentsFor AFS equity securities, management considers the various factors described above, including its intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period of time sufficient for recovery to cost or whether it is more-likely-than-not that the Company will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of its cost basis. Where management lacks that intent or ability, the security s decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is recorded in earnings. AFS equity securities deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to fair value, with the full difference between fair value and cost recognized in earnings. Effective January 1, 2018, the AFS category is eliminated for equity securities and, therefore, OTTI review is not required for those securities. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Management assesses equity method investments that have fair values that are less than their respective carrying values for OTTI. Fair value is measured as price multiplied by quantity if the investee has publicly listed securities. If the investee is not publicly listed, other methods are used (see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).For impaired equity method investments that Citi plans to sell prior to recovery of value or would likely be required to sell, with no expectation that the fair value will recover prior to the expected sale date, the full impairment is recognized in earnings as OTTI regardless of severity and duration. The measurement of the OTTI does not include partial projected recoveries subsequent to the balance sheet date.For impaired equity method investments that management does not plan to sell and is not likely to be required to sell prior to recovery of value, the evaluation of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is based on (i) whether and when an equity method investment will recover in value and (ii) whether the investor has the intent and ability to hold that investment for a period of time sufficient to recover the value. The determination of whether the impairment is considered other-than-temporary considers the following indicators, regardless of the time and extent of impairment:115 the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence the operations of the issuer; the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value; and the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the carrying value.The sections below describe the Company s process for identifying credit-related impairments for security types that have the most significant unrealized losses as of March 31, 2018. Mortgage-Backed SecuritiesFor U.S. mortgage-backed securities (and in particular for Alt-A and other mortgage-backed securities that have significant unrealized losses as a percentage of amortized cost), credit impairment is assessed using a cash flow model that estimates the principal and interest cash flows on the underlying mortgages using the security-specific collateral and transaction structure. The model distributes the estimated cash flows to the various tranches of securities, considering the transaction structure and any subordination and credit enhancements that exist in that structure. The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows on the mortgage-backed securities through the current period and then estimates the remaining cash flows using a number of assumptions, including default rates, prepayment rates, recovery rates (on foreclosed properties) and loss severity rates (on non-agency mortgage-backed securities).Management develops specific assumptions using market data, internal estimates and estimates published by rating agencies and other third-party sources. Default rates are projected by considering current underlying mortgage loan  performance, generally assuming the default of (i) 10% of current loans, (ii) 25% of 30 59 day delinquent loans, (iii) 70% of 60 90 day delinquent loans and (iv) 100% of 91+ day delinquent loans. These estimates are extrapolated along a default timing curve to estimate the total lifetime pool default rate. Other assumptions contemplate the actual collateral attributes, including geographic concentrations, rating actions and current market prices.Cash flow projections are developed using different stress test scenarios. Management evaluates the results of those stress tests (including the severity of any cash shortfall indicated and the likelihood of the stress scenarios actually occurring based on the underlying pool s characteristics and performance) to assess whether management expects to recover the amortized cost basis of the security. If cash flow projections indicate that the Company does not expect to recover its amortized cost basis, the Company recognizes the estimated credit loss in earnings.State and Municipal SecuritiesThe process for identifying credit impairments in Citigroup s AFS and HTM state and municipal bonds is primarily based on a credit analysis that incorporates third-party credit ratings.  Citigroup monitors the bond issuers and any insurers providing default protection in the form of financial guarantee insurance.  The average external credit rating, ignoring any insurance, is Aa3/AA-.  In the event of an external rating downgrade or other indicator of credit impairment (i.e., based on instrument-specific estimates of cash flows or probability of issuer default), the subject bond is specifically reviewed for adverse changes in the amount or timing of expected contractual principal and interest payments. For state and municipal bonds with unrealized losses that Citigroup plans to sell, or would be more-likely-than-not required to sell, the full impairment is recognized in earnings.Recognition and Measurement of OTTIThe following tables present total OTTI recognized in earnings:OTTI on Investments Three Months Ended  March 31, 2018In millions of dollarsAFS(1)HTMTotalImpairment losses related to debt securities that the Company does not intend to sell nor will likely be required to sell:   Total OTTI losses recognized during the period$ $ $ Less: portion of impairment loss recognized in AOCI (before taxes)   Net impairment losses recognized in earnings for debt securities that the Company does not intend to sell nor will likely be required to sell$ $ $ Impairment losses recognized in earnings for debt securities that the Company intends to sell, would be more-likely-than-not required to sell or will be subject to an issuer call deemed probable of exercise 27 27Total OTTI losses recognized in earnings$27$ $27(1)For the three months ended March 31, 2018, amounts represent AFS debt securities. Effective January 1, 2018, the AFS category is eliminated for equity securities. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.116OTTI on InvestmentsThree months ended   March 31, 2017In millions of dollarsAFS (1)HTMTotalImpairment losses related to securities that the Company does not intend to sell nor will likely be required to sell:   Total OTTI losses recognized during the period$ $ $ Less: portion of impairment loss recognized in AOCI (before taxes)   Net impairment losses recognized in earnings for securities that the Company does not intend to sell nor will likely be required to sell$ $ $ Impairment losses recognized in earnings for securities that the Company intends to sell, would be more-likely-than-not required to sell or will be subject to an issuer call deemed probable of exercise and FX losses11112Total impairment losses recognized in earnings$11$1$12(1)Includes OTTI on non-marketable equity securities.The following are three-month rollforwards of the credit-related impairments recognized in earnings for AFS and HTM debt securities held that the Company does not intend to sell nor likely will be required to sell: Cumulative OTTI credit losses recognized in earnings on debt securities still heldIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2017 balanceCreditimpairmentsrecognized inearnings onsecurities notpreviouslyimpairedCreditimpairmentsrecognized inearnings onsecurities thathavebeen previouslyimpairedChanges due tocredit-impairedsecurities sold,transferred ormatured(1)March 31, 2018 balanceAFS debt securities     Mortgage-backed securities (2)$38$ $ $(13)$25State and municipal4  (4) Foreign government securities     Corporate4   4All other debt securities2   2Total OTTI credit losses recognized for AFS debt securities$48$ $ $(17)$31HTM debt securities     Mortgage-backed securities(3)$54$ $ $(54)$ State and municipal3  (3) Total OTTI credit losses recognized for HTM debt securities$57$ $ $(57)$ (1)  Includes $18 million in cumulative OTTI reclassified from HTM to AFS due to the transfer of the related debt securities from HTM to AFS. Citi adopted ASU 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedge Activities, on January 1, 2018 and transferred approximately $4 billion of HTM debt securities into AFS classification as permitted as a one-time transfer under the standard.(2)  Primarily consists of Prime securities.(3)  Primarily consists of Alt-A securities.117 Cumulative OTTI credit losses recognized in earnings on debt securities still heldIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2016 balanceCreditimpairmentsrecognized inearnings onsecurities notpreviouslyimpairedCreditimpairmentsrecognized inearnings onsecurities thathavebeen previouslyimpairedReductions due tocredit-impairedsecurities sold,transferred ormaturedMarch 31, 2017 balanceAFS debt securities     Mortgage-backed securities$ $ $ $ $ State and municipal4   4Foreign government securities     Corporate5  (1)4All other debt securities22   22Total OTTI credit losses recognized for AFS debt securities$31$ $ $(1)$30HTM debt securities     Mortgage-backed securities(1)$101$ $ $(4)$97State and municipal3   3Total OTTI credit losses recognized for HTM debt securities$104$ $ $(4)$100(1)Primarily consists of Alt-A securities.Non-Marketable Equity Securities Not Carried at Fair ValueEffective January 1, 2018, non-marketable equity securities are required to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings unless: (i) the measurement alternative is elected or (ii) the investment represents Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank stock or certain exchange seats that continue to be carried at cost. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.The election to measure a non-marketable equity security using the measurement alternative is made on an instrument-by-instrument basis. Under the measurement alternative, an equity security is carried at cost plus or minus changes resulting from observable prices in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, less impairment (if any). The carrying value of the equity security is adjusted to fair value on the date of an observed transaction. Fair value may differ from the observed transaction price due to a number of factors, including marketability adjustments and differences in rights and obligations when the observed transaction is not for the identical investment held by Citi.On a quarterly basis, management qualitatively assesses whether each equity security under the measurement alternative is impaired. Impairment indicators that are considered include, but are not limited to the following:  A significant deterioration in the earnings performance, credit rating, asset quality, or business prospects of the investee A significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environment of the investee A significant adverse change in the general market condition of either the geographical area or the industry in which the investee operates  A bona fide offer to purchase, an offer by the investee to sell, or a completed auction process for the same or similar investment for an amount less than the carrying amount of that investment Factors that raise significant concerns about the investee s ability to continue as a going concern, such as negative cash flows from operations, working capital deficiencies, or noncompliance with statutory capital requirements or debt covenantsWhen the qualitative assessment indicates that impairment exists, the investment is written down to fair value, with the full difference between the fair value of the investment and its carrying amount recognized in earnings.118Below is the carrying value of non-marketable equity securities measured using the measurement alternative at March 31, 2018, and amounts recognized in earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2018:In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended March 31, 2018Measurement alternative, balance at   March 31, 2018$401Measurement alternative impairment losses(1)1Measurement alternative downward changes   for observable prices(1)2Measurement alternative upward changes   for observable prices(1)123(1) See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these nonrecurring fair value measurements. A similar impairment analysis is performed for non-marketable equity securities carried at cost. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no impairment losses recognized in earnings for non-marketable equity securities carried at cost.Investments in Alternative Investment Funds That Calculate Net Asset ValueThe Company holds investments in certain alternative investment funds that calculate net asset value (NAV), or its equivalent, including hedge funds, private equity funds, funds of funds and real estate funds, as provided by third-party asset managers. Investments in such funds are generally classified as non-marketable equity securities carried at fair value. The fair values of these investments are estimated using the NAV of the Company s ownership interest in the funds. Some of these investments are in  covered funds  for purposes of the Volcker Rule, which prohibits certain proprietary investment activities and limits the ownership of, and relationships with, covered funds. On April 21, 2017, Citi s request for extension of the permitted holding period under the Volcker Rule for certain of its investments in illiquid funds was approved, allowing the Company to hold such investments until the earlier of 5 years from the July 21, 2017 expiration date of the general conformance period, or the date such investments mature or are otherwise conformed with the Volcker Rule.(1)Private equity funds include funds that invest in infrastructure, emerging markets and venture capital.(2)With respect to the Company s investments in private equity funds and real estate funds, distributions from each fund will be received as the underlying assets held by these funds are liquidated. It is estimated that the underlying assets of these funds will be liquidated over a period of several years as market conditions allow. Private equity and real estate funds do not allow redemption of investments by their investors. Investors are permitted to sell or transfer their investments, subject to the approval of the general partner or investment manager of these funds, which generally may not be unreasonably withheld.(3)Includes several real estate funds that invest primarily in commercial real estate in the U.S., Europe and Asia.11913.   LOANSCitigroup loans are reported in two categories: consumer and corporate. These categories are classified primarily according to the segment and subsegment that manage the loans. For additional information regarding Citi s consumer and corporate loans, including related accounting policies, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Consumer LoansConsumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by GCB and Corporate/Other. The following table provides Citi s consumer loans by loan type:(1)Loans secured primarily by real estate.During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company sold and/or reclassified to held-for-sale, $0.8 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of consumer loans.  120Consumer Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at March 31, 2018(1)Loans less than 30 days past due are presented as current.(2)Includes $23 million of residential first mortgages recorded at fair value.(3)Excludes loans guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored entities.(4)Consists of residential first mortgages that are guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored entities that are 30 89 days past due of $0.2 billion and 90 days or more past due of $0.8 billion.(5)Includes approximately $0.1 billion of residential first mortgage loans in process of foreclosure.(6)Includes approximately $0.1 billion of home equity loans in process of foreclosure.(7)Fixed-rate home equity loans and loans extended under home equity lines of credit, which are typically in junior lien positions.(8)Represents loans classified as consumer loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheet that are not included in GCB or Corporate/Other consumer credit metrics.121Consumer Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2017(1)Loans less than 30 days past due are presented as current.(2)Includes $25 million of residential first mortgages recorded at fair value.(3)Excludes loans guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored entities.(4)Consists of residential first mortgages that are guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored entities that are 30 89 days past due of $0.2 billion and 90 days or more past due of $1.0 billion.(5)Includes approximately $0.1 billion of residential first mortgage loans in process of foreclosure.(6)Includes approximately $0.1 billion of home equity loans in process of foreclosure.(7)Fixed-rate home equity loans and loans extended under home equity lines of credit, which are typically in junior lien positions.(8)Represents loans classified as consumer loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheet that are not included in GCB or Corporate/Other consumer credit metrics.Consumer Credit Scores (FICO)The following tables provide details on the FICO scores for Citi s U.S. consumer loan portfolio based on end-of-period receivables (commercial banking loans are excluded from the table since they are business based and FICO scores are not a primary driver in their credit evaluation). FICO scores are updated monthly for substantially all of the portfolio or, otherwise, on a quarterly basis for the remaining portfolio. (1)Excludes loans guaranteed by U.S. government entities, loans subject to long-term standby commitments (LTSC) with U.S. government-sponsored entities and loans recorded at fair value.(2)Excludes balances where FICO was not available. Such amounts are not material.122Loan to Value (LTV) RatiosThe following tables provide details on the LTV ratios for Citi s U.S. consumer mortgage portfolios. LTV ratios are updated monthly using the most recent Core Logic Home Price Index data available for substantially all of the portfolio applied at the Metropolitan Statistical Area level, if available, or the state level if not. The remainder of the portfolio is updated in a similar manner using the Federal Housing Finance Agency indices.(1)Excludes loans guaranteed by U.S. government entities, loans subject to LTSCs with U.S. government-sponsored entities and loans recorded at fair value.(2)Excludes balances where LTV was not available. Such amounts are not material.123Impaired Consumer LoansThe following tables present information about impaired consumer loans and interest income recognized on impaired consumer loans:(1)Recorded investment in a loan includes net deferred loan fees and costs, unamortized premium or discount and direct write-downs and includes accrued interest only on credit card loans.(2)$526 million of residential first mortgages, $348 million of home equity loans and $9 million of commercial market loans do not have a specific allowance.(3)    Included in the Allowance for loan losses.(4)    Average carrying value represents the average recorded investment ending balance for the last four quarters and does not include the related specific allowance.(5)    Includes amounts recognized on both an accrual and cash basis.(1)Recorded investment in a loan includes net deferred loan fees and costs, unamortized premium or discount and direct write-downs and includes accrued interest only on credit card loans.(2)$607 million of residential first mortgages, $370 million of home equity loans and $10 million of commercial market loans do not have a specific allowance.(3)Included in the Allowance for loan losses.(4)Average carrying value represents the average recorded investment ending balance for the last four quarters and does not include the related specific allowance.124Consumer Troubled Debt Restructurings At and for the three months ended March 31, 2018In millions of dollars except number of loans modifiedNumber ofloans modifiedPost-modificationrecordedinvestment(1)(2)Deferredprincipal(3)Contingentprincipalforgiveness(4)Principalforgiveness(5)Averageinterest ratereductionNorth America      Residential first mortgages588$89$1$ $  %Home equity loans456412  1Credit cards63,203244   18Installment and other revolving3423   5Commercial banking(6)91    Total(8)64,598$378$3$ $ International      Residential first mortgages549$18$ $ $  %Credit cards23,39494  215Installment and other revolving9,32559  210Commercial banking(6)14528   2Total(8)33,413$199$ $ $4 At and for the three months ended March 31, 2017In millions of dollars except number of loans modifiedNumber ofloans modifiedPost-modificationrecordedinvestment(1)(7)Deferredprincipal(3)Contingentprincipalforgiveness(4)Principalforgiveness(5)Averageinterest ratereductionNorth America      Residential first mortgages966$130$3$ $11%Home equity loans679563  1Credit cards59,337231   17Installment and other revolving2212   5Commercial banking(6)265    Total(8)61,229$424$6$ $1 International      Residential first mortgages613$27$ $ $  %Credit cards25,23785  214Installment and other revolving11,30760  47Commercial banking(6)3213   2Total(8)37,189$185$ $ $6 (1)Post-modification balances include past due amounts that are capitalized at the modification date.(2)Post-modification balances in North America include $11 million of residential first mortgages and $4 million of home equity loans to borrowers who have gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the three months ended March 31, 2018. These amounts include $8 million of residential first mortgages and $3 million of home equity loans that were newly classified as TDRs in the three months ended March 31, 2018, based on previously received OCC guidance.(3)Represents portion of contractual loan principal that is non-interest bearing, but still due from the borrower. Such deferred principal is charged off at the time of permanent modification to the extent that the related loan balance exceeds the underlying collateral value.(4)Represents portion of contractual loan principal that is non-interest bearing and, depending upon borrower performance, eligible for forgiveness.(5)Represents portion of contractual loan principal that was forgiven at the time of permanent modification.(6)    Commercial banking loans are generally borrower-specific modifications and incorporate changes in the amount and/or timing of principal and/or interest.(7)    Post-modification balances in North America include $15 million of residential first mortgages and $6 million of home equity loans to borrowers who have gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the three months ended March 31, 2017. These amounts include $9 million of residential first mortgages and $6 million of home equity loans that were newly classified as TDRs in the three months ended March 31, 2017, based on previously received OCC guidance.(8)    The above tables reflect activity for loans outstanding as of the end of the reporting period that were considered TDRs.125The following table presents consumer TDRs that defaulted for which the payment default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is defined as 60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial banking loans, where default is defined as 90 days past due. Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017North America  Residential first mortgages$44$51Home equity loans109Credit cards5952Installment and other revolving1 Commercial banking82Total$122$114International  Residential first mortgages$2$2Credit cards5342Installment and other revolving2423Commercial banking  Total$79$67Corporate LoansCorporate loans represent loans and leases managed by ICG. The following table presents information by corporate loan type:(1)Loans secured primarily by real estate. The Company sold and/or reclassified to HFS $0.1 billion and $0.5 billion of corporate loans during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company did not have significant purchases of corporate loans classified as held-for-investment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017.126Corporate Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at March 31, 2018 Corporate Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2017(1)Corporate loans that are 90 days past due are generally classified as non-accrual. Corporate loans are considered past due when principal or interest is contractually due but unpaid.(2)Non-accrual loans generally include those loans that are   90 days past due or those loans for which Citi believes, based on actual experience and a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the payment of interest or principal is doubtful.(3)Loans less than 30 days past due are presented as current.(4)Total loans include loans at fair value, which are not included in the various delinquency columns. 127Corporate Loans Credit Quality Indicators (1)Recorded investment in a loan includes net deferred loan fees and costs, unamortized premium or discount, less any direct write-downs.(2)Held-for-investment loans are accounted for on an amortized cost basis. 128Non-Accrual Corporate LoansThe following tables present non-accrual loan information by corporate loan type and interest income recognized on non-accrual corporate loans: March 31, 2018December 31, 2017In millions of dollarsRecordedinvestment(1)Related specificallowanceRecordedinvestment(1)Related specificallowanceNon-accrual corporate loans with valuation allowances    Commercial and industrial$574$227$1,017$368Financial institutions87258841Mortgage and real estate54105111Lease financing434464Other165132Total non-accrual corporate loans with specific allowance$774$271$1,215$426Non-accrual corporate loans without specific allowance    Commercial and industrial$686 $489 Financial institutions  4 Mortgage and real estate138 144 Lease financing    Other70 90 Total non-accrual corporate loans without specific allowance$894N/A$727N/A(1)Recorded investment in a loan includes net deferred loan fees and costs, unamortized premium or discount, less any direct write-downs.(2)Average carrying value represents the average recorded investment balance and does not include related specific allowance.(3)Interest income recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $2 million.N/A Not applicable129Corporate Troubled Debt RestructuringsAt and for the three months ended March 31, 2018:In millions of dollarsCarryingValueTDRsinvolving changesin the amountand/or timing ofprincipal payments(1)TDRsinvolving changesin the amountand/or timing ofinterest payments(2)TDRsinvolving changesin the amountand/or timing ofboth principal andinterest paymentsCommercial and industrial$2$ $ $2Mortgage and real estate1  1Total$3$ $ $3At and for the three months ended March 31, 2017:In millions of dollarsCarryingValueTDRsinvolving changesin the amountand/or timing ofprincipal payments(1)TDRsinvolving changesin the amountand/or timing ofinterest payments(2)TDRsinvolving changesin the amountand/or timing ofboth principal andinterest paymentsCommercial and industrial$55$ $ $55Financial institutions15  15Mortgage and real estate1  1Total$71$ $ $71The following table presents total corporate loans modified in a TDR as well as those TDRs that defaulted and for which the payment default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is defined as 60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial banking loans, where default is defined as 90 days past due.(1)The above tables reflect activity for loans outstanding as of the end of the reporting period that were considered TDRs.13014.   ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period$12,355$12,060Gross credit losses(2,296)(2,144)Gross recoveries(1)429435Net credit losses (NCLs)$(1,867)$(1,709)NCLs$1,867$1,709Net reserve builds (releases)102(20)Net specific reserve releases(166)(14)Total provision for loan losses$1,803$1,675Other, net (see table below)634Allowance for loan losses at end of period$12,354$12,030Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at beginning of period$1,258$1,418Provision (release) for unfunded lending commitments28(43)Other, net42Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at end of period(2)$1,290$1,377Total allowance for loans, leases and unfunded lending commitments$13,644$13,407(1)Recoveries have been reduced by certain collection costs that are incurred only if collection efforts are successful.(2)Represents additional credit loss reserves for unfunded lending commitments and letters of credit recorded in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Other, net detailsThree Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Sales or transfers of various consumer loan portfolios to HFS  Transfer of real estate loan portfolios$(53)$(37)Transfer of other loan portfolios(2)(124)Sales or transfers of various consumer loan portfolios to HFS$(55)$(161)FX translation, consumer118164Other 1Other, net$63$4 Allowance for Credit Losses and Investment in Loans13113215.   GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETSGoodwill impairment testing is performed at the level below each business segment (referred to as a reporting unit). See Note 3 for further information on business segments. For additional information regarding Citi s goodwill impairment testing process, see Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. There were no triggering events identified and no goodwill was impaired during the first quarter of 2018.  GoodwillThe changes in Goodwill were as follows: (1)Goodwill allocated to the sale of Citi Colombia consumer business, the only remaining business in Citi Holdings Consumer Latin America reporting unit reported as part of Corporate/Other, which is classified as HFS beginning the first quarter of 2018.Intangible AssetsThe components of intangible assets were as follows:133The changes in intangible assets were as follows:(1)Primarily reflects contract-related intangibles associated with the American Airlines, The Home Depot, Costco, Sears and AT&T credit card program agreements, which represented 97% of the aggregate net carrying amount at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.(2)For additional information on Citi s MSRs, including the rollforward for the three months ended March 31, 2018, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.13416.   DEBTFor additional information regarding Citi s short-term borrowings and long-term debt, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Short-Term Borrowings(1)Includes borrowings from Federal Home Loan Banks and other market participants. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, collateralized short-term advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks were $15.3 billion and $23.8 billion, respectively. Long-Term Debt(1)Represents the parent holding company.(2)Represents Citibank entities as well as other bank entities. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, collateralized long-term advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks were $15.7 billion and $19.3 billion, respectively.(3)Represents broker-dealer and other non-bank subsidiaries that are consolidated into Citigroup Inc., the parent holding company.Long-term debt outstanding includes trust preferred securities with a balance sheet carrying value of $1.7 billion at both March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.The following table summarizes Citi s outstanding trust preferred securities at March 31, 2018:Note: Distributions on the trust preferred securities and interest on the subordinated debentures are payable semiannually for Citigroup Capital III and Citigroup Capital XVIII and quarterly for Citigroup Capital XIII.(1)Represents the notional value received by investors from the trusts at the time of issuance.(2)In each case, the coupon rate on the subordinated debentures is the same as that on the trust preferred securities. 13517.   CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (AOCI)Changes in each component of Citigroup s Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 (1)Primarily driven by Citigroup s pay fixed/receive floating interest rate swap programs that hedge the floating rates on liabilities.(2)Primarily reflects adjustments based on the quarterly actuarial valuations of the Company s Significant pension and postretirement plans, annual actuarial valuations of all other plans and amortization of amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income. (3)Primarily reflects the movements in (by order of impact) the Mexican Peso, Japanese Yen, Euro, and Chinese Yuan against the U.S. dollar and changes in related tax effects and hedges for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. Primarily reflects the movements in (by order of impact) the Mexican peso, Korean Won, Japanese Yen and Indian Rupee against the U.S. dollar and changes in related tax effects and hedges for the quarter ended March, 31, 2017. (4)Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, changes in the excluded component of fair value hedges are reflected as a component of AOCI, pursuant to the early adoption of ASU No. 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this change.(5)Citi adopted ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2018-03 on January 1, 2018. Upon adoption, a cumulative effect adjustment was recorded from AOCI to retained earnings for net unrealized gains on former AFS equity securities. For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(6)In the second quarter of 2017, Citi early adopted ASU 2017-08, Receivables Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20): Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities.  Upon adoption, a cumulative effect adjustment was recorded to reduce retained earnings, effective January 1, 2017, for the incremental amortization of cumulative fair value hedge adjustments on callable state and municipal debt securities.  For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.136The pretax and after-tax changes in each component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Three Months Ended March 31, 2017(1)Includes the impact of ASU 2018-02, which transferred amounts from AOCI to Retained Earnings. For additional information, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.(2)Citi adopted ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2018-03 on January 1, 2018. Upon adoption, a cumulative effect adjustment was recorded from AOCI to retained earnings for net unrealized gains on former AFS equity securities. For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(3)In the second quarter of 2017, Citi early adopted ASU-2017-08. Upon adoption, a cumulative effect adjustment was recorded to reduce retained earnings, effective January 1, 2017, for the incremental amortization of cumulative fair value hedge adjustments on callable state and municipal debt securities. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.137The Company recognized pretax gain (loss) related to amounts in AOCI reclassified to the Consolidated Statement of Income as follows: Increase (decrease) in AOCI due to amounts reclassified to Consolidated Statement of Income Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Realized (gains) losses on sales of investments$(170)$(192)Gross impairment losses2712Subtotal, pretax$(143)$(180)Tax effect3466Net realized (gains) losses on investments after-tax(1)$(109)$(114)Realized DVA (gains) losses on fair value option liabilities $35$(8)Subtotal, pretax$35$(8)Tax effect(8)3Net realized debt valuation adjustment, after-tax$27$(5)Interest rate contracts$31$(44)Foreign exchange contracts(2)3Subtotal, pretax$29$(41)Tax effect(8)15Amortization of cash flow hedges, after-tax(2)$21$(26)Amortization of unrecognized  Prior service cost (benefit)$(11)$(10)Net actuarial loss6967Curtailment/settlement impact(3)4 Subtotal, pretax$62$57Tax effect(15)(20)Amortization of benefit plans, after-tax(3)$47$37Foreign currency translation adjustment$ $(232)Tax effect 85   Foreign currency translation adjustment $ $(147)Total amounts reclassified out of AOCI, pretax$(17)$(404)Total tax effect3149Total amounts reclassified out of AOCI, after-tax$(14)$(255)(1)The pretax amount is reclassified to Realized gains (losses) on sales of investments, net and Gross impairment losses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.(2)See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.(3)See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.13818. SECURITIZATIONS AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES For additional information regarding Citi s use of special purpose entities (SPEs) and variable interest entities (VIEs), see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Citigroup s involvement with consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs with which the Company holds significant variable interests or has continuing involvement through servicing a majority of the assets in a VIE is presented below:(1)    The definition of maximum exposure to loss is included in the text that follows this table.(2)Included on Citigroup s March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet.(3)A significant unconsolidated VIE is an entity in which the Company has any variable interest or continuing involvement considered to be significant, regardless of the likelihood of loss.(4)Citigroup mortgage securitizations also include agency and non-agency (private-label) re-securitization activities. These SPEs are not consolidated. See  Re-securitizations  below for further discussion.139The previous tables do not include: certain venture capital investments made by some of the Company s private equity subsidiaries, as the Company accounts for these investments in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide (codified in ASC 946); certain investment funds for which the Company provides investment management services and personal estate trusts for which the Company provides administrative, trustee and/or investment management services;  certain VIEs structured by third parties in which the Company holds securities in inventory, as these investments are made on arm s-length terms;  certain positions in mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities held by the Company, which are classified as Trading account assets or Investments, in which the Company has no other involvement with the related securitization entity deemed to be significant (for more information on these positions, see Notes 12 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements);  certain representations and warranties exposures in legacy ICG-sponsored mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations in which the Company has no variable interest or continuing involvement as servicer. The outstanding balance of mortgage loans securitized during 2005 to 2008 in which the Company has no variable interest or continuing involvement as servicer was approximately $8 billion and $9 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively; certain representations and warranties exposures in Citigroup residential mortgage securitizations, where the original mortgage loan balances are no longer outstanding; and VIEs such as trust preferred securities trusts used in connection with the Company s funding activities. The Company does not have a variable interest in these trusts. The asset balances for consolidated VIEs represent the carrying amounts of the assets consolidated by the Company. The carrying amount may represent the amortized cost or the current fair value of the assets depending on the legal form of the asset (e.g., loan or security) and the Company s standard accounting policies for the asset type and line of business.The asset balances for unconsolidated VIEs in which the Company has significant involvement represent the most current information available to the Company. In most cases, the asset balances represent an amortized cost basis without regard to impairments, unless fair value information is readily available to the Company.The maximum funded exposure represents the balance sheet carrying amount of the Company s investment in the VIE. It reflects the initial amount of cash invested in the VIE, adjusted for any accrued interest and cash principal payments received. The carrying amount may also be adjusted for increases or declines in fair value or any impairment in value recognized in earnings. The maximum exposure of unfunded positions represents the remaining undrawn committed amount, including liquidity and credit facilities provided by the Company or the notional amount of a derivative instrument considered to be a variable interest. In certain transactions, the Company has entered into derivative instruments or other arrangements that are not considered variable interests in the VIE (e.g., interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps or where the Company is the purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE). Receivables under such arrangements are not included in the maximum exposure amounts.140Funding Commitments for Significant Unconsolidated VIEs Liquidity Facilities and Loan CommitmentsThe following table presents the notional amount of liquidity facilities and loan commitments that are classified as funding commitments in the VIE tables above:Significant Interests in Unconsolidated VIEs Balance Sheet ClassificationThe following table presents the carrying amounts and classification of significant variable interests in unconsolidated VIEs:Credit Card SecuritizationsSubstantially all of the Company s credit card securitization activity is through two trusts Citibank Credit Card Master Trust (Master Trust) and Citibank Omni Master Trust (Omni  Trust), with the substantial majority through the Master Trust. These trusts are consolidated entities. The following table reflects amounts related to the Company s securitized credit card receivables:In billions of dollarsMarch 31, 2018December 31, 2017Ownership interests in principal amount of trust credit card receivables   Sold to investors via trust-issued securities$28.8$28.8   Retained by Citigroup as trust-issued securities7.77.6   Retained by Citigroup via non-certificated interests10.114.4Total $46.6$50.8The following tables summarize selected cash flow information related to Citigroup s credit card securitizations: Three Months Ended March 31,In billions of dollars20182017Proceeds from new securitizations$2.8$2.5Pay down of maturing notes(2.8)(2.0)Master Trust Liabilities (at Par Value)The weighted average maturity of the third-party term notes issued by the Master Trust was 2.7 years as of March 31, 2018 and 2.6 years as of December 31, 2017. Omni Trust Liabilities (at Par Value)The weighted average maturity of the third-party term notes issued by the Omni Trust was 1.6 years as of March 31, 2018 and 1.9 years as of December 31, 2017.In billions of dollarsMar. 31, 2018Dec. 31, 2017Term notes issued to third parties$1.0$1.0Term notes retained by Citigroup affiliates1.91.9Total Omni Trust liabilities$2.9$2.9141Mortgage SecuritizationsThe following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to Citigroup mortgage securitizations: 20182017In billions of dollarsU.S. agency- sponsored mortgagesNon-agency- sponsored mortgagesU.S. agency- sponsored mortgagesNon-agency- sponsored mortgagesProceeds from new securitizations$8.0$3.4$7.2$1.4Contractual servicing fees received  0.1 During the first quarter of 2018, gains recognized on the securitization of U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages and non-agency sponsored mortgages were $5 million and $18 million, respectively. Agency and non-agency securitizations for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 were $29 million and $20 million, respectively.Key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests at the date of sale or securitization of mortgage receivables were as follows: March 31, 2018  Non-agency-sponsored mortgages(1) U.S. agency- sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interestsDiscount rate3.0% to 11.4%     Weighted average discount rate6.4%  Constant prepayment rate4.2% to 16.0%     Weighted average constant prepayment rate8.5%  Anticipated net credit losses(2)   NM     Weighted average anticipated net credit losses   NM  Weighted average life7.7 to 18.0 years   March 31, 2017  Non-agency-sponsored mortgages(1) U.S. agency- sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interestsDiscount rate2.4% to 19.9%     Weighted average discount rate13.0%  Constant prepayment rate3.8% to 10.5%     Weighted average constant prepayment rate6.2%  Anticipated net credit losses(2)   NM     Weighted average anticipated net credit losses   NM  Weighted average life6.5 to 12.2 years  (1)Disclosure of non-agency-sponsored mortgages as senior and subordinated interests is indicative of the interests  position in the capital structure of the securitization.(2)Anticipated net credit losses represent estimated loss severity associated with defaulted mortgage loans underlying the mortgage securitizations disclosed above. Anticipated net credit losses, in this instance, do not represent total credit losses incurred to date, nor do they represent credit losses expected on retained interests in mortgage securitizations.NMAnticipated net credit losses are not meaningful due to U.S. agency guarantees.142The interests retained by the Company range from highly rated and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or residual interests.The key assumptions used to value retained interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions, are set forth in the tables  below. The negative effect of each change is calculated independently, holding all other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may not be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key assumptions may be less than the sum of the individual effects shown below. March 31, 2018  Non-agency-sponsored mortgages(1) U.S. agency- sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interestsDiscount rate0.8% to 41.3%6.5%4.0% to 11.2%   Weighted average discount rate6.2%6.5%7.3%Constant prepayment rate4.3% to 18.4%8.9%9.1% to 13.1%   Weighted average constant prepayment rate10.3%8.9%10.7%Anticipated net credit losses(2)   NM46.9%35.1% to 52.1%   Weighted average anticipated net credit losses   NM46.9%44.5%Weighted average life0.1 to 27.5 years5.4 years2.1 to 18.3 years(1)Disclosure of non-agency-sponsored mortgages as senior and subordinated interests is indicative of the interests  position in the capital structure of the securitization.(2)Anticipated net credit losses represent estimated loss severity associated with defaulted mortgage loans underlying the mortgage securitizations disclosed above. Anticipated net credit losses, in this instance, do not represent total credit losses incurred to date, nor do they represent credit losses expected on retained interests in mortgage securitizations.NMAnticipated net credit losses are not meaningful due to U.S. agency guarantees.143 March 31, 2018  Non-agency-sponsored mortgages(1)In millions of dollarsU.S. agency- sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests$1,767$245$138Discount rates      Adverse change of 10%$(47)$ $(2)   Adverse change of 20%(91) (4)Constant prepayment rate      Adverse change of 10%(37) (1)   Adverse change of 20%(75) (2)Anticipated net credit losses      Adverse change of 10%NM     Adverse change of 20%NM (1) December 31, 2017  Non-agency-sponsored mortgages(1)In millions of dollarsU.S. agency- sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests$1,634$214$139Discount rates      Adverse change of 10%$(44)$(2)$(3)   Adverse change of 20%(85)(4)(5)Constant prepayment rate      Adverse change of 10%(41)(1)(1)   Adverse change of 20%(84)(1)(2)Anticipated net credit losses      Adverse change of 10%NM(3)    Adverse change of 20%NM(7) (1)Disclosure of non-agency-sponsored mortgages as senior and subordinated interests is indicative of the interests  position in the capital structure of the securitization.NMAnticipated net credit losses are not meaningful due to U.S. agency guarantees.Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs)The fair value of Citi s capitalized MSRs was $587 million and $567 million at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The MSRs correspond to principal loan balances of $64 billion and $71 billion as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The following table summarizes the changes in capitalized MSRs:(1)Represents changes due to customer payments and passage of time.(2)See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on the exit of the U.S. mortgage servicing operations and sale of MSRs in 2017.  The Company receives fees during the course of servicing previously securitized mortgages. The amounts of these fees were as follows:In the Consolidated Statement of Income these fees are primarily classified as Commissions and fees, and changes in MSR fair values are classified as Other revenue.144Re-securitizationsThe Company engages in re-securitization transactions in which debt securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial interests. Citi did not transfer non-agency (private-label) securities to re-securitization entities during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. These securities are backed by either residential or commercial mortgages and are often structured on behalf of clients.As of March 31, 2018, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in private-label re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately $74 million (all related to re-securitization transactions executed prior to 2016), which has been recorded in Trading account assets. Of this amount, substantially all was related to subordinated beneficial interests. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in private-label re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately $79 million (all related to re-securitization transactions executed prior to 2016). Of this amount, substantially all was related to subordinated beneficial interests. The original par value of private-label re-securitization transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was approximately $668 million and $887 million, respectively.The Company also re-securitizes U.S. government-agency guaranteed mortgage-backed (agency) securities. During the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, Citi transferred agency securities with a fair value of approximately $7.0 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively.As of March 31, 2018, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in agency re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately $2.1 billion (including $744 million related to re-securitization transactions executed in 2018) compared to $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2017 (including $854 million related to re-securitization transactions executed in 2017), which is recorded in Trading account assets. The original fair value of agency re-securitization transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was approximately $65.2 billion and $68.3 billion, respectively.As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company did not consolidate any private-label or agency re-securitization entities. Citi-Administered Asset-Backed Commercial Paper ConduitsAt March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the commercial paper conduits administered by Citi had approximately $19.0 billion and $19.3 billion of purchased assets outstanding, respectively, and had incremental funding commitments with clients of approximately $15.2 billion and $14.5 billion, respectively.Substantially all of the funding of the conduits is in the form of short-term commercial paper. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the weighted average remaining lives of the commercial paper issued by the conduits were approximately 43 and 51 days, respectively.The primary credit enhancement provided to the conduit investors is in the form of transaction-specific credit enhancements described above. In addition to the transaction-specific credit enhancements, the conduits, other than the government guaranteed loan conduit, have obtained a letter of credit from the Company, which is equal to at least 8% to 10% of the conduit s assets with a minimum of $200 million. The letters of credit provided by the Company to the conduits total approximately $1.7 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The net result across multi-seller conduits administered by the Company is that, in the event defaulted assets exceed the transaction-specific credit enhancements described above, any losses in each conduit are allocated first to the Company and then the commercial paper investors. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company owned $9.0 billion and $9.3 billion, respectively, of the commercial paper issued by its administered conduits. The Company's investments were not driven by market illiquidity and the Company is not obligated under any agreement to purchase the commercial paper issued by the conduits.Collateralized Loan ObligationsThe following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to Citigroup CLOs: Three Months Ended March 31,In billions of dollars20182017Proceeds from new securitizations$1.4$0.3The key assumptions used to value retained interests in CLOs, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 20%, are set forth in the tables below:145Asset-Based FinancingThe primary types of Citi s asset-based financings, total assets of the unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement, and Citi s maximum exposure to loss are shown below. For Citi to realize the maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would have to default with no recovery from the assets held by the VIE.Municipal Securities Tender Option Bond (TOB) TrustsAt March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, none of the municipal bonds owned by non-customer TOB trusts were subject to a credit guarantee provided by the Company. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, liquidity agreements provided with respect to customer TOB trusts totaled $3.4 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, of which $2.0 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, were offset by reimbursement agreements. For the remaining exposure related to TOB transactions, where the residual owned by the customer was at least 25% of the bond value at the inception of the transaction, no reimbursement agreement was executed. The Company also provides other liquidity agreements or letters of credit to customer-sponsored municipal investment funds, which are not variable interest entities, and municipality-related issuers that totaled $6.2 billion and $6.1 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. These liquidity agreements and letters of credit are offset by reimbursement agreements with various term-out provisions.Client IntermediationThe proceeds from new securitizations related to the Company s client intermediation transactions for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 totaled approximately $0.2 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively.14619.   DERIVATIVES ACTIVITIESAs of January 1, 2018, Citigroup early adopted ASU 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedge Activities. This standard primarily impacts Citi s accounting for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and fair value hedges. Refer to the respective sections below for details.       In the ordinary course of business, Citigroup enters into various types of derivative transactions. All derivatives are  recorded in Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional information regarding Citi s use of and accounting for derivatives, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Information pertaining to Citigroup s derivative activities, based on notional amounts, is presented in the table below. Derivative notional amounts are reference amounts from which contractual payments are derived and do not represent a complete and accurate measure of Citi s exposure to derivative transactions. Rather, Citi s derivative exposure arises primarily from market fluctuations (i.e., market risk), counterparty failure (i.e., credit risk) and/or periods of high volatility or financial stress (i.e., liquidity risk), as well as any market valuation adjustments that may be required on the transactions. Moreover, notional amounts do not reflect the netting of offsetting trades. For example, if Citi enters into a receive-fixed interest rate swap with $100 million notional, and offsets this risk with an identical but opposite pay-fixed position with a different counterparty, $200 million in derivative notionals is reported, although these offsetting positions may result in de minimis overall market risk. Aggregate derivative notional amounts can fluctuate from period to period in the normal course of business based on Citi s market share, levels of client activity and other factors. 147Derivative Notionals(1)The notional amounts presented in this table do not include hedge accounting relationships under ASC 815 where Citigroup is hedging the foreign currency risk of a net investment in a foreign operation by issuing a foreign-currency-denominated debt instrument. The notional amount of such debt was $2 million and $63 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.(2)Credit derivatives are arrangements designed to allow one party (protection buyer) to transfer the credit risk of a  reference asset  to another party (protection seller). These arrangements allow a protection seller to assume the credit risk associated with the reference asset without directly purchasing that asset. The Company enters into credit derivative positions for purposes such as risk management, yield enhancement, reduction of credit concentrations and diversification of overall risk.148The following tables present the gross and net fair values of the Company s derivative transactions and the related offsetting amounts as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Gross positive fair values are offset against gross negative fair values by counterparty, pursuant to enforceable master netting agreements. Under ASC 815-10-45, payables and receivables in respect of cash collateral received from or paid to a given counterparty pursuant to a credit support annex are included in the offsetting amount, if a legal opinion supporting the enforceability of netting and collateral rights has been obtained. GAAP does not permit similar offsetting for security collateral.In addition, the following tables reflect rule changes adopted by clearing organizations that require or allow entities to elect to treat derivative assets, liabilities and the related variation margin as settlement of the related derivative fair values for legal and accounting purposes, as opposed to presenting gross derivative assets and liabilities that are subject to collateral, whereby the counterparties would record a related collateral payable or receivable.  As a result, the table reflects a reduction of approximately $110 billion and $100 billion as of  March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of derivative assets and derivative liabilities that previously would have been reported on a gross basis, but are now settled and not subject to collateral. The tables also present amounts that are not permitted to be offset, such as security collateral or cash collateral posted at third-party custodians, but which would be eligible for offsetting to the extent that an event of default occurred and a legal opinion supporting enforceability of the netting and collateral rights has been obtained.149Derivative Mark-to-Market (MTM) Receivables/Payables(1)The trading derivatives fair values are also presented in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2)Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are derivatives executed and settled bilaterally with counterparties without the use of an organized exchange or central clearing house. Cleared derivatives include derivatives executed bilaterally with a counterparty in the OTC market, but then novated to a central clearing house, whereby the central clearing house becomes the counterparty to both of the original counterparties. Exchange traded derivatives include derivatives executed directly on an organized exchange that provides pre-trade price transparency.(3)Reflects the net amount of the $42,476 million and $55,922 million of gross cash collateral paid and received, respectively. Of the gross cash collateral paid, $33,800 million was used to offset trading derivative liabilities and, of the gross cash collateral received, $40,951 million was used to offset trading derivative assets.(4)Represents the netting of derivative receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty under enforceable netting agreements. Approximately $163 billion, $129 billion and $11 billion of the netting against trading account asset/liability balances is attributable to each of the OTC, cleared and exchange-traded derivatives, respectively.(5)Represents the netting of cash collateral paid and received by counterparty under enforceable credit support agreements. Substantially all cash collateral received and paid is netted against OTC derivative assets and liabilities, respectively.150(6)The net receivables/payables include approximately $5 billion of derivative asset and $7 billion of derivative liability fair values not subject to enforceable master netting agreements, respectively.(1)The trading derivatives fair values are presented in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Derivative mark-to-market receivables/payables previously reported within Other assets/Other liabilities have been reclassified to Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities to conform with the current period presentation.(2)Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are derivatives executed and settled bilaterally with counterparties without the use of an organized exchange or central clearing house. Cleared derivatives include derivatives executed bilaterally with a counterparty in the OTC market, but then novated to a central clearing house, whereby the central clearing house becomes the counterparty to both of the original counterparties. Exchange traded derivatives include derivatives executed directly on an organized exchange that provides pre-trade price transparency.(3)Reflects the net amount of the $43,207 million and $52,840 million of gross cash collateral paid and received, respectively. Of the gross cash collateral paid, $35,666 million was used to offset trading derivative liabilities and, of the gross cash collateral received, $38,532 million was used to offset trading derivative assets.(4)Represents the netting of derivative receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty under enforceable netting agreements. Approximately $283 billion, $14 billion and $9 billion of the netting against trading account asset/liability balances is attributable to each of the OTC, cleared and exchange-traded derivatives, respectively.151(5)Represents the netting of cash collateral paid and received by counterparty under enforceable credit support agreements. Substantially all cash collateral received and paid is netted against OTC derivative assets and liabilities, respectively.(6)The net receivables/payables include approximately $6 billion of derivative asset and $8 billion of derivative liability fair values not subject to enforceable master netting agreements, respectively.For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the amounts recognized in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income related to derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging relationship, as well as the underlying non-derivative instruments, are presented in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Citigroup presents this disclosure by business classification, showing derivative gains and losses related to its trading activities together with gains and losses related to non-derivative instruments within the same trading portfolios, as this represents how these portfolios are risk managed.The amounts recognized in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income related to derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging relationship are shown below. The table below does not include any offsetting gains/losses on the economically hedged items to the extent such amounts are also recorded in Other revenue.152Fair Value HedgeHedging of Benchmark Interest Rate RiskCitigroup s fair value hedges are primarily hedges of fixed-rate long-term debt or assets, such as available-for-sale securities or loans.       For qualifying fair value hedges of interest rate risk, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, either total cash flows or benchmark only cash flows are presented within Interest revenue or Interest expense based on whether the hedged item is an asset or a liability. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2017-12, the fair value of the derivative was presented in Other revenue or Principal transactions and the difference between the changes in the hedged item and the derivative was defined as ineffectiveness. Hedging of Foreign Exchange RiskCitigroup hedges the change in fair value attributable to foreign exchange rate movements in available-for-sale securities and long-term debt that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding the securities or issuing the debt, which may be within or outside the U.S. The hedging instrument may be a forward foreign exchange contract or a cross currency swap contract. Citigroup considers the premium associated with forward contracts (i.e., the differential between the spot and contractual forward rates) as the cost of hedging; this amount is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and reflected directly in earnings over the life of the hedge. Beginning January 1, 2018, Citi excludes changes in cross-currency basis associated with cross-currency swaps from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and records it in Other-comprehensive-income. Hedging of Commodity Price RiskCitigroup hedges the change in fair value attributable to spot price movements in physical commodities inventory. The hedging instrument is a futures contract to sell the underlying commodity. In this hedge, the change in the value of the hedged inventory is reflected in earnings, which offsets the change in the fair value of the futures contract that is also reflected in earnings. Although the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument recorded in earnings includes changes in forward rates, Citigroup excludes the differential between the spot and the contractual forward rates under the futures contract from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and amortizes directly into earnings over the life of the hedge.153The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Company s fair value hedges: Gains (losses) on fair value hedges(1) Three Months Ended March 31, 20182017(3)In millions of dollarsOther RevenueNet interest revenueOther RevenueGain (loss) on the derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges   Interest rate hedges$ $878$(305)Foreign exchange hedges179 (82)Commodity hedges(2) 2Total gain (loss) on the derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges$177$878$(385)Gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges   Interest rate hedges$ $(866)$296Foreign exchange hedges(249) 196Commodity hedges1 (1)Total gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges$(248)$(866)$491Net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges   Interest rate hedges$ $ $1Foreign exchange hedges(2)23 52Commodity hedges1 1Total net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges$24$ $54(1)Beginning January 1, 2018, gain (loss) amounts for interest rate risk hedges are included in Interest income/expense while the remaining amounts including the amounts for interest rate hedges prior to January 1, 2018 are included in Other revenue or Principal transactions on the Consolidated Statement of Income. The accrued interest income on fair value hedges both prior to and after January 1, 2018 is recorded in Net interest revenue and is excluded from this table.(2)Amounts relate to the premium associated with forward contracts (differential between spot and contractual forward rates). These amounts are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are reflected directly in earnings. After January 1, 2018, amounts include cross-currency basis which is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. The amount of cross currency basis that was included in accumulated other comprehensive income was $5 million, none of which was recognized in earnings.(3)Hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $(10) million for interest rate hedges and $62 million for foreign exchange hedges, for a total of $52 million.Cumulative Basis AdjustmentUpon electing to apply ASC 815 fair value hedge accounting, the carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted to reflect the cumulative impact of changes in the hedged risk. The hedge basis adjustment, whether arising from an active or de-designated hedge relationship, remains with the hedged item until the hedged item is de-recognized from the balance sheet. The table below presents the carrying amount of Citi s hedged assets and liabilities under qualifying fair value hedges at March 31, 2018, along with the cumulative hedge basis adjustments included within the carrying value of those hedged assets and liabilities. In millions of dollarsBalance sheet line item in which hedged item is recordedCarrying amount of hedged asset/ liabilityCumulative fair value hedging adjustment included in the carrying amountActiveDe-DesignatedLong-term debt$139,786$(24)$1,921Investments available for sale73,71725969154Cash Flow HedgesCitigroup hedges the variability of forecasted cash flows associated with floating-rate assets/liabilities and other forecasted transactions. Variable cash flows from those liabilities are synthetically converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps and receive-variable, pay-fixed forward-starting interest rate swaps. Variable cash flows associated with certain assets are synthetically converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. These cash flow hedging relationships use either regression analysis or dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess whether the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2017-12, Citigroup designated the risk being hedged as the risk of overall variability in the hedged cash flows for certain items. With the adoption of ASU 2017-12, Citigroup hedges the variability from changes in a contractually specified rate and recognizes the entire change in fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments in AOCI. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2017-12, to the extent these derivatives were not fully effective, changes in their fair values in excess of changes in the value of the hedged transactions were immediately included in Other revenue. The adoption of ASU 2017-12 no longer requires such amounts to be immediately recognized in income, but instead requires the full change in the value of the hedging instrument to be recognized in AOCI, and then recognized in earnings in the same period that the cash flows impact earnings. The pretax change in AOCI from cash flow hedges is presented below: Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Amount of gain (loss) recognized in AOCI on derivative  Interest rate contracts(1)$(322)$41Foreign exchange contracts6  Total gain (loss) recognized in AOCI$(316)$41Amount of gain (loss) reclassified from AOCI to earningsOther revenueNet interest revenue Interest rate contracts(1)$ $(31)$44Foreign exchange contracts2 (3)Total gain (loss) reclassified from AOCI into earnings$2$(31)$41(1)After January 1, 2018, all amounts reclassified into earnings for interest rate contracts are included in Interest income Interest expense. For all other hedges, including interest rate hedges prior to January 1, 2018, the amounts reclassified to earnings are included primarily in Other revenue and Net interest revenue on the Consolidated Income Statement.For cash flow hedges, the changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative remain in AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and will be included in the earnings of future periods to offset the variability of the hedged cash flows when such cash flows affect earnings. The net gain (loss) associated with cash flow hedges expected to be reclassified from AOCI within 12 months of March 31, 2018 is approximately $142 million. The maximum length of time over which forecasted cash flows are hedged is 10 years.       The after-tax impact of cash flow hedges on AOCI is shown in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.155Net Investment HedgesThe pretax gain (loss) recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account within AOCI, related to net investment hedges, is $(491) million and $(1,716) million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. Credit DerivativesThe following tables summarize the key characteristics of Citi s credit derivatives portfolio by counterparty and derivative form:(1)The fair value amount receivable is composed of $3,016 million under protection purchased and $16,011 million under protection sold.(2)The fair value amount payable is composed of $16,793 million under protection purchased and $2,816 million under protection sold.156(1)The fair value amount receivable is composed of $3,195 million under protection purchased and $17,339 under protection sold.(2)The fair value amount payable is composed of $3,147 million under protection purchased and $18,386 million under protection sold.Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features in DerivativesCertain derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company to either post additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances upon the occurrence of a specified event related to the credit risk of the Company. These events, which are defined by the existing derivative contracts, are primarily downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company and its affiliates.The fair value (excluding CVA) of all derivative instruments with credit risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position at both March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $29 billion. The Company posted $26 billion and $28 billion as collateral for this exposure in the normal course of business as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.A downgrade could trigger additional collateral or cash settlement requirements for the Company and certain affiliates. In the event that Citigroup and Citibank were downgraded a single notch by all three major rating agencies as of March 31, 2018, the Company could be required to post an additional $0.7 billion as either collateral or settlement of the derivative transactions. Additionally, the Company could be required to segregate with third-party custodians collateral previously received from existing derivative counterparties in the amount of $0.2 billion upon the single notch downgrade, resulting in aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately $0.9 billion. Derivatives Accompanied by Financial Asset TransfersFor transfers of financial assets accounted for as a sale by the Company and the Company has retained substantially all of the economic exposure to the transferred asset through a total return swap executed with the same counterparty in contemplation of the initial sale (and still outstanding) both the asset amounts derecognized and the gross cash proceeds received as of the date of derecognition were $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.At March 31, 2018, the fair value of these previously derecognized assets was $3.4 billion. The fair value of the total return swaps as of March 31, 2018 was $79 million  recorded as gross derivative assets and $52 million recorded as gross derivative liabilities. At December 31, 2017, the fair value of these previously derecognized assets was $3.1 billion and the fair value of the total return swaps was $89 million, recorded as gross derivative assets, and $15 million recorded as gross derivative liabilities.The balances for the total return swaps are on a gross basis, before the application of counterparty and cash collateral netting, and are included primarily as equity derivatives in the tabular disclosures in this Note.15720.   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTFor additional information regarding fair value measurement at Citi, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Market Valuation AdjustmentsThe table below summarizes the credit valuation adjustments (CVA) and funding valuation adjustments (FVA) applied to the fair value of derivative instruments at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017:(1) FVA is included with CVA for presentation purposes.The table below summarizes pretax gains (losses) related to changes in CVA on derivative instruments, net of hedges, FVA on derivatives and debt valuation adjustments (DVA) on Citi s own fair value option (FVO) liabilities for the periods indicated: Credit/funding/debt valuationadjustments gain (loss) Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Counterparty CVA$23$90Asset FVA992Own-credit CVA75(72)Liability FVA(7)(10)Total CVA derivative instruments$100$100DVA related to own FVO liabilities (1)$167$(95)Total CVA and DVA(2)$267$5(1)See Note 1 and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2)FVA is included with CVA for presentation purposes.158Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisThe following tables present for each of the fair value hierarchy levels the Company s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The Company may hedge positions that have been classified in the Level 3 category with other financial instruments (hedging instruments) that may be  classified as Level 3, but also with financial instruments classified as Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The effects of these hedges are presented gross in the following tables:Fair Value LevelsTable continues on the next page.159(1)For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company transferred assets of approximately $0.7 billion from Level 1 to Level 2, primarily related to foreign government securities and equity securities not traded in active markets. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company transferred assets of approximately $4.0 billion from Level 2 to Level 1, primarily related to foreign government bonds, foreign corporate securities, and equity securities traded with sufficient frequency to constitute an active market. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no material transfers of liabilities from Level 1 to Level 2. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company transferred liabilities of approximately $0.2 billion, from Level 2 to Level 1.(2)Represents netting of (i) the amounts due under securities purchased under agreements to resell and the amounts owed under securities sold under agreements to repurchase and (ii) derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement and cash collateral offsetting.(3)Includes positions related to investments in unallocated precious metals, as discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also includes physical commodities accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value and unfunded credit products.(4)Reflects the net amount of $42,476 million gross cash collateral paid, of which $33,800 million was used to offset trading derivative liabilities.(5)Amounts exclude $0.4 billion of investments measured at Net Asset Value (NAV) in accordance with ASU 2015-07, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent).(6)Because the amount of the cash collateral paid/received has not been allocated to the Level 1, 2 and 3 subtotals, these percentages are calculated based on total assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding the cash collateral paid/received on derivatives.(7)Reflects the net amount $55,922 million of gross cash collateral received, of which $40,951 million was used to offset trading derivative assets.160Fair Value LevelsTable continues on the next page. 161(1)In 2017, the Company transferred assets of approximately $4.8 billion from Level 1 to Level 2, primarily related to foreign government securities and equity securities not traded in active markets. In 2017, the Company transferred assets of approximately $4.0 billion from Level 2 to Level 1, primarily related to foreign government bonds and equity securities traded with sufficient frequency to constitute a liquid market. In 2017, the Company transferred liabilities of approximately $0.4 billion from Level 1 to Level 2, respectively. In 2017, the Company transferred liabilities of approximately $0.3 billion from Level 2 to Level 1.(2)Represents netting of (i) the amounts due under securities purchased under agreements to resell and the amounts owed under securities sold under agreements to repurchase and (ii) derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement and cash collateral offsetting.(3)Includes positions related to investments in unallocated precious metals, as discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also includes physical commodities accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value and unfunded credit products.(4)Reflects the net amount of $43,207 million of gross cash collateral paid, of which $35,666 million was used to offset trading derivative liabilities.(5)Amounts exclude $0.4 billion of investments measured at Net Asset Value (NAV) in accordance with ASU No. 2015-07, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent).(6)Because the amount of the cash collateral paid/received has not been allocated to the Level 1, 2 and 3 subtotals, these percentages are calculated based on total assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding the cash collateral paid/received on derivatives.(7)Reflects the net amount of $52,840 million of gross cash collateral received, of which $38,532 million was used to offset trading derivative assets.162Changes in Level 3 Fair Value CategoryThe following tables present the changes in the Level 3 fair value category for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The gains and losses presented below include changes in the fair value related to both observable and unobservable inputs.The Company often hedges positions with offsetting positions that are classified in a different level. For example, the gains and losses for assets and liabilities in the Level 3  category presented in the tables below do not reflect the effect of offsetting losses and gains on hedging instruments that may be classified in the Level 1 or Level 2 categories. In addition, the Company hedges items classified in the Level 3 category with instruments also classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The hedged items and related hedges are presented gross in the following tables:Level 3 Fair Value RollforwardTable continues on the next page.163(1)Changes in fair value for available-for-sale debt securities are recorded in AOCI, unless related to other-than-temporary impairment, while gains and losses from sales are recorded in Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (2)Unrealized gains (losses) on MSRs are recorded in Other revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Income.(3)Represents the amount of total gains or losses for the period, included in earnings (and AOCI for changes in fair value of available-for-sale debt securities), attributable to the change in fair value relating to assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 that are still held at March 31, 2018.(4)Total Level 3 trading derivative assets and liabilities have been netted in these tables for presentation purposes only.164165(1)Changes in fair value for available-for-sale debt securities are recorded in AOCI, unless related to other-than-temporary impairment, while gains and losses from sales are recorded in Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (2)Unrealized gains (losses) on MSRs are recorded in Other revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Income.(3)Represents the amount of total gains or losses for the period, included in earnings (and AOCI for changes in fair value of available-for-sale debt securities), attributable to the change in fair value relating to assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 that are still held at December 31, 2017.(4)Total Level 3 trading derivative assets and liabilities have been netted in these tables for presentation purposes only.Level 3 Fair Value RollforwardThe following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period December 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018: Transfers of Long-term debt of $0.9 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and of $0.8 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, mainly related to structured debt, reflecting changes in the significance of unobservable inputs as well as certain underlying market inputs becoming less or more observable.The were no significant Level 3 transfers for the period from December 31, 2016 to March 31, 2017.166Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Fair Value MeasurementsThe following tables present the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 inventory and the most significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements. Differences between this table and amounts presented in the Level 3 Fair Value Rollforward table represent individually immaterial items that have been measured using a variety of valuation techniques other than those listed. 167168(1)The fair value amounts presented in these tables represent the primary valuation technique or techniques for each class of assets or liabilities.(2)Some inputs are shown as zero due to rounding.(3)When the low and high inputs are the same, there is either a constant input applied to all positions, or the methodology involving the input applies to only one large position.(4)Weighted averages are calculated based on the fair values of the instruments.(5)For equity securities, the price inputs are expressed on an absolute basis, not as a percentage of the notional amount.(6)Both trading and nontrading account derivatives assets and liabilities are presented on a gross absolute value basis.(7)Includes hybrid products.169Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring BasisCertain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and therefore are not included in the tables above. These include assets measured at cost that have been written down to fair value during the periods as a result of an impairment. These also include non-marketable equity investments that have been measured using the measurement alternative and are either (i) written down to fair value during the periods as a result of an impairment or (ii) adjusted upward or downward to fair value as a result of a transaction observed during the periods for the identical or similar investment of the same issuer. In addition, these assets include loans held-for-sale and other real estate owned that are measured at the lower of cost or market value.The following table presents the carrying amounts of all assets that were still held for which a nonrecurring fair value measurement was recorded:(1)Net of fair value amounts on the unfunded portion of loans HFS recognized as Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.(2)Represents impaired loans held for investment whose carrying amount is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell, primarily real estate.170Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Nonrecurring Fair Value MeasurementsThe following table presents the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurements and the most significant unobservable inputs used in those measurements:(1)The fair value amounts presented in this table represent the primary valuation technique or techniques for each class of assets or liabilities.(2)Some inputs are shown as zero due to rounding.(3)Weighted averages are calculated based on the fair values of the instruments.(4)Appraised values are disclosed in whole dollars.(5)Represents impaired loans held for investment whose carrying amounts are based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, primarily real estate secured loans.(6)Includes estimated costs to sell.Nonrecurring Fair Value ChangesThe following table presents total nonrecurring fair value measurements for the period, included in earnings, attributable to the change in fair value relating to assets that were still held: Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars2018Loans HFS$(35)Other real estate owned(3)Loans(1)(32)Non-marketable equity investments measured using the measurement alternative120Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)$50(1)Represents loans held for investment whose carrying amount is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, primarily real estate.  Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars2017Loans HFS$(22)Other real estate owned(2)Loans(1)(28)Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)$(52)(1)Represents loans held for investment whose carrying amount is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, primarily real estate.171Estimated Fair Value of Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair ValueThe following table presents the carrying value and fair value of Citigroup s financial instruments that are not carried at fair value. The table below therefore excludes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis presented in the tables above. (1)The carrying value of loans is net of the Allowance for loan losses of $12.4 billion for March 31, 2018 and $12.4 billion for December 31, 2017. In addition, the carrying values exclude $1.7 billion and $1.7 billion of lease finance receivables at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.(2)Includes items measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.(3)Includes cash and due from banks, deposits with banks, brokerage receivables, reinsurance recoverables and other financial instruments included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, for all of which the carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value.(4)The carrying value includes long-term debt balances under qualifying fair value hedges.(5)Includes brokerage payables, separate and variable accounts, short-term borrowings (carried at cost) and other financial instruments included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, for all of which the carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value.The estimated fair values of the Company s corporate unfunded lending commitments at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were liabilities of $4.3 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, substantially all of which are classified as Level 3. The Company does not estimate the fair values of consumer unfunded lending commitments, which are generally cancellable by providing notice to the borrower.17221.   FAIR VALUE ELECTIONSThe Company may elect to report most financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument basis with changes in fair value reported in earnings, other than DVA (see below). The election is made upon the initial recognition of an eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm commitment or when certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair value election may not be revoked once an election is made. The changes in  fair value are recorded in current earnings, other than DVA, which from January 1, 2016 is reported in AOCI.  Additional discussion regarding the applicable areas in which fair value elections were made is presented in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial StatementsThe Company has elected fair value accounting for its mortgage servicing rights. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions regarding the accounting and reporting of MSRs.The following table presents the changes in fair value of those items for which the fair value option has been elected: Changes in fair value gains (losses) Three Months Ended March 31,In millions of dollars20182017Assets  Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell$(16)$(33)Trading account assets(16)430Investments  Loans  Certain corporate loans(123)24Certain consumer loans  Total loans$(123)$24Other assets  MSRs$46$67Certain mortgage loans held-for-sale(1)237Total other assets$48$104Total assets$(107)$525Liabilities  Interest-bearing deposits$28$(14)Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase(111)613Trading account liabilities(6)26Short-term borrowings17719Long-term debt618(332)Total liabilities$706$312(1)Includes gains (losses) associated with interest rate lock commitments for those loans that have been originated and elected under the fair value option.173Own Debt Valuation Adjustments (DVA)Own debt valuation adjustments are recognized on Citi s liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected using Citi s credit spreads observed in the bond market. Effective January 1, 2016, changes in fair value of fair value option liabilities related to changes in Citigroup s own credit spreads (DVA) are reflected as a component of AOCI; previously these amounts were recognized in Citigroup s Revenues and Net income along with all other changes in fair value. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Among other variables, the fair value of liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected (other than non-recourse and similar liabilities) is impacted by the narrowing or widening of the Company s credit spreads. The estimated change in the fair value of these liabilities due to such changes in the Company s own credit spread (or instrument-specific credit risk) was a gain of $167 million and a loss of $95 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Changes in fair value resulting from changes in instrument-specific credit risk were estimated by incorporating the Company s current credit spreads observable in the bond market into the relevant valuation technique used to value each liability as described above. The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial LiabilitiesSelected Portfolios of Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell, Securities Borrowed, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase, Securities Loaned and Certain Non-Collateralized Short-Term BorrowingsThe Company elected the fair value option for certain portfolios of fixed income securities purchased under agreements to resell and fixed income securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities borrowed, securities loaned and certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings held primarily by broker-dealer entities in the United States, United Kingdom and Japan. In each case, the election was made because the related interest rate risk is managed on a portfolio basis, primarily with offsetting derivative instruments that are accounted for at fair value through earnings.  Changes in fair value for transactions in these portfolios are recorded in Principal transactions. The related interest revenue and interest expense are measured based on the contractual rates specified in the transactions and are reported as Interest revenue and Interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.Certain Loans and Other Credit ProductsCitigroup has also elected the fair value option for certain other originated and purchased loans, including certain unfunded loan products, such as guarantees and letters of credit, executed by Citigroup s lending and trading businesses. None of these credit products are highly leveraged financing commitments. Significant groups of transactions include loans and unfunded loan products that are expected to be either sold or securitized in the near term, or transactions where the economic risks are hedged with derivative instruments, such as purchased credit default swaps or total return swaps where the Company pays the total return on the underlying loans to a third party. Citigroup has elected the fair value option to mitigate accounting mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is complex and to achieve operational simplifications. Fair value was not elected for most lending transactions across the Company.The following table provides information about certain credit products carried at fair value: March 31, 2018December 31, 2017In millions of dollarsTrading assetsLoansTrading assetsLoansCarrying amount reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet$9,194$4,536$8,851$4,374Aggregate unpaid principal balance in excess of (less than) fair value475870623682Balance of non-accrual loans or loans more than 90 days past due 1 1Aggregate unpaid principal balance in excess of fair value for non-accrual loans or loans more than 90 days past due   1174In addition to the amounts reported above, $408 million and $508 million of unfunded commitments related to certain credit products selected for fair value accounting were outstanding as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.Changes in the fair value of funded and unfunded credit products are classified in Principal transactions in Citi s Consolidated Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue on Trading account assets or loan interest depending on the balance sheet classifications of the credit products. The changes in fair value for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 due to instrument-specific credit risk totaled to gains of $19 million and $26 million, respectively.Certain Investments in Unallocated Precious MetalsCitigroup invests in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, silver, platinum and palladium) as part of its commodity and foreign currency trading activities or to economically hedge certain exposures from issuing structured liabilities. Under ASC 815, the investment is bifurcated into a debt host contract and a commodity forward derivative instrument. Citigroup elects the fair value option for the debt host contract, and reports the debt host contract within Trading account assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The total carrying amount of debt host contracts across unallocated precious metals accounts was approximately $0.7 billion and $0.9 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The amounts are expected to fluctuate based on trading activity in future periods.As part of its commodity and foreign currency trading activities, Citi trades unallocated precious metals investments and executes forward purchase and forward sale derivative contracts with trading counterparties. When Citi sells an unallocated precious metals investment, Citi s receivable from its depository bank is repaid and Citi derecognizes its investment in the unallocated precious metal. The forward purchase or sale contract with the trading counterparty indexed to unallocated precious metals is accounted for as a derivative, at fair value through earnings. As of March 31, 2018, there were approximately $12.0 billion and $10.1 billion notional amounts of such forward purchase and forward sale derivative contracts outstanding, respectively. Certain Investments in Private Equity and Real Estate Ventures and Certain Equity Method and Other InvestmentsCitigroup invests in private equity and real estate ventures for the purpose of earning investment returns and for capital appreciation. The Company has elected the fair value option for certain of these ventures, because such investments are considered similar to many private equity or hedge fund activities in Citi s investment companies, which are reported at fair value. The fair value option brings consistency in the accounting and evaluation of these investments. All investments (debt and equity) in such private equity and real estate entities are accounted for at fair value. These investments are classified as Investments on Citigroup s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Changes in the fair values of these investments are classified in Other revenue in the Company s Consolidated Statement of Income.Citigroup also elected the fair value option for certain non-marketable equity securities, whose risk is managed with derivative instruments that are accounted for at fair value through earnings. These securities are classified as Trading account assets on Citigroup s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes in the fair value of these securities and the related derivative instruments are recorded in Principal transactions. Effective January 1, 2018, under ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2018-03, a fair value option election is no longer required to measure these non-marketable equity securities at fair value through earnings. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Certain Mortgage Loans Held-for-Sale (HFS)Citigroup has elected the fair value option for certain purchased and originated prime fixed-rate and conforming adjustable-rate first mortgage loans HFS. These loans are intended for sale or securitization and are hedged with derivative instruments. The Company has elected the fair value option to mitigate accounting mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is complex and to achieve operational simplifications.The following table provides information about certain mortgage loans HFS carried at fair value:In millions of dollarsMarch 31, 2018December 31, 2017Carrying amount reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet$333$426Aggregate fair value in excess of (less than) unpaid principal balance714Balance of non-accrual loans or loans more than 90 days past due  Aggregate unpaid principal balance in excess of fair value for non-accrual loans or loans more than 90 days past due  175The changes in the fair values of these mortgage loans are reported in Other revenue in the Company s Consolidated Statement of Income. There was no net change in fair value during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 due to instrument-specific credit risk. Related interest income continues to be measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Certain Structured LiabilitiesThe Company has elected the fair value option for certain structured liabilities whose performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation, currency, equity, referenced credit or commodity risks. The Company elected the fair value option because these exposures are considered to be trading-related positions and, therefore, are managed on a fair value basis. These positions will continue to be classified as debt, deposits or derivatives (Trading account liabilities) on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet according to their legal form.The following table provides information about the carrying value of structured notes, disaggregated by type of embedded derivative instrument:Prior to 2016, the total change in the fair value of these structured liabilities was reported in Principal transactions in the Company s Consolidated Statement of Income. Beginning in the first quarter of 2016, the portion of the changes in fair value attributable to changes in Citigroup s own credit spreads (DVA) is reflected as a component of AOCI while all other changes in fair value will continue to be reported in Principal transactions. Changes in the fair value of these structured liabilities include accrued interest, which is also included in the change in fair value reported in Principal transactions. Certain Non-Structured LiabilitiesThe Company has elected the fair value option for certain non-structured liabilities with fixed and floating interest rates. The Company has elected the fair value option where the interest rate risk of such liabilities may be economically hedged with derivative contracts or the proceeds are used to purchase financial assets that will also be accounted for at fair value through earnings. The elections have been made to mitigate accounting mismatches and to achieve operational simplifications. These positions are reported in Short-term borrowings and Long-term debt on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Prior to 2016, the total change in the fair value of these non-structured liabilities was reported in Principal transactions in the Company s Consolidated Statement of Income. Beginning in the first quarter of 2016, the portion of the changes in fair value attributable to changes in Citigroup s own credit spreads (DVA) is reflected as a component of AOCI while all other changes in fair value will continue to be reported in Principal transactions. Interest expense on non-structured liabilities is measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as Interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.The following table provides information about long-term debt carried at fair value:In millions of dollarsMarch 31, 2018December 31, 2017Carrying amount reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet$33,571$31,392Aggregate unpaid principal balance in excess of (less than) fair value(93)(579)The following table provides information about short-term borrowings carried at fair value:In millions of dollarsMarch 31, 2018December 31, 2017Carrying amount reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet$4,467$4,627Aggregate unpaid principal balance in excess of fair value4637417622.   GUARANTEES AND COMMITMENTSCiti provides a variety of guarantees and indemnifications to its customers to enhance their credit standing and enable them to complete a wide variety of business transactions. Forcertain contracts meeting the definition of a guarantee, the guarantor must recognize, at inception, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.In addition, the guarantor must disclose the maximum potential amount of future payments that the guarantor could be required to make under the guarantee, if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The determination of the maximum potential future payments is based on the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration of possible  recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or pledged. As such, Citi believes such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated losses, if any, on these guarantees. For additional information regarding Citi s guarantees and indemnifications included in the tables below, as well as its other guarantees and indemnifications excluded from the tables below, see Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.The following tables present information about Citi s guarantees at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017:(1)The carrying values of securities lending indemnifications and credit card merchant processing were not material for either period presented, as the probability of potential liabilities arising from these guarantees is minimal.(2)At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, this maximum potential exposure was estimated to be $83 billion and $86 billion, respectively. However, Citi believes that the maximum exposure is not representative of the actual potential loss exposure based on its historical experience. This contingent liability is unlikely to arise, as most products and services are delivered when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are returned to merchants. 177Loans sold with recourseLoans sold with recourse represent Citi s obligations toreimburse the buyers for loan losses under certaincircumstances. Recourse refers to the clause in a salesagreement under which a seller/lender will fully reimbursethe buyer/investor for any losses resulting from thepurchased loans. This may be accomplished by the sellertaking back any loans that become delinquent.In addition to the amounts shown in the tables above,Citi has recorded a repurchase reserve for its potentialrepurchases or make-whole liability regarding residentialmortgage representation and warranty claims related to itswhole loan sales to the U.S. government-sponsoredenterprises (GSEs) and, to a lesser extent, private investors.The repurchase reserve was approximately $66 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, and these amounts are included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Credit card arrangements with partnersCiti, in certain of its credit card partner arrangements,provides guarantees to the partner regarding the volume ofcertain customer originations during the term of theagreement. To the extent such origination targets are not met,the guarantees serve to compensate the partner for certainpayments that otherwise would have been generated inconnection with such originations.Other guarantees and indemnificationsCredit Card Protection ProgramsCiti, through its credit card businesses, provides variouscardholder protection programs on several of its cardproducts, including programs that provide insurancecoverage for rental cars, coverage for certain lossesassociated with purchased products, price protection forcertain purchases and protection for lost luggage. Theseguarantees are not included in the table, since the totaloutstanding amount of the guarantees and Citi s maximumexposure to loss cannot be quantified. The protection islimited to certain types of purchases and losses, and it is notpossible to quantify the purchases that would qualify forthese benefits at any given time. Citi assesses the probabilityand amount of its potential liability related to these programsbased on the extent and nature of its historical lossexperience. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the actual and estimated losses incurred and the carrying value of Citi s obligations related to these programs wereimmaterial.Value-Transfer NetworksCiti is a member of, or shareholder in, hundreds of value-transfer networks (VTNs) (payment, clearing and settlementsystems as well as exchanges) around the world. As acondition of membership, many of these VTNs require thatmembers stand ready to pay a pro rata share of the lossesincurred by the organization due to another member s defaulton its obligations. Citi s potential obligations may be limitedto its membership interests in the VTNs, contributions to the VTN s funds, or, in limited cases, the obligation may be unlimited. The maximum exposure cannot be estimated asthis would require an assessment of claims that havenot yet occurred. Citi believes the risk of loss is remotegiven historical experience with the VTNs. Accordingly,Citi s participation in VTNs is not reported in the guaranteestables above, and there are no amounts reflected on theConsolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018 orDecember 31, 2017 for potential obligations that could arisefrom Citi s involvement with VTN associations.Long-Term Care Insurance IndemnificationIn 2000, Travelers Life & Annuity (Travelers), then a subsidiary of Citi, entered into a reinsurance agreement to transfer the risks and rewards of its long-term care (LTC) business to GE Life (now Genworth Financial Inc., or Genworth), then a subsidiary of the General Electric Company (GE). As part of this transaction, the reinsurance obligations were provided by two regulated insurance subsidiaries of GE Life, which funded two collateral trusts with securities. Presently, as discussed below, the trusts are referred to as the Genworth Trusts. As part of GE s spin-off of Genworth in 2004, GE retained the risks and rewards associated with the 2000 Travelers reinsurance agreement by providing a reinsurance contract to Genworth through its Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company (UFLIC) subsidiary that covers the Travelers LTC policies. In addition, GE provided a capital maintenance agreement in favor of UFLIC which is designed to assure that UFLIC will have the funds to pay its reinsurance obligations. As a result of these reinsurance agreements and the spin-off of Genworth, Genworth has reinsurance protection from UFLIC (supported by GE) and has reinsurance obligations in connection with the Travelers LTC policies.  As noted below, the Genworth reinsurance obligations now benefit Brighthouse Financial, Inc. (Brighthouse). While neither Brighthouse nor Citi are direct beneficiaries of the capital maintenance agreement between GE and UFLIC, Brighthouse and Citi benefit indirectly from the existence of the capital maintenance agreement, which helps assure that UFLIC will continue to have funds necessary to pay its reinsurance obligations to Genworth.  In connection with Citi s 2005 sale of Travelers to MetLife Inc. (MetLife), Citi provided an indemnification to MetLife for losses (including policyholder claims) relating to the LTC business for the entire term of the Travelers LTC policies, which, as noted above, are reinsured by subsidiaries of Genworth. In 2017, MetLife spun off its retail insurance business to Brighthouse.  As a result, the Travelers LTC policies now reside with Brighthouse.  The original reinsurance agreement between Travelers (now Brighthouse) and Genworth remains in place and Brighthouse is the sole beneficiary of the Genworth Trusts. The fair value of the Genworth Trusts is approximately $7.4 billion as of March 31, 2018, compared to $7.5 billion at December 31, 2017. The Genworth Trusts are designed to provide collateral to Brighthouse in an amount equal to the statutory liabilities of Brighthouse in respect of the Travelers LTC policies. The assets in the Genworth Trusts are evaluated and adjusted 178periodically to ensure that the fair value of the assets continues to provide collateral in an amount equal to these estimated statutory liabilities, as the liabilities change over time.      If both (i) Genworth fails to perform under the originalTravelers/GE Life reinsurance agreement for any reason,including insolvency or the failure of UFLIC to perform in a timely manner, and (ii) the assets of the two Genworth Trustsare insufficient or unavailable, then Citi, through its LTCreinsurance indemnification, must reimburse Brighthouse forany losses incurred in connection with the LTC policies. Since both events would have to occur before Citi would become responsible for any payment to Brighthouse pursuant to its indemnification obligation, and the likelihood of such events occurring is currently not probable, there is no liability reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 related to this indemnification. Citi continues to closely monitor its potential exposure under this indemnification obligation.        Separately, Genworth announced that it had agreed tobe purchased by China Oceanwide Holdings Co., Ltd, subject to a series of conditions and regulatory approvals. Citi is monitoring these developments.179Futures and over-the-counter derivatives clearingCiti provides clearing services on central clearing parties (CCP) for clients that need to clear exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives contracts with CCPs. Based on all relevant facts and circumstances, Citi has concluded that it acts as an agent for accounting purposes in its role as clearing member for these client transactions. As such, Citi does not reflect the underlying exchange-traded or OTC derivatives contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 19 for a discussion of Citi s derivatives activities that are reflected in its Consolidated Financial Statements.As a clearing member, Citi collects and remits cash and securities collateral (margin) between its clients and therespective CCP. In certain circumstances, Citi collects a higher amount of cash (or securities) from its clients than it needs to remit to the CCPs. This excess cash is then held at depository institutions such as banks or carry brokers.There are two types of margin: initial and variation. Where Citi obtains benefits from or controls cash initial margin (e.g., retains an interest spread), cash initial margin collected from clients and remitted to the CCP or depository institutions is reflected within Brokerage payables (payables to customers) and Brokerage receivables (receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations) or Cash and due from banks, respectively. However, for exchange traded and OTC-cleared derivatives contracts where Citi does not obtain benefits from or control the client cash balances, the client cash initial margin collected from clients and remitted to the CCP or depository institutions is not reflected on Citi s Consolidated Balance Sheet. These conditions are met when Citi has contractually agreed with the client that (i) Citi will pass through to the client all interest paid by the CCP or depository institutions on the cash initial margin, (ii) Citi will not utilize its right as a clearing member to transform cash margin into other assets, (iii) Citi does not guarantee and is not liable to the client for the performance of the CCP or the depository institution and (iv) the client cash balances are legally isolated from Citi s bankruptcy estate. The total amount of cash initial margin collected and remitted in this manner was approximately $11.6 billion and $10.7 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.Variation margin due from clients to the respective CCP, or from the CCP to clients, reflects changes in the value of the client s derivative contracts for each trading day. As a clearing member, Citi is exposed to the risk of nonperformance by clients (e.g., failure of a client to postvariation margin to the CCP for negative changes in thevalue of the client s derivative contracts). In the event ofnon-performance by a client, Citi would move to close out the client s positions. The CCP would typically utilize initialmargin posted by the client and held by the CCP, with anyremaining shortfalls required to be paid by Citi as clearingmember. Citi generally holds incremental cash or securitiesmargin posted by the client, which would typically beexpected to be sufficient to mitigate Citi s credit risk in theevent the client fails to perform.As required by ASC 860-30-25-5, securities collateral posted by clients is not recognized on Citi s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Carrying Value Guarantees and IndemnificationsAt March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total carrying amounts of the liabilities related to the guarantees and indemnifications included in the tables above amounted to approximately $0.8 billion and $0.8 billion. The carrying value of financial and performance guarantees is included in Other liabilities. For loans sold with recourse, the carrying value of the liability is included in Other liabilities.CollateralCash collateral available to Citi to reimburse losses realized under these guarantees and indemnifications amounted to $52 billion and $46 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Securities and other marketable assets held as collateral amounted to $88 billion and $70 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The majority of collateral is held to reimburse losses realized under securities lending indemnifications. Additionally, letters of credit in favor of Citi held as collateral amounted to $3.9 billion and $3.7 billion at both March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Other property may also be available to Citi to cover losses under certain guarantees and indemnifications; however, the value of such property has not been determined.Performance riskPresented in the tables below are the maximum potential amounts of future payments that are classified based upon internal and external credit ratings. The determination of the maximum potential future payments is based on the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or pledged. As such, Citi believes such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated losses, if any, on these guarantees.180 Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2017InvestmentgradeNon-investmentgradeNotratedTotalFinancial standby letters of credit$68.1$10.9$14.8$93.8Performance guarantees7.92.41.011.3Derivative instruments deemed to be guarantees  95.995.9Loans sold with recourse  0.20.2Securities lending indemnifications  103.7103.7Credit card merchant processing  85.585.5Credit card arrangements with partners  1.41.4Custody indemnifications and other23.712.3 36.0Total$99.7$25.6$302.5$427.8181Credit Commitments and Lines of CreditThe table below summarizes Citigroup s credit commitments:The majority of unused commitments are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards. Commercial commitments generally have floating interest rates and fixed expiration dates and may require payment of fees. Such fees (net of certain direct costs) are deferred and, upon exercise of the commitment, amortized over the life of the loan or, if exercise is deemed remote, amortized over the commitment period.Other commitments and contingenciesOther commitments and contingencies include all other transactions related to commitments and contingencies not reported on the lines above.Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities lending agreements and unsettled repurchase and securities borrowing agreementsIn addition, in the normal course of business, Citigroup enters into reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements, as well as repurchase and securities lending agreements, which settle at a future date. At March 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, Citigroup had $78.7 billion and $35.0 billion of unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements, respectively, and $33.7 billion and $19.1 billion of unsettled repurchase and securities lending agreements, respectively. For a further discussion of securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed, and securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities loaned, including the Company s policy for offsetting repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.18223.   CONTINGENCIESThe following information supplements and amends, as applicable, the disclosures in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. For purposes of this Note, Citigroup, its affiliates and subsidiaries and current and former officers, directors and employees, are sometimes collectively referred to as Citigroup and Related Parties.In accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup establishes accruals for contingencies, including the litigation and regulatory matters disclosed herein, when Citigroup believes it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Once established, accruals are adjusted from time to time, as appropriate, in light of additional information. The amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued for those matters.If Citigroup has not accrued for a matter because the matter does not meet the criteria for accrual (as set forth above), or Citigroup believes an exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued for a particular matter, in each case assuming a material loss is reasonably possible, Citigroup discloses the matter. In addition, for such matters, Citigroup discloses an estimate of the aggregate reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amounts accrued for those matters as to which an estimate can be made. At March 31, 2018, Citigroup s estimate of the reasonably possible unaccrued loss for these matters was materially unchanged from the estimate of approximately $1.0 billion in the aggregate as of December 31, 2017.As available information changes, the matters for which Citigroup is able to estimate will change, and the estimates themselves will change. In addition, while many estimates presented in financial statements and other financial disclosures involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, estimates of the range of reasonably possible loss arising from litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to particular uncertainties. For example, at the time of making an estimate, Citigroup may have only preliminary, incomplete or inaccurate information about the facts underlying the claim; its assumptions about the future rulings of the court or other tribunal on significant issues, or the behavior and incentives of adverse parties or regulators, may prove to be wrong; and the outcomes it is attempting to predict are often not amenable to the use of statistical or other quantitative analytical tools. In addition, from time to time an outcome may occur that Citigroup had not accounted for in its estimates because it had deemed such an outcome to be remote. For all these reasons, the amount of loss in excess of accruals ultimately incurred for the matters as to which an estimate has been made could be substantially higher or lower than the range of loss included in the estimate.Subject to the foregoing, it is the opinion of Citigroup's management, based on current knowledge and after taking into account its current legal accruals, that the eventual outcome of all matters described in this Note would not be likely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of Citigroup. Nonetheless, given the substantial or  indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of such matters, an adverse outcome in certain of these matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on Citigroup s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.For further information on ASC 450 and Citigroup's accounting and disclosure framework for contingencies, including for litigation and regulatory matters disclosed herein, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Citigroup s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Credit Crisis-Related Litigation and Other MattersMortgage-Backed Securities Trustee Actions: On March 22, 2018, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Citibank s motion for summary judgment and denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification in FIXED INCOME SHARES: SERIES M ET AL. v. CITIBANK N.A. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 14-cv-9373 (S.D.N.Y.) (Furman, J.).On March 13, 2018, Citibank filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint filed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION AS RECEIVER FOR GUARANTY BANK v. CITIBANK N.A. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 15-cv-6574 (S.D.N.Y.) (Carter, J.).Tribune Company BankruptcyOn April 3, 2018, the United States Supreme Court issued an order deferring consideration of the noteholders  petition for a writ of certiorari appealing the dismissal of their claims from KIRSCHNER v. FITZSIMONS, ET AL. Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 08-13141 (Bankr. D. Del.) (Carey, J.), 11 MD 02296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.), 12 MC 2296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.), 13-3992, 13-3875, 13-4196 (2d Cir.) and 16-317 (U.S.).Depositary Receipts Conversion LitigationOn March 23, 2018, the court granted in part and denied in part plaintiffs  motion for class certification, certifying only a class of holders of Citi-sponsored American depositary receipts that plaintiffs own.  Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 15 Civ. 9185 (S.D.N.Y.) (McMahon, C).   Foreign Exchange MattersAntitrust and Other Litigation: On March 12, 2018, the court in NYPL v. JPMORGAN CHASE & CO., ET AL. granted the motion of defendants to dismiss claims based on conduct after 2013, but denied the motion in other respects. On March 7, 2018, the plaintiffs asked the court to expand the case to include additional types of transactions, which the defendants opposed. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 15 183Civ. 2290 (N.D. Cal.) (Chhabria, J.) and 15 Civ. 9300 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).On March 15, 2018, the court in CONTANT, ET AL. v. BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, ET AL. granted the motion of defendants to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. On April 5, 2018, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second consolidated class action complaint. Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 16 Civ. 7512 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.), 17 Civ. 4392 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.), and 17 Civ. 3139 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).Interbank Offered Rates-Related Litigation and OtherMattersAntitrust and Other Litigation: In IN RE LIBOR-BASED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ANTITRUST LITIGATION, on February 28, 2018, the court denied certification of two classes (investors who transacted in Eurodollar futures or options on exchanges and lending institutions with interests in loans tied to USD LIBOR) and certified the largest plaintiffs  class (investors who purchased over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives from USD LIBOR panel banks) with respect to the antitrust claims against certain remaining defendants. On March 24, 2018, the parties filed petitions in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit seeking review of the court s class-certification rulings. On February 23, 2018, the Second Circuit vacated the portion of the judgment entered by the district court on April 11, 2016, that dismissed non-antitrust claims of various Schwab entities on personal jurisdiction grounds, and remanded the case to the district court. Additional information concerning these actions and related actions and appeals is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 11 MD 2262 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.) and 16-1189 (2d Cir.).Parmalat LitigationOn March 2, 2018, Parmalat filed an appeal to the Milan Court of Appeal against the January 25, 2018 decision of the Milan civil court dismissing Parmalat s claim for  1.8 billion against Citigroup and Related Parties.Shareholder Derivative LitigationOn March 12, 2018, the Delaware Chancery Court denied plaintiffs  motion to reopen the judgment and for leave to amend the complaint in OKLAHOMA FIREFIGHTERS PENSION & RETIREMENT SYSTEM, ET AL. v. CORBAT, ET AL.  Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers C.A. No. 12151-VCG (Del. Ch.) (Glasscock, Ch.) and No. 32, 2018 (Del.).Sovereign Securities MattersAntitrust and Other Litigation: In IN RE TREASURYSECURITIES AUCTION ANTITRUST LITIGATION, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI) and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended consolidated complaint on February 23, 2018. Additional information relating to this action is publicly available in court filings  under the docket number 15 MD 2673 (S.D.N.Y.) (Gardephe, J.).On March 30, 2018, a new putative class action captioned OKLAHOMA FIREFIGHTERS PENSION & RETIREMENT SYSTEM AND ELECTRICAL WORKERS PENSION FUND LOCAL 103 v. BANCO SANTANDER S.A., ET AL. was filed against numerous defendants, including Citigroup, CGMI, Citigroup Financial Products Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc., and Citibanamex in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges a conspiracy to fix prices in the Mexican sovereign bond market from 2006 to 2017, and asserts antitrust and unjust enrichment claims against the Citi defendants, as well as a number of other banks. Plaintiffs seek treble damages, restitution, and injunctive relief. Additional information relating to this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 18 Civ. 2830 (S.D.N.Y.) (Oetken, J.).Settlement PaymentsPayments required in settlement agreements described above have been made or are covered by existing litigation accruals.18424.   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Citigroup amended its Registration Statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC (File No. 33-192302) to add its wholly owned subsidiary, Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. (CGMHI), as a co-registrant. Any securities issued by CGMHI under the Form S-3 will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Citigroup. The following are the Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 and Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 for Citigroup Inc., the parent holding company (Citigroup parent company), CGMHI, other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminations and total consolidating adjustments.  Other Citigroup subsidiaries and eliminations  includes all other subsidiaries of Citigroup, intercompany eliminations and income (loss) from discontinued operations.  Consolidating adjustments  includes Citigroup parent company elimination of distributed and undistributed income of subsidiaries and investment in subsidiaries.   These Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements have been prepared and presented in accordance with SEC Regulation S-X Rule 3-10,  Financial Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities Registered or Being Registered.  These Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements schedules are presented for purposes of additional analysis, but should be considered in relation to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Citigroup taken as a whole. 185Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income186Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income187Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet(1)Other assets for Citigroup parent company at March 31, 2018 included $24.8 billion of placements to Citibank and its branches, of which $20.3 billion had a remaining term of less than 30 days. 188Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet(1)Other assets for Citigroup parent company at December 31, 2017 included $29.7 billion of placements to Citibank and its branches, of which $18.9 billion had a remaining term of less than 30 days. 189Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows 190Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows191UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES, PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND DIVIDENDSUnregistered Sales of Equity SecuritiesNone.Equity Security RepurchasesThe following table summarizes Citi s equity security repurchases, which consisted entirely of common stock repurchases:In millions, except per share amountsTotal sharespurchasedAverageprice paidper shareApproximate dollarvalue of shares thatmay yet be purchasedunder the plan orprogramsJanuary 2018   Open market repurchases(1)7.9$76.87$4,018Employee transactions(2)  N/AFebruary 2018   Open market repurchases(1)13.275.633,022Employee transactions(2)0.476.71N/AMarch 2018   Open market repurchases(1)9.272.722,350Employee transactions(2)  N/ATotal for 1Q18 and remaining program balance as of March 31, 201830.7$75.09$2,350(1)Represents repurchases under the $15.6 billion 2017 common stock repurchase program (2017 Repurchase Program) that was approved by Citigroup s Board of Directors and announced on June 28, 2017. The 2017 Repurchase Program was part of the planned capital actions included by Citi in its 2017 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). Shares repurchased under the 2017 Repurchase Program were added to treasury stock.(2)Consisted of shares added to treasury stock related to (i) certain activity on employee stock option program exercises where the employee delivers existing shares to cover the option exercise, or (ii) under Citi s employee restricted where shares are withheld to satisfy tax requirements.N/A   Not applicableDividendsIn addition to Board of Directors  approval, Citi s ability to pay common stock dividends substantially depends on regulatory approval, including an annual regulatory review of the results of the CCAR process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. For additional information regarding Citi s capital planning and stress testing, see  Capital Resources Current Regulatory Capital Standards  and  Regulatory Capital Standards Developments  above and  Risk Factors Strategic Risks  and  Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning  in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any dividend on Citi s outstanding common stock would also need to be made in compliance with Citi s obligations to its outstanding preferred stock. For information on the ability of Citigroup s subsidiary depository institutions to pay dividends, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Citi s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  192SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 1st day of May, 2018.CITIGROUP INC.(Registrant)By    /s/ John C. GerspachJohn C. GerspachChief Financial Officer(Principal Financial Officer)By    /s/ Raja J. AkramRaja J. AkramController and Chief Accounting Officer(Principal Accounting Officer)193EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit  Number Description of Exhibit3.01+ Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Citigroup Inc., as amended, as in effect on the date hereof.   12.01+ Calculation of Ratio of Income to Fixed Charges.   12.02+ Calculation of Ratio of Income to Fixed Charges Including Preferred Stock Dividends.   31.01+ Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   31.02+ Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   32.01+ Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   101.01+ Financial statements from the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed on May 1, 2018, formatted in XBRL: (i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The total amount of securities authorized pursuant to any instrument defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company will furnish copies of any such instrument to the SEC upon request. + Filed herewith.    194   