<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>y94438e10vk.txt
<DESCRIPTION>METLIFE, INC.
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                               .
                                                                               .
                                                                               .

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

<Table>
<C>          <S>
 (Mark One)
    [X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



               FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003



                                   OR




    [ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO
</Table>

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 001-15787
                                 METLIFE, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

<Table>
<S>                                              <C>
                    DELAWARE                                        13-4075851
        (State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
         incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)
</Table>

                               ONE MADISON AVENUE
                         NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10010-3690
                                 (212) 578-2211
   (Address and telephone number of registrant's principal executive offices)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

<Table>
<Caption>
              TITLE OF EACH CLASS                   NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
              -------------------                   -----------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>
          Common Stock, par value $.01                       New York Stock Exchange
              5.875% Senior Notes                            New York Stock Exchange
</Table>

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  NONE

     Indicate  by check  mark whether the  registrant (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]     No [ ]

     Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K  (sec. 229.405 of this  chapter) is not contained  herein,
and  will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements  incorporated by reference in  Part III of  this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ ]

     Indicate  by check mark whether the  registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes [X]     No [ ]

     The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity  held
by  non-affiliates of the registrant  as of June 30,  2003 was approximately $22
billion. As of  March 1,  2004, 755,809,398  shares of  the registrant's  Common
Stock were outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     THE  INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE FURNISHED PURSUANT  TO PART OF ITEM 10, AND
ITEMS 11, 12, 13 AND 14  OF PART III OF THIS FORM  10-K IS SET FORTH IN, AND  IS
HEREBY  INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE HEREIN FROM, THE REGISTRANT'S DEFINITIVE PROXY
STATEMENT FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS  TO BE HELD ON APRIL 27,  2004,
TO  BE  FILED BY  THE  REGISTRANT WITH  THE  SECURITIES AND  EXCHANGE COMMISSION
PURSUANT TO REGULATION 14A NOT LATER THAN 120 DAYS AFTER THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2003.
<PAGE>

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                         PAGE
                                                                        NUMBER
                                                                        ------
<S>       <C>                                                           <C>
                                     PART I
Item 1.   Business....................................................     3
Item 2.   Properties..................................................    27
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings...........................................    28
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........    35

                                    PART II
Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters.........................................    36
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.....................................    37
Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................    41
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
          Risk........................................................   107
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   112
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
          and Financial Disclosure....................................   113
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures.....................................   113

                                    PART III
Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........   113
Item 11.  Executive Compensation......................................   113
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management and Related Stockholder Matters..................   114
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............   114
Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services......................   114

                                    PART IV
Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
          8-K.........................................................   115

SIGNATURES............................................................   122

EXHIBIT INDEX.........................................................   E-1
</Table>
<PAGE>

NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management's Discussion  and
Analysis  of Financial Condition and  Results of Operations, contains statements
which constitute forward-looking  statements within the  meaning of the  Private
Securities  Litigation  Reform Act  of  1995, including  statements  relating to
trends in the operations and financial results and the business and the products
of the Registrant and  its subsidiaries, as well  as other statements  including
words  such as  "anticipate," "believe," "plan,"  "estimate," "expect," "intend"
and other similar  expressions. "MetLife"  or the "Company"  refers to  MetLife,
Inc.,  a  Delaware corporation  (the "Holding  Company"), and  its subsidiaries,
including   Metropolitan   Life   Insurance   Company   ("Metropolitan   Life").
Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations
and  beliefs concerning future  developments and their  potential effects on the
Company.  Such  forward-looking   statements  are  not   guarantees  of   future
performance.

     Actual   results  may  differ   materially  from  those   included  in  the
forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but
not limited  to, the  following:  (i) changes  in general  economic  conditions,
including  the  performance  of  financial  markets  and  interest  rates;  (ii)
heightened  competition,  including  with  respect  to  pricing,  entry  of  new
competitors and the development of new products by new and existing competitors;
(iii)  unanticipated changes  in industry  trends; (iv)  MetLife, Inc.'s primary
reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet  debt
payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of
the  subsidiaries to pay such dividends;  (v) deterioration in the experience of
the  "closed  block"  established  in  connection  with  the  reorganization  of
Metropolitan  Life;  (vi) catastrophe  losses;  (vii) adverse  results  or other
consequences from litigation, arbitration  or regulatory investigations;  (viii)
regulatory,  accounting or tax  changes that may  affect the cost  of, or demand
for, the Company's products  or services; (ix) downgrades  in the Company's  and
its affiliates' claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (x)
changes  in  rating agency  policies  or practices;  (xi)  discrepancies between
actual claims  experience  and  assumptions  used  in  setting  prices  for  the
Company's   products  and   establishing  the  liabilities   for  the  Company's
obligations for future policy benefits  and claims; (xii) discrepancies  between
actual  experience and assumptions  used in establishing  liabilities related to
other contingencies or obligations; (xiii) the effects of business disruption or
economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xiv) the  Company's
ability  to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions,
and to successfully integrate acquired  businesses with minimal disruption;  and
(xv)  other  risks and  uncertainties described  from time  to time  in MetLife,
Inc.'s filings with the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission, including  its
S-1  and  S-3 registration  statements. The  Company specifically  disclaims any
obligation to  update or  revise  any forward-looking  statement, whether  as  a
result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

                                        2
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     As  used in this Form  10-K, "MetLife" or the  "Company" refers to MetLife,
Inc., a  Delaware corporation  (the "Holding  Company"), and  its  subsidiaries,
including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("Metropolitan Life").

     MetLife,  Inc.,  through  its  affiliates and  subsidiaries,  is  a leading
provider of  insurance and  other  financial services  to  a broad  spectrum  of
individual  and  institutional  customers. The  Company  offers  life insurance,
annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance and mutual funds to  individuals,
as well as group insurance, reinsurance, and retirement and savings products and
services  to corporations  and other  institutions. The  MetLife companies serve
approximately 13  million  households  in  the  U.S.  and  provide  benefits  to
approximately  37  million  employees  and  family  members  through  their plan
sponsors, including 88 of the FORTUNE 100 largest companies. MetLife, Inc.  also
has   direct  international   insurance  operations  in   10  countries  serving
approximately 8 million customers.

     MetLife is one of the largest insurance and financial services companies in
the U.S. The Company's unparalleled franchises and brand names uniquely position
it to  be the  preeminent  provider of  protection  and savings  and  investment
products in the U.S. In addition, MetLife's international operations are focused
on  emerging markets where  the demand for insurance  and savings and investment
products is expected to grow rapidly in the future.

     MetLife's  well-recognized   brand   names,   leading   market   positions,
competitive   and  innovative  product  offerings  and  financial  strength  and
expertise should  help  drive  future  growth  and  enhance  shareholder  value,
building on a long history of fairness, honesty and integrity.

     Over  the  course  of  the  next several  years,  MetLife  will  pursue the
following specific strategies to achieve its goals:

     - Build on widely recognized brand names

     - Capitalize on large customer base

     - Enhance capital efficiency

     - Expand multiple distribution channels

     - Continue to introduce innovative and competitive products

     - Focus international operations on emerging markets

     - Maintain balanced focus on asset accumulation and protection products

     - Manage operating expenses commensurate with revenue growth

     - Strengthen performance-oriented culture

     - Further commitment to a diverse workplace

     - Optimize operating returns from the Company's investment portfolio

     MetLife is organized into six business segments: Institutional, Individual,
Auto  &  Home,  International,  Reinsurance  and  Asset  Management.   Financial
information,  including revenues, expenses, income and loss, and total assets by
segment, is provided in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

INSTITUTIONAL

     The Company's Institutional segment offers a broad range of group insurance
and retirement  and savings  products  and services  to corporations  and  other
institutions.

                                        3
<PAGE>

     Group  insurance  products  and  services  include  group  life  insurance,
non-medical health insurance, such as short and long-term disability,  long-term
care  and dental insurance and related administrative services, as well as other
benefits, such  as employer-sponsored  auto  and homeowners  insurance  provided
through  the Auto & Home  segment and prepaid legal  services plans. The Company
offers these  products either  as an  employer-paid benefit  or as  a  voluntary
benefit  in which the premiums are paid  by the employee. Revenues applicable to
these group  insurance  products  and  services  were  $10.3  billion  in  2003,
representing 72.5% of total Institutional revenues of $14.2 billion.

     MetLife  has built  a leading position  in the U.S.  group insurance market
through long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers
in the  U.S. MetLife  serves companies  and institutions  with approximately  37
million  employees and family members through  their plan sponsors, including 88
of the FORTUNE 100 largest companies.

     MetLife's retirement and savings products and services include an array  of
annuity   and  investment  products,  as  well  as  bundled  administrative  and
investment services sold to  sponsors of small- and  mid-sized 401(k) and  other
defined  contribution plans, guaranteed interest products and other stable value
products, accumulation and income annuities, and separate account contracts  for
the investment of defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. Revenues
applicable  to MetLife's  retirement and savings  products were  $3.9 billion in
2003, representing 27.5% of total Institutional revenues.

     The employee  benefit market  served  by Institutional  is a  dynamic  one.
Employers  continue to seek ways to reduce costs and improve the productivity of
their workforces. The continued high annual  increases in the cost of  providing
employee  medical care benefits have resulted in many employers reviewing all of
their employee benefit programs. Such reviews  are designed to identify ways  to
reduce  costs while continuing to provide  desirable benefit programs to attract
and retain  valuable  employees.  The  employee  benefit  market  also  reflects
employees'  increasing concern about the  future of government-funded retirement
and safety-net  programs, an  increasingly mobile  workforce and  the desire  of
employers  to  share  the market  risk  of retirement  benefits  with employees.
MetLife believes these trends are  facilitating the introduction and  increasing
employer  support  of "voluntary"  products,  such as  supplemental  group life,
long-term care insurance, annuities, auto and homeowners insurance, and  certain
critical  care  products, as  well as  leading more  employers to  adopt defined
contribution pension arrangements, such as 401(k) plans.

  MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

     Institutional markets  its products  and  services through  separate  sales
forces,  comprised  of  MetLife  employees, for  both  its  group  insurance and
retirement and savings lines.

     MetLife distributes its  group insurance  products and  services through  a
regional  sales force  that is  segmented by  the size  of the  target customer.
Marketing  representatives  sell   either  directly  to   corporate  and   other
institutional  customers  or through  an  intermediary, such  as  a broker  or a
consultant. Voluntary products are sold through the same sales channels, as well
as by  specialists  for these  products.  As of  December  31, 2003,  the  group
insurance sales channels had approximately 795 marketing representatives.

     MetLife  group insurance products and  services are distributed through the
following channels:

     - The National  Accounts  unit  focuses exclusively  on  MetLife's  largest
       customers,  generally those having more  than 25,000 employees. This unit
       assigns  account  executives  and  other  administrative  and   technical
       personnel  to  a discrete  customer  or group  of  customers in  order to
       provide them with individualized products and services;

     - The  regional  sales  force  operates  from  30  offices  and   generally
       concentrates  on  sales to  employers with  fewer than  25,000 employees,
       through selected  national  and  regional brokers,  as  well  as  through
       consultants; and

     - The  Small Business Center focuses on improving MetLife's position in the
       smaller end of the market. Currently, 27 individual offices staffed  with
       sales  and administrative employees are located throughout the U.S. These
       centers provide  comprehensive  support  services on  a  local  basis  to
       brokers and other

                                        4
<PAGE>

       intermediaries  by providing an  array of products  and services designed
       for smaller businesses, generally those with fewer than 1,000 employees.

     MetLife's retirement and savings organization markets retirement,  savings,
investment  and payout products and services to sponsors and advisors of benefit
plans of  all sizes.  These products  and services  are offered  to private  and
public  plans, collective bargaining  units, nonprofit organizations, recipients
of structured settlements and the current and retired members of these and other
institutions.

     MetLife distributes retirement  and savings products  and services  through
dedicated sales teams and relationship managers located in 27 offices around the
country.  In addition,  the retirement and  savings organization  works with the
distribution channels  in  the Individual  segment,  group insurance  and  State
Street  Research & Management Company, a  subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., to better
reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

     The Company has entered into several joint ventures and other  arrangements
with  third parties  to expand the  marketing and  distribution opportunities of
institutional products  and  services.  The  Company  also  seeks  to  sell  its
institutional   products  and  services  through  sponsoring  organizations  and
affinity groups. For example, the Company  is a preferred provider of  long-term
care  products for the American Association  of Retired Persons and the National
Long-Term Care Coalition, a group of some of the nation's largest employers.  In
addition, the Company, together with John Hancock Financial Services, Inc., is a
provider  for  the  Federal  Long-Term  Care  Insurance  program.  The  program,
available  to  most  federal  employees  and  their  families,  is  the  largest
employer-sponsored  long-term  care insurance  program in  the country  based on
enrollees.

  GROUP INSURANCE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     MetLife's group insurance products and services include:

          Group life.  Group life insurance products and services include  group
     term  life, group universal life,  group variable universal life, dependent
     life and survivor  benefits. These  products and services  can be  standard
     products  or tailored to  meet specific customer  needs. This category also
     includes specialized  life  insurance  products  designed  specifically  to
     provide  solutions for  non-qualified benefit  and retiree  benefit funding
     purposes.

          Non-medical health.   Non-medical health insurance  consists of  short
     and  long-term disability, long-term care,  dental and accidental death and
     dismemberment. MetLife also sells  excess risk and administrative  services
     only arrangements to some employers.

          Other  products  and services.   Other  products and  services include
     employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance provided through the  Auto
     & Home segment and prepaid legal plans.

  RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     MetLife's retirement and savings products and services include:

          Guaranteed  interest  and  stable  value  products.    MetLife  offers
     guaranteed interest  contracts  ("GICs"), including  separate  account  and
     synthetic (trust) GICs, funding agreements and similar products.

          Accumulation  and  income  products.   MetLife  also  sells  fixed and
     variable  annuity   products,   generally  in   connection   with   defined
     contribution  plans, the  termination of  pension plans  or the  funding of
     structured settlements.

          Defined contribution  plan services.   MetLife  provides full  service
     defined contribution programs to small- and mid-size companies.

          Other  retirement and savings products and services.  Other retirement
     and savings products  and services include  separate account contracts  for
     the investment management of defined benefit and defined contribution plans
     on behalf of corporations and other institutions.

                                        5
<PAGE>

INDIVIDUAL

     MetLife's  Individual segment offers a wide variety of protection and asset
accumulation products  aimed at  serving the  financial needs  of its  customers
throughout  their  entire life  cycle.  Products offered  by  Individual include
insurance products, such as traditional,  universal and variable life  insurance
and  variable and fixed annuities. In addition, Individual sales representatives
distribute disability insurance  and long-term care  insurance products  offered
through  the Institutional segment, investment products such as mutual funds, as
well as other products offered  by the Company's other businesses.  Individual's
principal distribution channels are the MetLife Financial Services career agency
system,  the  New  England  Financial  general  agency  system,  the  GenAmerica
Financial  independent  general  agency  system  and  MetLife  Investors  Group.
Individual  distributes  its  products through  several  additional distribution
channels, including Walnut Street Securities, MetLife Resources and Texas  Life.
In  total, Individual had  approximately 11,200 active  sales representatives at
December 31, 2003.

     MetLife's broadly recognized brand  names and strong distribution  channels
have  allowed  it  to  become  the third  largest  provider  of  individual life
insurance and  annuities in  the U.S.,  with $12.7  billion of  total  statutory
individual  life and annuity  premiums and deposits  through September 30, 2003,
the latest period for which OneSource, a database that aggregates U.S. insurance
company statutory  financial statements,  is  available. According  to  research
performed  by the Life  Insurance Marketing and  Research Association ("LIMRA"),
based on sales through September 30, 2003, MetLife was the second largest issuer
of individual variable life insurance in  the U.S. and the fifth largest  issuer
of  all individual life insurance products in the U.S. In addition, according to
research done by LIMRA and based  on new annuity deposits through September  30,
2003, MetLife was the fourth largest annuity writer in the U.S.

     Reflecting  overall trends  in the  insurance industry,  sales of MetLife's
traditional life  insurance products  have declined  in recent  years.  However,
during the period from 1999 to 2003, the statutory deposits for annuity products
increased  at  a  compound  annual growth  rate  of  approximately  23%. Annuity
deposits represented approximately 58% of total statutory premiums and  deposits
for Individual in 2003. Individual had $12.4 billion of total revenues, or 34.7%
of MetLife's total revenues in 2003.

  MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

     The  Company targets  the large middle-income  market, as  well as affluent
individuals, owners of small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized
companies. The  Company has  also been  successful in  selling its  products  in
various  multicultural markets.  Individual products  are distributed nationwide
through multiple  channels,  with the  primary  distribution systems  being  the
MetLife  Financial  Services career  agency  system, the  New  England Financial
general agency  system,  the  GenAmerica Financial  independent  general  agency
system and MetLife Investors Group.

     MetLife  Financial Services  career agency  system.   The MetLife Financial
Services career agency system had 5,531 agents under contract in 129 agencies at
December  31,  2003.  The  career  agency  sales  force  focuses  on  the  large
middle-income and affluent markets, including multicultural markets. The Company
supports  its  efforts in  multicultural  markets through  targeted advertising,
specially trained  agents and  sales literature  written in  various  languages.
Multicultural   markets  represented  approximately  26%  of  MetLife  Financial
Services' individual  life sales  in 2003.  The average  face amount  of a  life
insurance policy sold through the career agency system in 2003 was approximately
$250,000.

     Agents  in the career agency system are full-time MetLife employees who are
compensated primarily with  commissions based  on sales.  As MetLife  employees,
they  also receive certain benefits. Agents in  the career agency system are not
authorized to  sell  other insurers'  products  without MetLife's  approval.  At
December  31, 2003, approximately 95% of the  agents in the career agency system
were licensed  to sell  one or  more of  the following  products: variable  life
insurance, variable annuities and mutual funds.

     From  1999 through 2003, the number of agents under contract in the MetLife
Financial Services  career agency  system  declined from  6,766 to  5,531.  This
decline  was primarily the result of  MetLife Financial Services' more stringent
standards for  recruiting  and  retaining agents,  the  consolidation  of  sales
offices and

                                        6
<PAGE>

modifications  in compensation  practices for its  sales force.  During the same
period, the career agency system increased productivity, with net sales  credits
per  agent, an  industry measure for  agent productivity, growing  at a compound
annual rate of 3%.

     New England  Financial  general agency  system.   New  England  Financial's
general  agency  system  targets  high net-worth  individuals,  owners  of small
businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies. The average  face
amount of a life insurance policy sold through the New England Financial general
agency system in 2003 was approximately $410,000.

     At  December  31, 2003,  New England  Financial's  sales force  included 71
general agencies providing support to 2,845 agents and a network of  independent
brokers  throughout  the U.S.  The compensation  of  agents who  are independent
contractors and general  agents who  have exclusive contracts  with New  England
Financial  is based on sales, although general  agents are also provided with an
allowance for benefits and other  expenses. At December 31, 2003,  approximately
90%  of New England Financial's agents were licensed  to sell one or more of the
following products:  variable  life  insurance, variable  annuities  and  mutual
funds.

     GenAmerica   Financial  independent  general  agency  system.    GenAmerica
Financial markets a portfolio of  individual life insurance, annuity  contracts,
securities,  and related  financial services  to high  net-worth individuals and
small- to medium-sized businesses through multiple distribution channels.  These
distribution  channels include  independent general  agents, financial advisors,
consultants,  brokerage  general  agencies   and  other  independent   marketing
organizations.  The average face amount of  a life insurance policy sold through
the  GenAmerica  Financial  independent  general  agency  system  in  2003   was
approximately $610,000.

     The   GenAmerica  Financial  distribution  channel  sells  universal  life,
variable  universal  life,  and  traditional  life  insurance  products  through
approximately  1,500 independent general agencies  with which it has contractual
arrangements. This reflects a 47% increase in independent general agencies  from
2002  to 2003. There  are 429 independent  general agents who  produced at least
$25,000 in first-year insurance  sales in 2003.  These agents market  GenAmerica
Financial products and are independent contractors who are generally responsible
for  the expenses  of operating  their agencies,  including office  and overhead
expenses, and the recruiting, selection, contracting, training, and  development
of  agents and brokers in their agencies. Recruiting and wholesaling efforts are
directed from a nationwide network of regional offices. GenAmerica Financial  is
actively developing and implementing programs designed to increase the scale and
productivity of its distribution channels.

     In  2003, MetLife Investors  Group's management became  responsible for the
GenAmerica Financial  distribution channel,  building on  its success  in  third
party distribution and taking advantage of its scale and established systems.

     MetLife   Investors  Group.    MetLife   Investors  Group  is  a  wholesale
distribution channel  dedicated  to  the  distribution  of  variable  and  fixed
annuities  and  insurance products  through financial  intermediaries, including
regional broker/dealers,  New York  Stock  Exchange brokerage  firms,  financial
planners  and banks.  For the  year ended  December 31,  2003, MetLife Investors
Group had 472 selling agreements, 411 for regional broker/ dealers and financial
planners, four for  brokerage firms,  56 for  banks and  one for  a third  party
administrator.  As of December  31, 2003, MetLife  Investors Group's sales force
consisted of 86 regional vice presidents, or wholesalers.

     MetLife Investors  Group plans  to continue  growing existing  distribution
relationships  and acquiring new relationships by capitalizing on an experienced
management team, leveraging the MetLife brand and resources, and developing high
service, low-cost operations  while also  adding distribution  of other  MetLife
products.

     Additional  distribution channels:  The  Company distributes its individual
insurance  and  investment  products  through  several  additional  distribution
channels, including Walnut Street Securities, MetLife Resources and Texas Life.

                                        7
<PAGE>

          Walnut  Street Securities.  Walnut Street Securities, Inc., a MetLife,
     Inc. subsidiary, is a  broker/ dealer that markets  mutual funds and  other
     securities,  as  well  as  variable  life  insurance  and  variable annuity
     products, through 1,462 independent registered representatives.

          MetLife Resources.  MetLife Resources, a division of MetLife,  markets
     retirement,  annuity  and  other  financial products  on  a  national basis
     through 401 agents and independent  brokers. MetLife Resources targets  the
     nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.

          Texas Life.  Texas Life Insurance Company, a MetLife, Inc. subsidiary,
     markets  whole life and  universal life insurance  products under the Texas
     Life name through approximately 1,300 active independent insurance brokers.
     These brokers are independent contractors who sell insurance for Texas Life
     on a nonexclusive  basis. A  number of  MetLife career  agents also  market
     Texas  Life products.  Texas Life  sells universal  life insurance policies
     with low cash  values that are  marketed through the  use of brochures,  as
     well as payroll deduction life insurance products.

 PRODUCTS

     The  Company  offers a  wide variety  of individual  insurance, as  well as
annuities and investment-type products aimed at serving its customers' financial
needs throughout their entire life cycle.

 INSURANCE PRODUCTS

     The Company's individual insurance products include variable life products,
universal life products,  traditional life  products, including  whole life  and
term  life, and other  individual products, including  individual disability and
long-term care insurance.

     The Company continually reviews and updates its products. It has introduced
new products  and  features designed  to  increase the  competitiveness  of  its
portfolio  and the flexibility of its products  to meet the broad range of asset
accumulation, life-cycle  protection and  distribution needs  of its  customers.
Some  of  these  updates  have included  new  universal  life  policies, updated
variable universal  life products,  an improved  term insurance  portfolio,  and
enhancements to one of MetLife's whole life products.

     Variable life.  Variable life products provide insurance coverage through a
contract  that  gives the  policyholder flexibility  in investment  choices and,
depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain
guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life products, premiums and  account
balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate accounts
or  directed to  the Company's  general account.  In the  separate accounts, the
policyholder bears the entire risk  of the investment results. MetLife  collects
specified  fees for the management of  these various investment accounts and any
net  return  is  credited  directly  to  the  policyholder's  account.  In  some
instances,  third-party money  management firms manage  investment accounts that
support variable  insurance  products.  With some  products,  by  maintaining  a
certain   premium  level,  policyholders  may  have  the  advantage  of  various
guarantees  that  may  protect  the   death  benefit  from  adverse   investment
experience.

     Universal  life.  Universal life products provide insurance coverage on the
same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated
balances, are  allocated only  to the  MetLife general  account. Universal  life
products  may allow  the insured  to increase  or decrease  the amount  of death
benefit coverage over  the term  of the  contract and  the owner  to adjust  the
frequency  and amount  of premium payments.  The Company credits  premiums to an
account maintained for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of  specified
expenses  and interest,  at interest rates  it determines,  subject to specified
minimums. Specific charges are made  against the policyholder's account for  the
cost   of  insurance  protection  and  for  expenses.  With  some  products,  by
maintaining a certain  premium level,  policyholders may have  the advantage  of
various  guarantees that may  protect the death  benefit from adverse investment
experience.

     Whole life.   Whole life  products provide  a guaranteed  benefit upon  the
death  of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over
a predetermined period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life  of
the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be level or change in
accordance with a predetermined schedule. Whole life insurance includes policies
that provide a participation feature in

                                        8
<PAGE>

the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash or apply them
to  increase death  benefits, increase cash  values available  upon surrender or
reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Because the  use
of  dividends is specified by the  policyholder, this group of products provides
significant flexibility  to individuals  to  tailor the  product to  suit  their
specific  needs and circumstances,  while at the  same time providing guaranteed
benefits.

     Term life.  Term life provides a  guaranteed benefit upon the death of  the
insured  for  a specified  time period  in  return for  the periodic  payment of
premiums. Specified coverage periods range from one year to 20 years, but in  no
event  are  they longer  than the  period  over which  premiums are  paid. Death
benefits may be level over the period or decreasing. Decreasing coverage is used
principally to provide for loan repayment in the event of death. Premiums may be
guaranteed at a level  amount for the  coverage period or  may be non-level  and
non-guaranteed.  Term  insurance  products  are sometimes  referred  to  as pure
protection products,  in  that there  are  typically no  savings  or  investment
elements.  Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period
when the insured party is still living.

     Other individual  products.    Individual  disability  products  provide  a
benefit  in the event of the disability  of the insured. In most instances, this
benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age  65.
In  addition to income replacement,  the product may be  used to provide for the
payment of business overhead expenses  for disabled business owners or  mortgage
payment protection.

     MetLife's  long-term care  insurance provides  a fixed  benefit for certain
costs associated with nursing home care and other services that may be  provided
to individuals unable to perform the activities of daily living.

     In  addition  to these  products, MetLife's  Individual segment  supports a
group of low face amount life insurance policies, known as industrial  policies,
that its agents sold until 1964.

 ANNUITIES AND INVESTMENT PRODUCTS

     The  Company  offers  a  variety  of  individual  annuities  and investment
products, including variable and fixed annuities, mutual funds, and securities.

     Variable annuities.  The Company  offers variable annuities for both  asset
accumulation   and  asset  distribution  needs.  Variable  annuities  allow  the
contractholder to make deposits into various investment accounts, as  determined
by  the contractholder. The investment accounts  are separate accounts and risks
associated with such investments  are borne entirely  by the contractholder.  In
certain  variable annuity products, contractholders  may also choose to allocate
all or a  portion of  their account  to the  Company's general  account and  are
credited  with  interest at  rates the  Company  determines, subject  to certain
minimums. In  addition, contractholders  may also  elect certain  minimum  death
benefit  and minimum living benefit guarantees  for which additional premium and
fees are charged.

     Fixed annuities.  Fixed annuities are used for both asset accumulation  and
asset  distribution  needs. Fixed  annuities do  not  allow the  same investment
flexibility provided by  variable annuities, but  provide guarantees related  to
the  preservation of principal  and interest credited.  Deposits made into these
contracts are allocated to the general account and are credited with interest at
rates the Company  determines, subject  to certain  minimums. Credited  interest
rates  may be  guaranteed not  to change  for certain  limited periods  of time,
ranging from one to ten years.

     Mutual  funds  and  securities.    MetLife  offers  both  proprietary   and
non-proprietary  mutual funds. Proprietary funds  include those offered by State
Street Research &  Management Company. MetLife  also offers investment  accounts
for  mutual funds and  securities that allow  customers to buy,  sell and retain
holdings in one centralized location, as  well as brokerage accounts that  offer
the  accessibility and liquidity  of a money  market mutual fund.  Of the mutual
funds sold by the Company in  2003, approximately $200 million of the  deposited
assets  were  managed by  State Street  Research &  Management Company  and $3.5
billion by third parties.

                                        9
<PAGE>

AUTO & HOME

     Auto & Home, operating through Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
Company and  its  subsidiaries,  offers personal  lines  property  and  casualty
insurance  directly to employees through employer-sponsored programs, as well as
through a  variety  of  retail  distribution  channels,  including  the  MetLife
Financial  Services  career  agency  system,  independent  agents,  Auto  & Home
specialists and  direct response  marketing. Auto  & Home  primarily sells  auto
insurance, which represented 74.1% of Auto & Home's total net premiums earned in
2003,  and homeowners insurance, which represented  24.1% of Auto & Home's total
net  premiums  earned  in  2003.  Auto  insurance  includes  both  standard  and
non-standard  policies. Non-standard policies provide insurance for risks having
higher loss  experience  or  loss  potential  than  risks  covered  by  standard
insurance.

     On  September  30, 1999,  the  Auto &  Home  segment acquired  the standard
personal lines  property  and casualty  insurance  operations of  The  St.  Paul
Companies,  which,  at the  time of  the acquisition,  had in-force  premiums of
approximately $1.1  billion  and  approximately  3,000  independent  agents  and
brokers.  The conversion  of St.  Paul's approximately  one million  policies to
MetLife Auto & Home policies was completed in 2002.

  PRODUCTS

     Auto & Home's insurance products include:

     - auto, including both standard and non-standard private passenger;

     - homeowners, renters, condominium and dwelling; and

     - other personal lines,  including umbrella (protection  against losses  in
       excess  of  amounts  covered  by  other  liability  insurance  policies),
       recreational vehicles and boat owners.

     Auto coverages.   Auto  insurance policies  include coverages  for  private
passenger  automobiles, utility automobiles and  vans, motorcycles, motor homes,
antique or  classic automobiles  and trailers.  Auto &  Home offers  traditional
coverages  such as  liability, uninsured motorist,  no fault  or personal injury
protection and collision and  comprehensive coverages. Auto  & Home also  offers
non-standard  auto insurance, which  accounted for approximately  $96 million in
net premiums earned in 2003. This represents approximately 4% of total auto  net
premiums earned in 2003.

     Homeowners   coverages.    Homeowners  insurance  provides  protection  for
homeowners, renters, condominium owners and residential landlords against losses
arising out of damage to dwellings and  contents from a wide variety of  perils,
as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy.

     Traditional insurance policies for dwellings represent the majority of Auto
&  Home's homeowners  policies providing protection  for loss  on a "replacement
cost" basis. These policies provide  additional coverage for reasonable,  normal
living  expenses incurred  by policyholders who  have been  displaced from their
homes.

  MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

     Personal lines auto and homeowners insurance products are directly marketed
to employees through employer-sponsored programs. Auto & Home products are  also
marketed  and sold by the MetLife  Financial Services career agency sales force,
independent agents,  property  and casualty  specialists  and through  a  direct
response channel.

  EMPLOYER-SPONSORED PROGRAMS

     Auto & Home is a leading provider of employer-sponsored auto and homeowners
products.   Net  premiums  earned  through   Auto  &  Home's  employer-sponsored
distribution channel grew at a compound annual rate of 12.9%, from $562  million
in  1999 to  $913 million  in 2003.  At December  31, 2003,  approximately 1,700
employers offered MetLife Auto & Home products to their employees.

                                        10
<PAGE>

     Institutional marketing representatives market the employer-sponsored  Auto
&  Home  products to  employers  through a  variety  of means,  including broker
referrals and cross-selling  to MetLife  group customers. Once  endorsed by  the
employer,  MetLife commences marketing  efforts to employees.  Employees who are
interested in the  employer-sponsored auto  and homeowners products  can call  a
toll-free  number for a quote, purchase coverage and authorize payroll deduction
over the telephone.  Auto & Home  has also developed  proprietary software  that
permits an employee in most states to obtain a quote for employer-sponsored auto
insurance through Auto & Home's Internet website.

  RETAIL DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS

     MetLife  markets and sells  Auto & Home products  through its career agency
sales force, independent agents and property and casualty specialists. In recent
years, MetLife has  increased its  use of  independent agents  and property  and
casualty specialists to sell these products.

     Independent  agencies.    At  December 31,  2003,  Auto  &  Home maintained
contracts with more than 4,000 agencies and brokers.

     Property and casualty specialists.   Auto & Home  has 437 specialists  that
sell  products in 28 states.  Auto & Home's strategy  is to utilize property and
casualty specialists, who are MetLife employees, in geographic markets that  are
underserved by its career agents.

     MetLife  Financial Services  career agency  system.   The MetLife Financial
Services career agency system has 1,500  agents that sell Auto & Home  insurance
products.  Sales of  Auto &  Home products by  these agents  have been declining
since the early 1990s, due principally to the reduction in the number of  agents
in   the   MetLife   Financial   Services  career   agency   sales   force.  See
"-- Individual -- Marketing and Distribution."

     Other distribution channels.  The  Company also utilizes a direct  response
marketing  channel which permits  sales to be generated  through sources such as
target mailings, career agent referrals and the Internet.

     In 2003, Auto & Home's business  was concentrated in the following  states,
as   measured  by  net  premiums  earned:   New  York  $390  million  or  13.4%,
Massachusetts $348 million or 12.0%, Illinois $219 million or 7.5%,  Connecticut
$143 million or 4.9%, and Minnesota $140 million or 4.8%.

  CLAIMS

     Auto  &  Home's claims  department  includes approximately  2,160 employees
located in  Auto &  Home's Warwick,  Rhode Island  home office,  12 field  claim
offices,  six in-house counsel  offices and drive-in  inspection and other sites
throughout  the  United  States.   These  employees  include  claim   adjusters,
appraisers,  attorneys, managers,  medical specialists,  investigators, customer
service representatives,  claim  financial  analysts and  support  staff.  Claim
adjusters,  representing the  majority of  employees, investigate,  evaluate and
settle over 775,000 claims annually, principally by telephone.

INTERNATIONAL

     International provides  life  insurance,  accident  and  health  insurance,
annuities  and savings and  retirement products to  both individuals and groups,
and auto and homeowners coverage to individuals. The Company focuses on emerging
markets  in  the   geographic  regions  primarily   within  Latin  America   and
Asia/Pacific. The Company operates in international markets through subsidiaries
and joint ventures.

  LATIN AMERICA

     The  Company  operates  in  the  Latin  America  region  in  the  following
countries: Mexico,  Chile,  Brazil, Argentina  and  Uruguay. The  operations  in
Mexico  and Chile represent approximately 94% of  the total premiums and fees in
this region for the year ended December  31, 2003. The Mexican operation is  the
leading  life insurance company  in both the individual  and group businesses in
Mexico. The Chilean operation is the largest annuity company in Chile, based  on
market  share. The Chilean  operation also offers  individual life insurance and
group insurance products.

                                        11
<PAGE>

     ASIA/PACIFIC

     The Company operates in the Asia/Pacific region in the following countries:
South Korea, Taiwan,  Hong Kong, Indonesia  and India. The  operations in  South
Korea  and Taiwan represent approximately 96% of  the total premiums and fees in
this region for  the year ended  December 31, 2003.  The South Korean  operation
offers  individual life insurance, savings and retirement and non-medical health
products, as well as group life and retirement products. The Taiwanese operation
offers individual  life,  accident and  health,  and personal  travel  insurance
products,  as  well  as  group  life and  group  accident  and  health insurance
products. During 2003,  the Company  signed an  agreement with  a joint  venture
partner  in China and anticipates commencing operations during the first quarter
of 2004.

REINSURANCE

     MetLife's Reinsurance segment is comprised of the life reinsurance business
of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA"), a publicly traded company
(NYSE: RGA), and  MetLife's ancillary  life reinsurance  business. MetLife  owns
approximately  52% of  RGA's outstanding common  shares at December  31, 2003 as
compared to approximately 59% at December 31, 2002. This reduction is  primarily
due  to RGA's issuance of  additional common shares in  a public offering during
2003. MetLife purchased approximately 25% of these newly issued shares.

     RGA's operations in North America are its largest and include operations of
its  Canadian  and  U.S.  subsidiaries.  In  addition  to  its  North   American
operations,  RGA  has subsidiary  companies,  branch offices,  or representative
offices in Australia, Barbados, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, Mexico,  South
Africa, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.

     In  addition to its life reinsurance  business, RGA provides reinsurance of
asset-intensive products and financial reinsurance. RGA and its predecessor, the
reinsurance division  of  General  American  Life  Insurance  Company  ("General
American"), have been engaged in the business of life reinsurance since 1973. As
of December 31, 2003, RGA had approximately $12.1 billion in consolidated assets
and worldwide life reinsurance in-force of approximately $1,252 billion.

  RGA'S PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     RGA's  operational segments are segregated  primarily by geographic region:
U.S., Canada, Asia/Pacific, Europe  and South Africa,  and Corporate and  Other.
The  U.S. operations, which represented 68%  of RGA's 2003 net premiums, provide
traditional life, asset-intensive and financial reinsurance to domestic clients.
Traditional life reinsurance involves RGA indemnifying another insurance company
for all or a  portion of the  insurance risk, primarily  mortality risk, it  has
written.   Asset-intensive  products   primarily  include   the  reinsurance  of
corporate-owned life  insurance ("COLI")  and annuities.  Financial  reinsurance
involves  assisting RGA's clients (other  insurance companies) in managing their
regulatory  capital  or  in  achieving  other  financial  goals.  The   Canadian
operations,  which represented 8% of RGA's  2003 net premiums, primarily provide
insurers with  traditional life  reinsurance. The  Asia/Pacific and  Europe  and
South  Africa  operations, which  represented 24%  of  RGA's 2003  net premiums,
provide primarily traditional life  and critical illness  reinsurance and, to  a
lesser extent, financial reinsurance. Traditional life reinsurance pays upon the
death  of the insured and critical illness coverage pays on the earlier of death
or diagnosis of a pre-defined illness.  The Corporate and Other segment  results
include   RGA's  corporate  investment  activity,  general  corporate  expenses,
interest expense,  and the  income  tax provision.  Results related  to  certain
accident  and health business, Argentine privatized pension business, and direct
insurance operations in Argentina are also reported in RGA's Corporate and Other
segment.

ASSET MANAGEMENT

     Asset Management, through  SSRM Holdings, Inc.  ("State Street  Research"),
provides  a broad variety of asset  management products and services to MetLife,
third-party institutions  and individuals.  State Street  Research conducts  its
operations through two subsidiaries, State Street Research & Management Company,
a  full-service investment  management firm,  and SSR  Realty Advisors,  Inc., a
full-service real estate investment

                                        12
<PAGE>

advisor. State  Street Research  offers investment  management services  in  all
major  investment disciplines through multiple  channels of distribution in both
the retail and institutional  marketplaces. At December  31, 2003, State  Street
Research  had assets under management of  $47.5 billion which consisted of fixed
income  investments,  equities,  real  estate  and  money  market   investments,
representing  54%, 34%,  11% and  1%, respectively,  of State  Street Research's
total assets  under management.  Assets  under management  from MetLife  of  $24
billion  are  included in  the total  assets under  management of  $47.5 billion
referred to above.

     State Street  Research has  been  an investment  manager  for many  of  the
largest  U.S. corporate pension plans  for over 30 years.  The majority of State
Street Research's institutional business is concentrated in qualified retirement
funds, including  both defined  benefit and  defined contribution  plans.  State
Street  Research also  provides investment  management services  to foundations,
endowments and union programs. In addition,  State Street Research serves as  an
advisor  for 19 mutual funds  with assets totaling $9.4  billion at December 31,
2003, as well as seven portfolios with assets totaling $7.4 billion at  December
31, 2003, underlying MetLife's variable life and variable annuity products.

     State  Street Research distributes its  investment products to institutions
through its own institutional sales force and pension consultants. State  Street
Research's  mutual  fund  products  are  distributed  primarily  through  retail
brokerage firms (76%  of mutual  fund sales) and  by the  MetLife career  agency
sales  force  (21%  of mutual  fund  sales).  State Street  Research  offers its
products to  the  defined  contribution  market directly,  as  well  as  through
Institutional's defined contribution group.

POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES

     MetLife  establishes,  and carries  as liabilities,  actuarially determined
amounts that are  calculated to meet  its policy obligations  when an  annuitant
takes  income, a  policy matures  or surrenders  or an  insured dies  or becomes
disabled. MetLife computes the amounts for actuarial liabilities reported in its
consolidated financial  statements  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").

     In  establishing these actuarial liabilities, MetLife distinguishes between
short duration and long duration contracts. Short duration contracts arise  from
the group life, group dental and short-term disability businesses. The actuarial
liability for short duration contracts consists of gross unearned premiums as of
the  valuation date and the discounted amount  of the future payments on pending
and approved claims as of the valuation date. Long duration contracts consist of
traditional life, guaranteed renewable term life, non-participating whole  life,
individual  disability, group long-term disability and long-term care contracts.
MetLife determines  actuarial  liabilities  for long  duration  contracts  using
assumptions based on current experience, plus a margin for adverse deviation for
these  policies. Where they exist, MetLife amortizes deferred policy acquisition
costs ("DAC"), including value of business acquired ("VOBA"), in relation to the
associated gross margins, profits or premium.

     MetLife  also  distinguishes  between  investment  contracts,  limited  pay
contracts and universal life-type contracts. The actuarial liabilities for these
products  primarily consist of policyholders' account balances. The Company also
establishes actuarial liabilities  for future policy  benefits (associated  with
base  policies  and riders,  unearned  mortality charges  and  future disability
benefits), for other policyholder funds  (associated with unearned revenues  and
claims  payable) and for unearned revenue  (the unamortized portion of front-end
loads charged). Investment contracts primarily consist of individual annuity and
certain group pension contracts that have limited or no mortality risk.  MetLife
amortizes DAC on these contracts in relation to estimated gross profits. Limited
pay contracts primarily consist of single premium immediate individual and group
pension  annuities. For limited pay contracts,  the Company defers the excess of
the gross premium over the net premium and recognizes such excess into income in
relation to anticipated future  benefit payments. Universal life-type  contracts
consist  of universal and variable life contracts. The Company amortizes DAC for
limited pay  and universal  life-type contracts  using the  product's  estimated
gross  profits. For universal life-type  contracts with front-end loads, MetLife
defers the  charge  and  amortizes  the unearned  revenue  using  the  product's
estimated gross profits.

                                        13
<PAGE>

     The liability for future policy benefits for participating traditional life
insurance is the net level reserve using the policy's guaranteed mortality rates
and  the  dividend  fund  interest  rate  or  nonforfeiture  interest  rate,  as
applicable. MetLife amortizes DAC in  relation to the product's estimated  gross
margins.

     The  Auto & Home  segment establishes actuarial  liabilities to account for
the estimated ultimate costs of losses  and loss adjustment expenses for  claims
that  have  been reported  but  not yet  settled,  and claims  incurred  but not
reported. It bases unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses on:

     - case estimates for losses  reported on direct  business, adjusted in  the
       aggregate for ultimate loss expectations;

     - estimates of incurred but not reported losses based upon past experience;

     - estimates  of  losses  on insurance  assumed  primarily  from involuntary
       market mechanisms; and

     - estimates of future expenses to be incurred in settlement of claims.

     For the Auto & Home segment,  MetLife deducts estimated amounts of  salvage
and subrogation from unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses. Implicit in all
these  estimates  are underlying  assumptions about  rates of  inflation because
MetLife determines  all estimates  using expected  amounts to  be paid.  MetLife
derives  estimates for the  development of reported claims  and for incurred but
not reported claims principally from  actuarial analyses of historical  patterns
of  claims and claims development for  each line of business. Similarly, MetLife
derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from  actuarial
analyses  of  historical  development  patterns  of  the  relationship  of  loss
adjustment expenses to  losses for  each line of  business. MetLife  anticipates
ultimate  recoveries from  salvage and subrogation  principally on  the basis of
historical recovery patterns.

     Pursuant  to  state  insurance   laws,  MetLife's  insurance   subsidiaries
establish statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their obligations
on  their  respective  policies.  These statutory  reserves  are  established in
amounts sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken  together
with  expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves
generally  differ  from  actuarial   liabilities  for  future  policy   benefits
determined using GAAP.

     The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain MetLife entities
to  submit to the New York Superintendent  of Insurance or other state insurance
departments, with each annual report, an opinion and memorandum of a  "qualified
actuary"  that the statutory reserves and  related actuarial amounts recorded in
support of  specified policies  and contracts,  and the  assets supporting  such
statutory  reserves and related  actuarial amounts, make  adequate provision for
their  statutory   liabilities   with   respect  to   these   obligations.   See
"--   Regulation  --  Insurance  Regulation   --  Policy  and  contract  reserve
sufficiency analysis."

     Due to  the  nature  of  the  underlying  risks  and  the  high  degree  of
uncertainty  associated  with the  determination  of its  actuarial liabilities,
MetLife cannot precisely determine the amounts that it will ultimately pay  with
respect  to these actuarial liabilities, and  the ultimate amounts may vary from
the estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur until well  into
the  future. Furthermore,  the Company has  experienced, and will  likely in the
future experience, catastrophe losses  and possibly acts  of terrorism that  may
have  an adverse  impact on  its business,  results of  operations and financial
condition. Catastrophes can be caused  by various events, including  hurricanes,
windstorms,  earthquakes,  hail,  tornadoes, explosions,  severe  winter weather
(including snow, freezing  water, ice storms  and blizzards) and  fires. Due  to
their  nature, the Company cannot predict  the incidence, timing and severity of
catastrophes and  acts  of  terrorism,  but  the  Company  makes  broad  use  of
catastrophic  and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk from these perils.
However, MetLife  believes its  actuarial liabilities  for future  benefits  are
adequate  to  cover  the  ultimate benefits.  MetLife  periodically  reviews its
estimates of actuarial liabilities  for future benefits  and compares them  with
its  actual experience. It revises estimates, when appropriate, if it determines
that future expected experience differs from assumptions used in the development
of actuarial liabilities.

                                        14
<PAGE>

UNDERWRITING AND PRICING

  INSTITUTIONAL AND INDIVIDUAL

     The Company's underwriting  for the Institutional  and Individual  segments
involves  an evaluation of applications for life, disability, dental, retirement
and  savings,  and  long-term  care   insurance  products  and  services  by   a
professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the
amount  of  risk that  the Company  is  willing to  accept. The  Company employs
detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the
underwriter to properly  assess and  quantify risks before  issuing policies  to
qualified applicants or groups.

     Individual  underwriting considers not only an applicant's medical history,
but also other factors such as financial profiles, foreign travel, vocations and
alcohol, drug  and  tobacco  use. The  Company's  group  underwriters  generally
evaluate  the risk characteristics  of each prospective  insured group, although
with certain voluntary products, employees may be underwritten on an  individual
basis.  Generally, the Company is  not obligated to accept  any risk or group of
risks from,  or to  issue a  policy or  group of  policies to,  any employer  or
intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and generally a
policy  is not issued unless the particular  risk or group has been examined and
approved for  underwriting.  Underwriting is  generally  done by  the  Company's
employees,  although some policies  are reviewed by  intermediaries under strict
guidelines established by the Company.

     In  order  to   maintain  high  standards   of  underwriting  quality   and
consistency,  the Company  engages in  a multilevel  series of  ongoing internal
underwriting audits, and  is subject to  external audits by  its reinsurers,  at
both its remote underwriting offices and its corporate underwriting office.

     The  Company  has established  senior level  oversight of  the underwriting
process that facilitates quality sales and  serving the needs of its  customers,
while  supporting its financial strength  and business objectives. The Company's
goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in
the assumptions in its product pricing. This is accomplished by determining  and
establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that
are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and the Company.

     Pricing   for  the  Institutional  and  Individual  segments  reflects  the
Company's  insurance  underwriting  standards.  Product  pricing  of   insurance
products  is based on the expected payout of benefits calculated through the use
of assumptions for  mortality, morbidity, expenses,  persistency and  investment
returns,  as well as  certain macroeconomic factors,  such as inflation. Product
specifications are  designed to  mitigate  the risks  of greater  than  expected
mortality,  and  the  Company  periodically  monitors  mortality  and  morbidity
assumptions. Investment-oriented products are  priced based on various  factors,
which may include investment return, expenses, persistency, and optionality.

     Unique to the Institutional segment's pricing is experience rating. MetLife
employs  both  prospective  and  retrospective  experience  rating.  Prospective
experience rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose  of
determining  future premium rates. Retrospective  experience rating involves the
evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost  of
providing insurance for the customer for the period of time in question.

     MetLife continually reviews its underwriting and pricing guidelines so that
its  policies remain competitive and supportive  of its marketing strategies and
profitability goals. Decisions  are based on  established actuarial pricing  and
risk  selection  principles to  ensure that  MetLife's underwriting  and pricing
guidelines are appropriate.

  REINSURANCE

     Reinsurance is written on a facultative basis or an automatic treaty basis.
Facultative reinsurance is individually underwritten  by the reinsurer for  each
policy   to  be  reinsured.  Factors   considered  in  underwriting  facultative
reinsurance are medical history, impairments, employment, hobbies and  financial
information.  An automatic reinsurance treaty provides  that risks will be ceded
on specified blocks of  business where the underlying  policies meet the  ceding
company's  underwriting criteria.  In contrast  to facultative  reinsurance, the

                                        15
<PAGE>

reinsurer does not approve each individual risk. Automatic reinsurance  treaties
generally  provide that the reinsurer  will be liable for  a portion of the risk
associated with  specified  policies  written by  the  ceding  company.  Factors
considered in underwriting automatic reinsurance are the product's underwriting,
pricing, distribution and optionality, as well as the ceding company's retention
and financial strength.

  AUTO & HOME

     Auto & Home's underwriting function has six principal aspects:

     - evaluating potential worksite marketing employer accounts and independent
       agencies;

     - establishing  guidelines for the binding of  risks by agents with binding
       authority;

     - reviewing coverage bound by agents;

     - on a case  by case  basis, underwriting potential  insureds presented  by
       agents outside the scope of their binding authority;

     - pursuing  information necessary in certain cases to enable Auto & Home to
       issue a policy within the Company's guidelines; and

     - ensuring  that  renewal  policies  continue   to  be  written  at   rates
       commensurate with risk.

     Subject   to  very  few  exceptions,  agents  in  each  of  Auto  &  Home's
distribution channels,  as  well as  in  MetLife's Institutional  segment,  have
binding   authority  for  risks  which  fall  within  Auto  &  Home's  published
underwriting guidelines. Risks falling  outside the underwriting guidelines  may
be  submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents
in such a situation may call the underwriting department to obtain authorization
to bind the risk themselves. In most states, Auto & Home generally has the right
within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy.

     Auto & Home establishes  prices for its major  lines of insurance based  on
its  proprietary database,  rather than relying  on rating bureaus.  Auto & Home
determines prices in part from a number of variables specific to each risk.  The
pricing  of personal  lines insurance products  takes into  account, among other
things, the expected frequency  and severity of losses,  the costs of  providing
coverage  (including  the  costs of  acquiring  policyholders  and administering
policy benefits  and  other  administrative  and  overhead  costs),  competitive
factors and profit considerations.

     The major pricing variables for personal lines automobile insurance include
characteristics  of  the  automobile  itself,  such  as  age,  make  and  model,
characteristics of  insureds, such  as driving  record and  experience, and  the
insured's personal financial management. Auto & Home's ability to set and change
rates is subject to regulatory oversight.

     As  a condition of MetLife's  license to do business  in each state, Auto &
Home, like all other automobile insurers, is required to write or share the cost
of private passenger automobile insurance for higher risk individuals who  would
otherwise  be unable to  obtain such insurance.  This "involuntary" market, also
called the "shared market," is governed  by the applicable laws and  regulations
of  each state,  and policies  written in this  market are  generally written at
rates higher than standard rates.

REINSURANCE ACTIVITY

     MetLife cedes  premiums to  other insurers  under various  agreements  that
cover  individual  risks,  group  risks  or defined  blocks  of  business,  on a
coinsurance, yearly renewable  term, excess or  catastrophe excess basis.  These
reinsurance  agreements spread the  risk and minimize the  effect of losses. The
amount of  each  risk retained  by  MetLife depends  on  its evaluation  of  the
specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum limits based on the
characteristics  of  coverages. The  Company also  reinsures low  mortality risk
reinsurance  treaties  with  other   reinsurance  companies.  It  also   obtains
reinsurance  when capital requirements and the economic terms of the reinsurance
make it appropriate to do so.

                                        16
<PAGE>

     Under the  terms of  the reinsurance  agreements, the  reinsurer agrees  to
reimburse  MetLife for the ceded amount in the event the claim is paid. However,
MetLife remains liable to its policyholders  with respect to ceded insurance  if
any  reinsurer fails to meet  the obligations assumed by  it. Since it bears the
risk of nonpayment by one or  more of its reinsurers, MetLife cedes  reinsurance
to well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers.

  INDIVIDUAL

     MetLife  currently reinsures up  to 90% of  the mortality risk  for all new
individual life insurance policies that it writes through its various  insurance
companies.  This  practice  was  initiated for  different  products  starting at
various points in  time between  1992 and 2000.  In addition,  in 1998,  MetLife
reinsured most of the mortality risk on its universal life policies issued since
1983.

     In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, MetLife reinsures other risks and
specific  coverages. The Company routinely reinsures certain classes of risks in
order to  limit  its  exposure  to particular  travel,  vocation  and  lifestyle
hazards.  MetLife's retention limits per life vary by franchise and according to
the characteristics of the particular risks.

     MetLife reinsures its business through  a diversified group of  reinsurers.
Placement  of reinsurance is done primarily on  an automatic basis and also on a
facultative basis for risks with specific characteristics.

  AUTO & HOME

     Auto &  Home purchases  reinsurance to  control the  Company's exposure  to
large  losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect surplus. Auto & Home
cedes to reinsurers a portion of risks and pays premiums based upon the risk and
exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance.

     To control the Company's  exposure to large  property and casualty  losses,
Auto  &  Home utilizes  property catastrophe,  casualty,  and property  per risk
excess loss agreements.

REGULATION

  INSURANCE REGULATION

     Metropolitan Life is  licensed to  transact insurance business  in, and  is
subject  to  regulation  and supervision  by,  all  50 states,  the  District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico,  the U.S. Virgin  Islands and Canada.  Each of  MetLife's
other  insurance  subsidiaries  is  licensed  and  regulated  in  all  U.S.  and
international jurisdictions where it conducts insurance business. The extent  of
such  regulation  varies,  but  most  jurisdictions  have  laws  and regulations
governing the financial  aspects of insurers,  including standards of  solvency,
reserves,  reinsurance  and  capital  adequacy,  and  the  business  conduct  of
insurers. In addition, statutes and regulations usually require the licensing of
insurers and their agents,  the approval of policy  forms and related  materials
and,  for certain lines of  insurance, the approval of  rates. Such statutes and
regulations also prescribe the permitted types and concentration of investments.

     The New York Insurance Law limits  the sales commissions and certain  other
marketing  expenses that  may be  incurred in connection  with the  sale of life
insurance policies and annuity  contracts. MetLife's insurance subsidiaries  are
each  required to  file reports,  generally including  detailed annual financial
statements, with insurance regulatory authorities  in each of the  jurisdictions
in  which they  do business,  and their operations  and accounts  are subject to
periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and
in many jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance obtain regulatory  approval
for,   rules,  rates  and  forms  relating  to  the  insurance  written  in  the
jurisdictions in which they operate.

     The  National   Association  of   Insurance  Commissioners   ("NAIC")   has
established   a  program  of  accrediting   state  insurance  departments.  NAIC
accreditation permits  accredited states  to  conduct periodic  examinations  of
insurers  domiciled  in  such  states. NAIC-accredited  states  will  not accept
reports of  examination  of  insurers from  unaccredited  states,  except  under
limited  circumstances. As a  direct result, insurers  domiciled in unaccredited
states may be  subject to financial  examination by accredited  states in  which

                                        17
<PAGE>

they   are  licensed,  in  addition  to  any  examinations  conducted  by  their
domiciliary states.  The  New  York  Insurance  Department  (the  "Department"),
Metropolitan   Life's  principal  insurance  regulator,  has  not  received  its
accreditation as a result of the New York legislature's failure to adopt certain
model NAIC laws. The Company does not believe that this will have a  significant
impact upon its ability to conduct its insurance businesses.

     State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other
state  law enforcement  agencies and  attorneys general  from time  to time make
inquiries  regarding  compliance  by   MetLife's  insurance  subsidiaries   with
insurance,  securities and other  laws and regulations  regarding the conduct of
MetLife's insurance  and securities  businesses.  MetLife cooperates  with  such
inquiries and takes corrective action when warranted.

     Holding  Company  regulation.    The  Holding  Company  and  its  insurance
subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company  laws
of  various jurisdictions.  The insurance  holding company  laws and regulations
vary from  jurisdiction  to jurisdiction,  but  generally require  a  controlled
insurance   company  (insurers  that  are   subsidiaries  of  insurance  holding
companies) to register with state regulatory authorities and to file with  those
authorities  certain  reports,  including information  concerning  their capital
structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and
general business operations.

     State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and  limitations
on  the amount of dividends or  other distributions payable by insurance company
subsidiaries to their parent  companies, as well as  on transactions between  an
insurer  and  its  affiliates.  See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of
Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  --  Liquidity  and   Capital
Resources  --  The  Holding  Company."  The  New  York  Insurance  Law  and  the
regulations  thereunder  also  restrict  the  aggregate  amount  of  investments
Metropolitan  Life may make in non-life  insurance subsidiaries, and provide for
detailed periodic reporting on subsidiaries.

     Guaranty associations and similar arrangements.  Most of the  jurisdictions
in  which  MetLife's insurance  subsidiaries are  admitted to  transact business
require life  and  property and  casualty  insurers doing  business  within  the
jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
contractual  benefits owed  pursuant to  insurance policies  issued by impaired,
insolvent or  failed  insurers.  These  associations  levy  assessments,  up  to
prescribed  limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of
the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the  lines
of  business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some
states permit  member  insurers to  recover  assessments paid  through  full  or
partial premium tax offsets.

     In  the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife's
insurance subsidiaries have not  been material. While the  amount and timing  of
future  assessments are not predictable, the Company has established liabilities
for guaranty fund assessments  that it considers  adequate for assessments  with
respect  to insurers that  are currently subject  to insolvency proceedings. See
"Management's Discussion  and Analysis  of Financial  Condition and  Results  of
Operations -- Insolvency Assessments."

     Statutory  insurance examination.   As  part of  their regulatory oversight
process, state insurance departments  conduct periodic detailed examinations  of
the  books, records, accounts,  and business practices  of insurers domiciled in
their states.  On March  1, 2000,  the Department  completed an  examination  of
Metropolitan  Life for each of  the five years in  the period ended December 31,
1998  which  included  recommendations  for  certain  changes  in  recordkeeping
processes,  but  did not  result  in a  fine.  For the  three-year  period ended
December 31, 2003, MetLife, Inc. has not received any material adverse  findings
resulting   from  state  insurance  department  examinations  of  its  insurance
subsidiaries.

     Regulatory  authorities  in  a  small  number  of  states  have   conducted
investigations  or inquiries relating  to Metropolitan Life's,  New England Life
Insurance  Company's  ("New  England  Life")  or  General  American's  sales  of
individual  life insurance policies  or annuities. Over  the past several years,
these and other investigations by  various regulatory authorities were  resolved
by  monetary  payments and  certain other  relief. The  Company may  continue to
resolve investigations in a similar manner.

                                        18
<PAGE>

     Policy  and  contract reserve  sufficiency analysis.    Under the  New York
Insurance Law, Metropolitan Life is required to conduct annually an analysis  of
the sufficiency of all life and health insurance and annuity statutory reserves.
Additionally,   other  life   insurance  affiliates   are  subject   to  similar
requirements in their states of domicile. In each case, a qualified actuary must
submit an opinion which states that  the statutory reserves, when considered  in
light of the assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient
provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the
insurer.  If  such  an opinion  cannot  be  provided, the  insurer  must  set up
additional reserves  by  moving funds  from  surplus. Since  inception  of  this
requirement,  Metropolitan Life and all other insurance subsidiaries required by
other jurisdictions  to  provide similar  opinions  have provided  them  without
qualifications.

     Surplus and capital.  The New York Insurance Law requires New York domestic
stock  life  insurers  to  maintain  minimum  capital.  At  December  31,  2003,
Metropolitan Life's capital was  in excess of such  required minimum. Since  its
demutualization,   Metropolitan  Life  has   continued  to  offer  participating
policies. Metropolitan Life is subject  to statutory restrictions that limit  to
10%  the amount of statutory profits on participating policies written after the
demutualization (measured before dividends to  policyholders) that can inure  to
the  benefit of  stockholders. Since  the demutualization,  the impact  of these
restrictions on net income has not been, and Metropolitan Life believes that  in
the future it will not be, significant.

     MetLife's U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to the supervision of the
regulators in each jurisdiction in which they are licensed to transact business.
Regulators  have  discretionary  authority,  in  connection  with  the continued
licensing of  these  insurance  subsidiaries,  to limit  or  prohibit  sales  to
policyholders  if, in their judgment, the regulators determine that such insurer
has  not  maintained  the  minimum  surplus  or  capital  or  that  the  further
transaction  of business will be hazardous  to policyholders. See "-- Risk-based
capital."

     Risk-based capital ("RBC").  The New  York Insurance Law requires that  New
York  domestic life insurers report  their RBC based on  a formula calculated by
applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items;  similar
rules  apply  to  each  of the  Holding  Company's  U.S.  insurance subsidiaries
domiciled in  other  jurisdictions. The  formula  takes into  account  the  risk
characteristics  of the insurer, including  asset risk, insurance risk, interest
rate risk and business risk. The Department uses the formula as an early warning
regulatory tool  to  identify  possible inadequately  capitalized  insurers  for
purposes  of initiating regulatory action,  and not as a  means to rank insurers
generally. The New York Insurance Law imposes broad confidentiality requirements
on those engaged in the insurance business (including insurers, agents,  brokers
and others) and on the Department as to the use and publication of RBC data.

     The  New York Insurance Law gives  the New York Superintendent of Insurance
explicit regulatory authority  to require  various actions by,  or take  various
actions  against, insurers whose total adjusted  capital does not exceed certain
RBC levels. At December 31, 2003, Metropolitan Life's total adjusted capital was
in excess of each of those RBC levels.

     Each of the  U.S. insurance  subsidiaries of  the Holding  Company is  also
subject  to certain RBC  requirements. At December 31,  2003, the total adjusted
capital of each of these  insurance subsidiaries also was  in excess of each  of
those  RBC  levels.  See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of Financial
Condition and Results of  Operations -- Liquidity and  Capital Resources --  The
Holding Company -- Liquidity Uses -- Support Agreements."

     The  NAIC adopted the Codification  of Statutory Accounting Principles (the
"Codification") which  is  intended  to standardize  regulatory  accounting  and
reporting  to state insurance departments and  became effective January 1, 2001.
However,  statutory  accounting  principles   continue  to  be  established   by
individual  state laws and permitted practices. The Department required adoption
of  the  Codification,  with  certain  modifications,  for  the  preparation  of
statutory financial statements effective January 1, 2001. Effective December 31,
2002,  the Department adopted a modification to its regulations to be consistent
with the Codification with respect to the admissibility of deferred income taxes
by New  York insurers,  subject  to certain  limitations.  The adoption  of  the
Codification   as  modified  by   the  Department,  did   not  adversely  affect
Metropolitan Life's  statutory capital  and  surplus. Further  modifications  by
state  insurance departments  may impact the  effect of the  Codification on the
statutory capital and  surplus of  Metropolitan Life and  the Holding  Company's
other insurance subsidiaries.
                                        19
<PAGE>

     Regulation of  investments.    Each  of  the  Holding  Company's  insurance
subsidiaries   is   subject  to   state  laws   and  regulations   that  require
diversification of its investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments
in certain  asset  categories,  such  as below  investment  grade  fixed  income
securities,  equity  real  estate, other  equity  investments,  and derivatives.
Failure to  comply  with these  laws  and regulations  would  cause  investments
exceeding  regulatory  limitations  to  be treated  as  non-admitted  assets for
purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require divestiture
of such non-qualifying  investments. The Company  believes that the  investments
made  by each  of its insurance  subsidiaries complied with  such regulations at
December 31, 2003.

     Federal initiatives.   Although the federal  government generally does  not
directly  regulate  the insurance  business, federal  initiatives often  have an
impact on the business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures
are proposed which  may significantly affect  the insurance business,  including
the repeal of the federal estate tax, tax benefits associated with COLI, and the
creation  of  tax advantaged  or tax  exempt savings  accounts that  would favor
short-term savings  over  long-term  savings.  In  addition,  a  bill  reforming
asbestos  litigation may be voted  on by the Senate  in 2004. The Company cannot
predict whether these initiatives will be  adopted as proposed, or what  impact,
if  any, such proposals may have on the Company's business, results of operation
or financial condition.

     Legislative Developments.  On May 28, 2003, President Bush signed into  law
the  Jobs and  Growth Tax  Relief Reconciliation Act  of 2003,  which includes a
major reduction  in rates  for long  term capital  gains and  cash dividends  on
equity  securities. It is unclear what the effect of this tax rate reduction may
have on the  demand for products  which do  not benefit from  such measures.  In
2001,  President Bush  signed into law  the Economic Growth  and Taxpayer Relief
Reconciliation Act, which includes the repeal  of the federal estate tax over  a
10-year  period. The Company believes that the  repeal of the federal estate tax
has resulted in reduced sales and could continue to impact sales of some of  the
Company's  estate planning  products, including survivorship/second  to die life
insurance policies; however, the  Company does not expect  the repeal to have  a
material adverse impact on its overall business.

     Management   cannot  predict  what  other   proposals  may  be  made,  what
legislation may be introduced or enacted  or the impact of any such  legislation
on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.

  BROKER/DEALER AND SECURITIES REGULATION

     Some  of MetLife,  Inc.'s subsidiaries  and certain  policies and contracts
offered by them, are subject to  various levels of regulation under the  federal
securities  laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some of
MetLife, Inc.'s  subsidiaries  are  investment  advisers  registered  under  the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. In addition, some separate accounts
and a variety of mutual funds are registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940,  as amended. Some  annuity contracts and insurance  policies issued by the
Company are funded by separate accounts,  the interests in which are  registered
under  the  Securities  Act  of  1933,  as  amended.  Some  of  MetLife,  Inc.'s
subsidiaries are registered as broker/dealers under the Securities Exchange  Act
of  1934, as amended, and are members  of the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc.  ("NASD").  These  broker/dealers may  also  be  registered  under
various state securities laws.

     Some  of MetLife, Inc.'s  subsidiaries also have  certain pooled investment
vehicles that are  exempt from  registration under  the Securities  Act and  the
Investment  Company Act, but may be subject  to certain other provisions of such
acts.

     Federal and state securities regulatory authorities from time to time  make
inquiries  regarding  compliance  by  MetLife, Inc.  and  its  subsidiaries with
securities and  other  laws  and  regulations regarding  the  conduct  of  their
securities   businesses.  MetLife  cooperates  with  such  inquiries  and  takes
corrective action when warranted.

     These laws and regulations are  primarily intended to protect investors  in
the   securities  markets   and  generally  grant   supervisory  agencies  broad
administrative powers, including the power to  limit or restrict the conduct  of
business  for failure to comply with such  laws and regulations. The Company may
also be subject to

                                        20
<PAGE>

similar laws and  regulations in the  states and foreign  countries in which  it
provides  investment advisory services,  offers the products  described above or
conducts other securities-related activities.

  ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

     As an  owner and  operator of  real  property, the  Company is  subject  to
extensive  federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Inherent
in such ownership and  operation is also  the risk that  there may be  potential
environmental  liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation
of such properties. In addition, the Company holds equity interests in companies
that could  potentially be  subject to  environmental liabilities.  The  Company
routinely  has environmental assessments  performed with respect  to real estate
being  acquired  for  investment  and  real  property  to  be  acquired  through
foreclosure.  The Company cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental
liabilities will not arise. However, based on information currently available to
management, management believes that any  costs associated with compliance  with
environmental  laws and regulations  or any remediation  of such properties will
not have  a  material adverse  effect  on  the Company's  business,  results  of
operations or financial condition.

  ERISA CONSIDERATIONS

     The  Company  provides products  and services  to certain  employee benefit
plans that are subject to the  Employee Retirement Income Security Act of  1974,
as  amended ("ERISA"),  or the  Internal Revenue Code  of 1986,  as amended (the
"Code"). As such,  its activities  are subject  to the  restrictions imposed  by
ERISA  and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
perform their duties  solely in  the interests  of ERISA  plan participants  and
beneficiaries  and the requirement under ERISA and the Code that fiduciaries may
not cause a covered plan to  engage in prohibited transactions with persons  who
have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions
of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the Department of Labor, the
Internal Revenue Service and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.

     In  John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance  Company v. Harris Trust and Savings
Bank (1993),  the U.S.  Supreme Court  held  that certain  assets in  excess  of
amounts  necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a participating group
annuity general account contract are "plan assets." Therefore, these assets  are
subject to certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries
to  perform their duties solely  in the interest of  ERISA plan participants and
beneficiaries.  On  January  5,  2000,  the  Secretary  of  Labor  issued  final
regulations  indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed by
the insurer's general account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent  to
which assets of the insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the
Code.  The regulations apply only with respect  to a policy issued by an insurer
on or before December 31, 1998  ("Transition Policy"). No person will  generally
be  liable under ERISA or the Code for  conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001,
where the basis  of a  claim is that  insurance company  general account  assets
constitute  plan assets. An insurer  issuing a new policy  that is backed by its
general account and is issued to or for an employee benefit plan after  December
31,  1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA, unless
the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.

     The regulations indicate the requirements that  must be met so that  assets
supporting  a Transition Policy will not  be considered plan assets for purposes
of ERISA and  the Code. These  requirements include detailed  disclosures to  be
made  to the employee  benefits plan and  the requirement that  the insurer must
permit the policyholder  to terminate the  policy on 90  day notice and  receive
without  penalty,  at  the  policyholder's option,  either  (i)  the unallocated
accumulated fund balance (which  may be subject to  market value adjustment)  or
(ii)  a book value payment of such  amount in annual installments with interest.
The Company has taken and continues to take steps designed to ensure  compliance
with these regulations, as appropriate.

  FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION

     Regulatory   agencies.     In   connection  with   its  acquisition   of  a
federally-chartered commercial bank, the Holding  Company became a bank  holding
company and financial holding company on February 28, 2001. As such, the Holding
Company  is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as

                                        21
<PAGE>

amended  (the "BHC Act"), and to inspection, examination, and supervision by the
Board of Governors of the Federal  Reserve System (the "FRB"). In addition,  the
Holding  Company's banking subsidiary  is subject to  regulation and examination
primarily by  the  Office  of  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  ("OCC")  and
secondarily by the FRB and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

     Financial  Holding  Company Activities.   As  a financial  holding company,
MetLife, Inc.'s activities  and investments are  restricted by the  BHC Act,  as
amended by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the "GLB Act"), to those that are
"financial"  in  nature or  "incidental"  or "complementary"  to  such financial
activities.  Activities  that  are   financial  in  nature  include   securities
underwriting,  dealing and market making, sponsoring mutual funds and investment
companies, insurance underwriting  and agency, merchant  banking and  activities
that the FRB has determined to be closely related to banking. In addition, under
the  insurance company investment portfolio provision  of the GLB Act, financial
holding companies  are authorized  to make  investments in  other financial  and
non-financial  companies, through their insurance  subsidiaries, that are in the
ordinary course of business and in accordance with state insurance law, provided
the financial  holding  company  does  not  routinely  manage  or  operate  such
companies  except  as  may  be  necessary  to  obtain  a  reasonable  return  on
investment.

     Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and  Financial
Holding  Companies  --  Capital.    MetLife,  Inc.  and  its  insured depository
institution subsidiary, MetLife  Bank, N.A. ("MetLife  Bank"), a national  bank,
are  subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal
banking regulatory  agencies  for banks  and  financial holding  companies.  The
federal  banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt
corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital
standards. At  December  31,  2003,  MetLife, Inc.  and  MetLife  Bank  were  in
compliance with the aforementioned guidelines.

     Other  Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial
Holding Companies -- Consumer Protection Laws.  Numerous other federal and state
laws  also  affect  the  Holding  Company's  and  MetLife  Bank's  earnings  and
activities,  including federal and  state consumer protection  laws. The GLB Act
included  consumer  privacy  provisions   that,  among  other  things,   require
disclosure  of  a  financial  institution's  privacy  policy  to  customers.  In
addition, these  provisions  permit  states  to  adopt  more  extensive  privacy
protections through legislation or regulation.

     Other  Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and Financial
Holding Companies -- Change of Control.   Because MetLife, Inc. is a  "financial
holding  company" and "bank holding company"  under the federal banking laws, no
person may acquire control  of MetLife, Inc. without  the prior approval of  the
FRB.  A change of control  is conclusively presumed upon  acquisitions of 25% or
more of any class of voting securities and rebuttably presumed upon acquisitions
of 10%  or more  of any  class of  voting securities.  Further, as  a result  of
MetLife,  Inc.'s  ownership of  MetLife  Bank, approval  from  the OCC  would be
required in connection  with a change  of control (generally  presumed upon  the
acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities) of MetLife, Inc.

COMPETITION

     The  Company believes that competition with  its business segments is based
on a  number of  factors,  including service,  product features,  scale,  price,
commission structure, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
ebusiness  capabilities and name recognition. It competes with a large number of
other insurers, as well as  non-insurance financial services companies, such  as
banks, broker/dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and
other  group  customers  and  agents and  other  distributors  of  insurance and
investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of  products,
have  more competitive pricing  or, with respect to  other insurers, have higher
claims paying ability ratings.  Some may also  have greater financial  resources
with  which to compete. National banks, which  may sell annuity products of life
insurers in  some  circumstances,  also have  pre-existing  customer  bases  for
financial services products.

     In  1999, the GLB Act was  adopted, implementing fundamental changes in the
regulation of the financial  services industry in the  U.S. With the passage  of
this  Act, among other things, bank  holding companies may acquire insurers, and
insurance holding companies may acquire banks. The ability of banks to affiliate
with
                                        22
<PAGE>

insurers  may materially adversely affect all  of the Company's product lines by
substantially increasing the  number, size and  financial strength of  potential
competitors.

     The  Company must  attract and  retain productive  sales representatives to
sell its insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong competition exists
among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. The  Company
competes with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of
its  financial position, support services and compensation and product features.
See  "--  Individual  --  Marketing  and  Distribution."  MetLife  continues  to
undertake  several  initiatives to  grow the  MetLife Financial  Services career
agency force while continuing  to enhance the efficiency  and production of  the
existing   sales  force.  The  Company   cannot  provide  assurance  that  these
initiatives will  succeed  in attracting  and  retaining new  agents.  Sales  of
individual  insurance,  annuities  and  investment  products  and  the Company's
results of  operations  and financial  position  could be  materially  adversely
affected if it is unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents.

     Many of the Company's insurance products, particularly those offered by its
Institutional  segment, are underwritten annually,  and, accordingly, there is a
risk that  group purchasers  may be  able to  obtain more  favorable terms  from
competitors  rather  than  renewing coverage  with  the Company.  The  effect of
competition may, as  a result,  adversely affect  the persistency  of these  and
other products, as well as the Company's ability to sell products in the future.

     The   investment  management  and   securities  brokerage  businesses  have
relatively few barriers to entry and  continually attract new entrants. Many  of
the  Company's  competitors  in  these  businesses  offer  a  broader  array  of
investment products and  services and  are better known  than it  as sellers  of
annuities and other investment products.

     Congress periodically considers reforms to the nation's health care system.
While  the Company offers  non-medical health insurance  products (such as group
dental insurance, long-term  care and disability  insurance), it generally  does
not offer medical indemnity products or managed care products, and, accordingly,
it  does not expect to be directly affected by such proposals to any significant
degree. However, the  uncertain environment  resulting from  health care  reform
could  cause group health  insurance providers to  enter some of  the markets in
which the  Company does  business,  thereby increasing  competition.  Increasing
healthcare  costs are causing consumers to seek alternative financial protection
products. As a result, the Company  is entering the fixed benefit critical  care
marketplace. Changes to the health care system may make this market more or less
attractive in the future.

                                        23
<PAGE>

COMPANY RATINGS

     Insurer  financial  strength  ratings  represent  the  opinions  of  rating
agencies regarding the  financial ability of  an insurance company  to meet  its
obligations  under an insurance policy. Credit ratings represent the opinions of
rating agencies regarding  an entity's  ability to repay  its indebtedness.  The
Company's  insurer financial strength ratings and  credit ratings as of the date
of this filing are listed in the table below:

  INSURER FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                              MOODY'S
                                                   A.M. BEST      FITCH      INVESTORS    STANDARD &
                                                   COMPANY(1)   RATINGS(2)   SERVICE(3)   POOR'S(4)
                                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
First MetLife Investors Insurance Co.                  A+          n/a          n/a            AA
General American Life Insurance Company                A+           AA          Aa2*           AA
MetLife Investors Insurance Company                    A+           AA          Aa2*           AA
MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California      A+          n/a          n/a            AA
MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company                A+           AA          Aa3            AA
Metropolitan Casualty Insurance Company                 A          n/a          n/a           n/a
Metropolitan Direct Property and Casualty
  Insurance Co.                                         A          n/a          n/a           n/a
Metropolitan General Insurance Company                  A          n/a          n/a           n/a
Metropolitan Group Property & Casualty Insurance
  Co.                                                   A          n/a          n/a           n/a
Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity Company              A          n/a          Aa3           n/a
Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company              A+          n/a          n/a           n/a
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company                    A+           AA          Aa2*           AA
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Short-term
  rating)                                             n/a          n/a          P-1*         A-1+
Metropolitan Lloyds Insurance Company of Texas          A          n/a          n/a           n/a
Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
  Company                                               A          n/a          Aa3*          n/a
New England Life Insurance Company                     A+           AA          Aa2*           AA
Paragon Life Insurance Company                         A+           AA          n/a            AA
RGA Reinsurance Company                                A+          AA-           A1           AA-
RGA Life Reinsurance Company of Canada                 A+          n/a          n/a           AA-
Texas Life Insurance Company                            A          n/a          n/a           n/a
</Table>

  CREDIT RATINGS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                              MOODY'S
                                                   A.M. BEST      FITCH      INVESTORS    STANDARD &
                                                   COMPANY(1)   RATINGS(2)   SERVICE(3)   POOR'S(4)
                                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
GenAmerica Capital I (Preferred Stock)                  n/a          A-           A3*        BBB+
General American Life Insurance Company (Surplus
  Notes)                                                 a+         n/a           A1*          A+
MetLife Funding, Inc. (Commercial Paper)             AMB-1+         F1+          P-1         A-1+
MetLife, Inc. (Commercial Paper)                     AMB-1+          F1          P-1*         A-1
MetLife, Inc. (Senior Unsecured)                          a           A           A2*           A
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Surplus
  Notes)                                                 a+          A+           A1*          A+
Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated
  (Senior Unsecured)                                     a-          A-         Baa1           A-
RGA Capital Trust I (Preferred Stock)                  bbb+        BBB+         Baa2          BBB
</Table>

                                        24
<PAGE>

---------------

 * The outlook for these ratings is negative.

(1) A.M.  Best Company  ("A.M. Best")  insurer financial  strength ratings range
    from "A++ (superior)" to "F (in  liquidation)." Ratings of "A+" and "A"  are
    in the "superior" and "excellent" categories, respectively.

    A.M.  Best long-term credit ratings range from "aaa (exceptional)" to "d (in
    default)." A "+" or  "-" may be  appended to ratings from  "aa" to "ccc"  to
    indicate  relative position within a category.  Ratings of "a" and "bbb" are
    in the "strong" and "adequate" categories, respectively.

    A.M. Best short-term credit  ratings range from  "AMB-1+ (strongest)" to  "d
    (in default)."

(2) Fitch  Ratings ("Fitch") insurer financial  strength ratings range from "AAA
    (exceptionally strong)" to "D (distressed)." A "+" or "-" may be appended to
    a rating to indicate relative position  within a category. A rating of  "AA"
    is in the "very strong" category.

    Fitch long-term credit ratings range from "AAA (highest credit quality)," to
    "D (default)." A "+" or "-" may be appended to a rating to indicate relative
    position  within a category. Ratings of "A"  and "BBB" are in the "high" and
    "good" categories, respectively.

    Fitch short-term credit ratings range from "F1+ (exceptionally strong credit
    quality)" to "D (in default)."  A rating of "F1"  is in the "highest  credit
    quality" category.

(3) Moody's  Investors Service ("Moody's")  long-term insurer financial strength
    ratings range from "Aaa  (exceptional)" to "C  (extremely poor)." A  numeric
    modifier  may be appended to a rating to indicate relative position within a
    category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. A rating of  "Aa"
    is in the "excellent" category.

    Moody's  short-term  insurer  financial  strength  ratings  range  from "P-1
    (superior)" to "NP (not prime)."

    Moody's long-term credit ratings  range from "Aaa  (highest quality)" to  "C
    (typically  in default)." A numeric modifier may  be appended to a rating to
    indicate relative position within a category, with 1 being the highest and 3
    being the lowest. Ratings of "A"  and "Baa" are in the "upper-medium  grade"
    and "medium-grade" categories, respectively.

    Moody's  short-term credit ratings  range from "P-1  (superior)" to "NP (not
    prime)."

(4) Standard & Poor's ("S&P") insurer financial strength ratings range from "AAA
    (extremely strong)" to  "R (regulatory supervision)."  A "+" or  "-" may  be
    appended  to ratings from "AA" to "CCC" to indicate relative position within
    a category. A rating of "AA" is in the "very strong" category.

    S&P  short-term  insurer  financial   strength  ratings  range  from   "A-1+
    (extremely strong)" to "R (regulatory supervision)."

    S&P  long-term credit ratings range from  "AAA (extremely strong)" to "D (in
    default)." A "+" or  "-" may be  appended to ratings from  "AA" to "CCC"  to
    indicate  relative position  within a  category. A rating  of "A"  is in the
    "strong" category.

    S&P short-term credit ratings range from "A-1+ (extremely strong)" to "D (in
    default)." A rating of "A-1" is in the "strong" category.

     The foregoing ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of  Metropolitan
Life  and  the  Company's  other  insurance  subsidiaries'  financial  strength,
operating performance and ability to meet policyholder obligations, and are  not
evaluations directed toward the protection of MetLife, Inc.'s securityholders.

     A ratings downgrade (or the potential for such a downgrade) of Metropolitan
Life  or any  of the Company's  other insurance subsidiaries  could, among other
things,  increase  the  number  of  policies  surrendered  and  withdrawals   by
policyholders of cash values from their policies, adversely affect relationships
with  broker/dealers, banks, agents,  wholesalers and other  distributors of the
Company's products  and services,  negatively impact  new sales,  and  adversely
affect  its ability to compete and thereby have a material adverse effect on its
business, results of operations and financial condition.

                                        25
<PAGE>

EMPLOYEES

     At  December 31, 2003, the Company employed approximately 49,000 employees.
The Company believes that its relations with its employees are satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife,
Inc. and Metropolitan Life:

          ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE,  age 59,  has been  a Director  of MetLife,  Inc.
     since  August 1999 and Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
     Officer of MetLife, Inc.  since September 1999. He  has been a Director  of
     Metropolitan Life since 1997 and Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
     Executive  Officer of Metropolitan Life since  July 1998, was President and
     Chief Operating Officer from November 1997 to June 1998, and was  Executive
     Vice  President from  September 1995  to October  1997. Previously,  he was
     Executive Vice President of PaineWebber Group Incorporated, a full  service
     securities and commodities firm, from 1989 to 1995.

          DANIEL  J.  CAVANAGH, age  64, has  been  Executive Vice  President of
     Operations and Technology of MetLife, Inc. since March 1999. He was  Senior
     Vice  President in  charge of information  systems from 1983  to 1991, Vice
     President from 1975 to 1983, Assistant Vice President from 1973 to 1975,  a
     manager in electronic development from 1972 to 1975, and joined the Company
     as  an insurance trainee in the industrial insurance department in 1957. He
     was appointed  president of  Metropolitan Property  and Casualty  Insurance
     Company  in 1991, its Chief  Executive Officer from 1993  to March 1999 and
     has been a director since 1986.

          C. ROBERT HENRIKSON, age 56, has been President of the U.S.  Insurance
     and  Financial Services  businesses of  MetLife, Inc.  since July  2002. He
     served as  President  of  Institutional Business  of  MetLife,  Inc.  since
     September 1999 and President of Institutional Business of Metropolitan Life
     since  May  1999. He  was  Senior Executive  Vice  President, Institutional
     Business, of Metropolitan Life  from December 1997  to May 1999,  Executive
     Vice President, Institutional Business, from January 1996 to December 1997,
     and  Senior Vice President, Pensions, from January 1991 to January 1995. He
     is a director  of a  number of  subsidiaries of  Metropolitan Property  and
     Casualty Insurance Company.

          LELAND  C. LAUNER, JR., age 48,  has been Executive Vice President and
     Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. and Metropolitan Life since  July
     2003 prior to which he was a Senior Vice President of Metropolitan Life for
     more  than five  years. Mr.  Launer is a  director of  Reinsurance Group of
     America, Incorporated.

          JAMES L.  LIPSCOMB, age  57,  has been  Executive Vice  President  and
     General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. and Metropolitan Life since July 2003. Mr.
     Lipscomb  was Senior  Vice President and  Deputy General  Counsel from July
     2001 to July 2003. Mr. Lipscomb  was President and Chief Executive  Officer
     of  Conning  Corporation, a  former subsidiary  of Metropolitan  Life, from
     March 2000  to  July 2001,  prior  to which  he  served in  various  senior
     management positions with Metropolitan Life for more than five years.

          STEWART  G. NAGLER, age 61,  has been a Director  and Vice Chairman of
     the Board  of  MetLife, Inc.  since  September  1999 and  served  as  Chief
     Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to December 2003. He
     has  been a Director of  Metropolitan Life since 1997  and Vice Chairman of
     the Board  of Metropolitan  Life since  July 1998  and he  served as  Chief
     Financial  Officer of  that company from  April 1993 to  December 2003. Mr.
     Nagler also serves as a director  and Chairman of the Board of  Reinsurance
     Group of America, Incorporated.

          CATHERINE A. REIN, age 61, has been Senior Executive Vice President of
     MetLife,  Inc.  since  September  1999 and  President  and  Chief Executive
     Officer of Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company since March
     1999. She has  been Senior  Executive Vice President  of Metropolitan  Life
     since  February 1998 and was Executive  Vice President from October 1989 to
     February 1998.

          WILLIAM J. TOPPETA,  age 55,  has been President  of International  of
     MetLife,  Inc. since  June 2001.  He was  President of  Client Services and
     Chief   Administrative   Officer   of   MetLife,   Inc.   from    September

                                        26
<PAGE>

     1999 to June 2001 and President of Client Services and Chief Administrative
     Officer  of Metropolitan  Life from  May 1999 to  June 2001.  He was Senior
     Executive Vice President,  Head of  Client Services,  of Metropolitan  Life
     from  March 1999 to May 1999,  Senior Executive Vice President, Individual,
     from February  1998 to  March 1999,  Executive Vice  President,  Individual
     Business,  from  July 1996  to February  1998,  Senior Vice  President from
     October 1995 to July  1996 and its President  and Chief Executive  Officer,
     Canadian Operations, from July 1993 to October 1995.

          LISA  M. WEBER, age  41, has been Senior  Executive Vice President and
     Chief Administrative Officer of MetLife,  Inc. and Metropolitan Life  since
     June   2001.  She  was  Executive  Vice  President  of  MetLife,  Inc.  and
     Metropolitan Life from  December 1999 to  June 2001 and  was head of  Human
     Resources  of Metropolitan Life  from March 1998 to  December 2003. She was
     Senior Vice President of MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to November 1999
     and Senior Vice President of Metropolitan Life from March 1998 to  November
     1999.  Previously,  she was  Senior Vice  President  of Human  Resources of
     PaineWebber Group Incorporated, where she  was employed for ten years.  Ms.
     Weber is a director of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated.

          WILLIAM  J. WHEELER,  age 42,  has been  Executive Vice  President and
     Chief Financial  Officer  of  MetLife, Inc.  and  Metropolitan  Life  since
     December   2003,  prior  to  which  he  was  a  Senior  Vice  President  of
     Metropolitan Life from 1997 to December  2003. Previously, he was a  Senior
     Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for more than five years.

TRADEMARKS

     MetLife  has a worldwide trademark portfolio that it considers important in
the marketing  of  its  products  and services,  including,  among  others,  the
trademark  "MetLife" and the  license to use  the Peanuts(R) characters. MetLife
has the  exclusive  right  to use  the  Peanuts(R)  characters in  the  area  of
financial services and health care benefit services in the U.S. and some foreign
countries  under  an  advertising  and  premium  agreement  with  United Feature
Syndicate. The agreement with United  Feature Syndicate expires on December  31,
2012. The Company believes that its rights in its trademarks are well protected.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

     MetLife,   Inc.  files   periodic  reports,  proxy   statements  and  other
information with the Securities and  Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Such  reports,
proxy  statements and other  information may be obtained  by visiting the Public
Reference Room of the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549 or by
calling the SEC at  1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the  SEC maintains an  internet
website  (www.sec.gov)  that  contains  reports,  proxy  statements,  and  other
information regarding issuers that file  electronically with the SEC,  including
MetLife, Inc.

     MetLife  makes available, free of  charge, on its website (www.metlife.com)
through the Investor Relations page, its annual reports on Form 10-K,  quarterly
reports  on Form 10-Q, current reports on  Form 8-K, and amendments to all those
reports, as  soon  as  reasonably practicable  after  filing  (furnishing)  such
reports  to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or
any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     One Madison Avenue in New York, New York currently serves as the  Company's
headquarters,  and it contains approximately 1.4 million rentable square feet of
space. The Company has leased approximately 1.1 million square feet of space  at
One  Madison Avenue to Credit Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc., under a long-term
lease. MetLife occupies the balance of the space, approximately 270,000 rentable
square feet as of December 31, 2003, which is expected to decline through 2004.

     At December 31,  2003, the  Company leased  approximately 686,082  rentable
square  feet in Long Island City, New  York under a long-term lease arrangement.
Currently, approximately 1,250 associates are  located in Long Island City  with
the  expectation that number will be increasing to in excess of 1,500 associates
in 2004.

                                        27
<PAGE>

     The Company continues to own 16 other buildings in the U.S. that it uses in
the operation of its business. These buildings contain approximately 3.1 million
rentable square feet and are located in the following states: Florida, Illinois,
Massachusetts, Missouri,  New Jersey,  New York,  Ohio, Oklahoma,  Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island and Texas. The Company's computer center in Rensselaer, New York is
not  owned in fee but  rather is occupied pursuant  to a long-term ground lease.
The Company leases  space in  approximately 692 other  locations throughout  the
U.S.,  and these leased facilities consist of approximately 8.1 million rentable
square feet. Approximately 52% of these leases are occupied as sales offices for
the Individual segment, and the Company uses the balance for its other  business
activities.  It also owns  six buildings outside the  U.S., comprising more than
448,000 rentable  square  feet. The  Company  leases approximately  1.8  million
rentable  square feet in various locations  outside the U.S. Management believes
that its properties  are suitable  and adequate  for the  Company's current  and
anticipated business operations.

     The  Company arranges for property and casualty coverage on its properties,
taking into consideration its  risk exposures and the  cost and availability  of
commercial  coverages, including deductible loss  levels. In connection with its
renewal of those  coverages, the  Company has  arranged $850  million of  annual
terrorist coverage on its real estate portfolio, effective January 1, 2004.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Sales Practices Claims

     Over  the past  several years, Metropolitan  Life, New  England Mutual Life
Insurance Company ("New  England Mutual")  and General  American Life  Insurance
Company  ("General American") have faced numerous claims, including class action
lawsuits, alleging improper  marketing and  sales of  individual life  insurance
policies  or  annuities.  These lawsuits  are  generally referred  to  as "sales
practices claims."

     In December 1999,  a federal  court approved a  settlement resolving  sales
practices  claims on  behalf of  a class of  owners of  permanent life insurance
policies and annuity  contracts or  certificates issued  pursuant to  individual
sales  in the  United States  by Metropolitan  Life, Metropolitan  Insurance and
Annuity Company or Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company between January  1,
1982  and  December 31,  1997. The  class includes  owners of  approximately six
million in-force or terminated insurance policies and approximately one  million
in-force or terminated annuity contracts or certificates.

     Similar  sales  practices class  actions against  New England  Mutual, with
which Metropolitan Life merged in 1996, and General American, which was acquired
in 2000,  have  been  settled. In  October  2000,  a federal  court  approved  a
settlement  resolving sales practices claims  on behalf of a  class of owners of
permanent life insurance policies issued  by New England Mutual between  January
1,  1983 through  August 31,  1996. The  class includes  owners of approximately
600,000 in-force  or  terminated  policies.  A  federal  court  has  approved  a
settlement  resolving sales practices claims  on behalf of a  class of owners of
permanent life insurance policies issued by General American between January  1,
1982  through  December 31,  1996.  An appellate  court  has affirmed  the order
approving the settlement.  The class  includes owners  of approximately  250,000
in-force or terminated policies.

     Certain  class members have opted out of the class action settlements noted
above and have brought or  continued non-class action sales practices  lawsuits.
In  addition, other sales  practices lawsuits have been  brought. As of December
31, 2003, there are approximately  366 sales practices lawsuits pending  against
Metropolitan Life, approximately 40 sales practices lawsuits pending against New
England  Mutual and  approximately 25  sales practices  lawsuits pending against
General American. Metropolitan  Life, New  England Mutual  and General  American
continue to defend themselves vigorously against these lawsuits. Some individual
sales practices claims have been resolved through settlement, won by dispositive
motions,  or, in a few instances, have gone  to trial. Most of the current cases
seek substantial damages, including  in some cases  punitive and treble  damages
and  attorneys' fees. Additional litigation  relating to the Company's marketing
and sales of individual life insurance may be commenced in the future.

     The Metropolitan Life class action settlement did not resolve two  putative
class  actions involving sales practices  claims filed against Metropolitan Life
in Canada, and these actions remain pending.

                                        28
<PAGE>

     The Company believes adequate provision  has been made in its  consolidated
financial  statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for sales
practices claims  against  Metropolitan Life,  New  England Mutual  and  General
American.

     Regulatory  authorities in a small number of states have had investigations
or inquiries relating to  Metropolitan Life's, New  England Mutual's or  General
American's  sales of individual  life insurance policies  or annuities. Over the
past several years,  these and a  number of investigations  by other  regulatory
authorities  were resolved for  monetary payments and  certain other relief. The
Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.

     Asbestos-Related Claims

     Metropolitan Life  is also  a defendant  in thousands  of lawsuits  seeking
compensatory  and  punitive damages  for personal  injuries allegedly  caused by
exposure to  asbestos or  asbestos-containing  products. Metropolitan  Life  has
never  engaged  in the  business  of manufacturing,  producing,  distributing or
selling asbestos  or  asbestos-containing  products nor  has  Metropolitan  Life
issued liability or workers' compensation insurance to companies in the business
of    manufacturing,   producing,   distributing    or   selling   asbestos   or
asbestos-containing products. Rather, these lawsuits have principally been based
upon allegations relating to certain research, publication and other  activities
of  one or  more of  Metropolitan Life's  employees during  the period  from the
1920's through approximately the 1950's and have alleged that Metropolitan  Life
learned  or should have learned  of certain health risks  posed by asbestos and,
among other things,  improperly publicized  or failed to  disclose those  health
risks.  Metropolitan Life  believes that it  should not have  legal liability in
such cases.

     Legal theories asserted against Metropolitan Life have included negligence,
intentional tort  claims  and  conspiracy claims  concerning  the  health  risks
associated with asbestos. Although Metropolitan Life believes it has meritorious
defenses to these claims, and has not suffered any adverse monetary judgments in
respect of these claims, due to the risks and expenses of litigation, almost all
past  cases  have been  resolved  by settlements.  Metropolitan  Life's defenses
(beyond denial of  certain factual  allegations) to  plaintiffs' claims  include
that:  (i) Metropolitan Life owed no duty to the plaintiffs -- it had no special
relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture, produce, distribute or
sell the asbestos  products that allegedly  injured plaintiffs; (ii)  plaintiffs
cannot demonstrate justifiable detrimental reliance; and (iii) plaintiffs cannot
demonstrate  proximate causation. In defending asbestos cases, Metropolitan Life
selects various strategies depending upon the jurisdictions in which such  cases
are  brought  and other  factors which,  in  Metropolitan Life's  judgment, best
protect Metropolitan Life's interests. Strategies  include seeking to settle  or
compromise  claims,  motions challenging  the legal  or  factual basis  for such
claims or defending on the  merits at trial. In 2002  and 2003, trial courts  in
California,   Utah  and  Georgia  granted   motions  dismissing  claims  against
Metropolitan Life on some or all of the above grounds. Other courts have  denied
motions  brought by Metropolitan Life to  dismiss cases without the necessity of
trial. There can be no assurance  that Metropolitan Life will receive  favorable
decisions  on motions  in the future.  Metropolitan Life intends  to continue to
exercise its  best  judgment regarding  settlement  or defense  of  such  cases,
including when trials of these cases are appropriate.

     The following table sets forth the total number of asbestos personal injury
claims  pending against Metropolitan Life as  of the dates indicated, the number
of new claims during  the years ended  on those dates  and the total  settlement
payments made to resolve asbestos personal injury claims during those years:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          AT OR FOR THE YEARS ENDED
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                         ----------------------------
                                                           2003      2002      2001
                                                         --------   -------   -------
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>       <C>
Asbestos personal injury claims at year-end
  (approximate)........................................   111,700   106,500    89,000
Number of new claims during the year (approximate).....    60,300    66,000    59,500
Settlement payments during the year (1)................     $84.2     $95.1     $90.7
</Table>

                                        29
<PAGE>

---------------

(1) Settlement  payments represent payments made by Metropolitan Life during the
    year in connection with  settlements made in that  year and in prior  years.
    Amounts  do not include Metropolitan Life's attorneys' fees and expenses and
    do not reflect amounts received from insurance carriers.

     The Company believes adequate provision  has been made in its  consolidated
financial  statements  for  all  probable and  reasonably  estimable  losses for
asbestos-related claims.  The  ability  of Metropolitan  Life  to  estimate  its
ultimate  asbestos  exposure  is  subject  to  considerable  uncertainty  due to
numerous factors. The  availability of data  is limited and  it is difficult  to
predict  with  any  certainty  numerous  variables  that  can  affect  liability
estimates, including the number  of future claims, the  cost to resolve  claims,
the  disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort
reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and  their
amounts.

     Recent  bankruptcies of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, as
well as advertising by plaintiffs' asbestos  lawyers, may result in an  increase
in  the number of claims and the cost of resolving claims, as well as the number
of trials  and  possible  adverse verdicts  Metropolitan  Life  may  experience.
Plaintiffs  are seeking additional funds from defendants, including Metropolitan
Life, in  light of  such recent  bankruptcies by  certain other  defendants.  In
addition,  publicity  regarding  legislative  reform efforts  may  result  in an
increase in the number of claims.

     Metropolitan Life  will continue  to study  its claims  experience,  review
external  literature regarding asbestos  claims experience in  the United States
and consider numerous variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure,
including bankruptcies of  other companies involved  in asbestos litigation  and
legislative  and judicial developments,  to identify trends  and to assess their
impact on the recorded asbestos liability.

     The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of
any  liability  that  Metropolitan  Life  may  ultimately  incur  is  uncertain.
Accordingly,  it is  reasonably possible  that the  Company's total  exposure to
asbestos claims may be greater than the liability recorded by the Company in its
consolidated financial  statements and  that  future charges  to income  may  be
necessary.  While the potential  future charges could  be material in particular
quarterly or annual  periods in which  they are recorded,  based on  information
currently  known by management, it does not  believe any such charges are likely
to have  a  material adverse  effect  on the  Company's  consolidated  financial
position.

     During  the fourth quarter  of 2002, Metropolitan  Life analyzed its claims
experience and reviewed external publications and numerous variables to identify
trends and assessed  their impact  on its recorded  asbestos liability.  Certain
publications  suggested  a  trend  towards more  asbestos-related  claims  and a
greater awareness of asbestos litigation  generally by potential plaintiffs  and
plaintiffs'  lawyers.  Plaintiffs' lawyers  continue  to advertise  heavily with
respect to  asbestos  litigation.  Bankruptcies  and  reorganizations  of  other
defendants  in  asbestos  litigation  may increase  the  pressures  on remaining
defendants, including Metropolitan Life. Through the first nine months of  2002,
the  number of  new claims  received by Metropolitan  Life was  lower than those
received during the comparable  2001 period. However, the  number of new  claims
received   by  Metropolitan  Life   during  the  fourth   quarter  of  2002  was
significantly higher than those received in the prior year quarter, resulting in
more new  claims being  received by  Metropolitan  Life in  2002 than  in  2001.
Factors  considered also included expected trends  in filing cases, the dates of
initial exposure  of plaintiffs  to  asbestos, the  likely percentage  of  total
asbestos  claims which included Metropolitan Life  as a defendant and experience
in claims settlement negotiations.

     Metropolitan Life also considered views derived from actuarial calculations
it made in the fourth quarter of 2002. These calculations were made using, among
other things, then current information regarding Metropolitan Life's claims  and
settlement  experience, information  available in public  reports, as  well as a
study regarding the possible future incidence  of mesothelioma. Based on all  of
the  above  information, including  greater than  expected claims  experience in
2000, 2001 and 2002,  Metropolitan Life expected to  receive more claims in  the
future   than  it  had  previously  expected.  Previously,  Metropolitan  Life's
liability reflected that the increase in asbestos-related claims was a result of
an acceleration in the reporting of such

                                        30
<PAGE>

claims;  the liability now reflects that such  an increase is also the result of
an increase  in the  total  number of  asbestos-related  claims expected  to  be
received  by  Metropolitan Life.  Accordingly,  Metropolitan Life  increased its
recorded  liability   for  asbestos-related   claims   by  $402   million   from
approximately  $820 million to  $1,225 million at December  31, 2002. This total
recorded asbestos-related liability (after the self-insured retention) is within
the  coverage   of  the   excess  insurance   policies  discussed   below.   The
aforementioned analysis was updated through December 31, 2003.

     During  1998, Metropolitan  Life paid $878  million in  premiums for excess
insurance policies for  asbestos-related claims. The  excess insurance  policies
for asbestos-related claims provide for recovery of losses up to $1,500 million,
which   is   in  excess   of  a   $400   million  self-insured   retention.  The
asbestos-related policies are  also subject to  annual and per-claim  sublimits.
Amounts  are recoverable under the policies annually with respect to claims paid
during the prior calendar  year. Although amounts paid  by Metropolitan Life  in
any  given year  that may  be recoverable  in the  next calendar  year under the
policies will be reflected as a reduction in the Company's operating cash  flows
for  the year in which they are paid, management believes that the payments will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity.

     Each asbestos-related policy  contains an experience  fund and a  reference
fund  that provides for payments to Metropolitan Life at the commutation date if
the reference fund is  greater than zero at  commutation or pro rata  reductions
from  time  to time  in  the loss  reimbursements  to Metropolitan  Life  if the
cumulative return on the reference fund is less than the return specified in the
experience fund. The return in the reference fund is tied to performance of  the
Standard  & Poor's  500 Index  and the Lehman  Brothers Aggregate  Bond Index. A
claim was made under the excess insurance policies in 2003 for the amounts  paid
with  respect  to  asbestos litigation  in  excess  of the  retention.  Based on
performance of the reference fund, at December 31, 2002, the loss reimbursements
to Metropolitan Life in 2003 and  the recoverable with respect to later  periods
was  $42 million less than the amount of the recorded losses. Such foregone loss
reimbursements  may  be  recovered   upon  commutation  depending  upon   future
performance  of  the  reference  fund.  The  foregone  loss  reimbursements were
estimated to be $9 million with respect  to 2002 claims and estimated to be  $42
million in the aggregate.

     The  $402 million  increase in the  recorded liability  for asbestos claims
less the foregone loss reimbursement adjustment of $42 million ($27 million, net
of income tax) resulted in  an increase in the  recoverable of $360 million.  At
December  31, 2002, a portion ($136 million) of the $360 million recoverable was
recognized in  income while  the  remainder ($224  million)  was recorded  as  a
deferred  gain which is expected  to be recognized in  income in the future over
the estimated  settlement period  of  the excess  insurance policies.  The  $402
million  increase in the recorded liability, less the portion of the recoverable
recognized in income, resulted in a  net expense of $266 million ($169  million,
net  of income tax).  The $360 million  recoverable may change  depending on the
future performance of the  Standard & Poor's 500  Index and the Lehman  Brothers
Aggregate Bond Index.

     As a result of the excess insurance policies, $1,237 million is recorded as
a  recoverable at  December 31,  2002 ($224  million of  which is  recorded as a
deferred gain as mentioned  above); the amount  includes recoveries for  amounts
paid in 2002. If at some point in the future, the Company believes the liability
for  probable  and  estimable  losses  for  asbestos-related  claims  should  be
increased, an expense would be recorded  and the insurance recoverable would  be
adjusted  subject to  the terms, conditions  and limits of  the excess insurance
policies. Portions of the change in the insurance recoverable would be  recorded
as  a  deferred gain  and  amortized into  income  over the  estimated remaining
settlement period of the insurance policies.

     In 2003, Metropolitan Life also  has been named as  a defendant in a  small
number  of silicosis,  welding and  mixed dust cases.  The cases  are pending in
Mississippi, Texas,  Ohio,  Pennsylvania, West  Virginia,  Louisiana,  Kentucky,
Georgia,  Alabama, Illinois and  Arkansas. The Company  intends to defend itself
vigorously against these cases.

     Property and Casualty Actions

     A purported class action has  been filed against Metropolitan Property  and
Casualty   Insurance  Company's  subsidiary,   Metropolitan  Casualty  Insurance
Company,  in   Florida   alleging   breach  of   contract   and   unfair   trade

                                        31
<PAGE>

practices  with respect to  allowing the use  of parts not  made by the original
manufacturer to repair damaged  automobiles. Discovery is  ongoing and a  motion
for  class certification is pending. Two purported nationwide class actions have
been filed  against  Metropolitan Property  and  Casualty Insurance  Company  in
Illinois.  One  suit claims  breach of  contract  and fraud  due to  the alleged
underpayment of medical  claims arising  from the  use of  a purportedly  biased
provider fee pricing system. A motion for class certification has been filed and
discovery  is  ongoing. The  second  suit claims  breach  of contract  and fraud
arising from  the alleged  use  of preferred  provider organizations  to  reduce
medical  provider fees  covered by the  medical claims portion  of the insurance
policy. A motion to dismiss  has been filed. A  purported class action has  been
filed  against Metropolitan Property and  Casualty Insurance Company in Montana.
This suit alleges breach of contract  and bad faith for not aggregating  medical
payment and uninsured coverages provided in connection with the several vehicles
identified  in  insureds'  motor  vehicle  policies.  Metropolitan  Property and
Casualty Insurance Company is vigorously defending itself against this  lawsuit.
Certain  plaintiffs'  lawyers have  alleged that  the  use of  certain automated
databases  to  provide  total  loss  vehicle  valuation  methods  was  improper.
Metropolitan  Property and  Casualty Insurance Company,  along with  a number of
other insurers, has tentatively agreed in January 2004 to resolve this issue  in
a  class action format. The amount to be  paid in resolution of this matter will
not be material to Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company.

     Demutualization Actions

     Several  lawsuits  were  brought  in  2000  challenging  the  fairness   of
Metropolitan  Life's plan  of reorganization,  as amended  (the "plan")  and the
adequacy  and  accuracy  of  Metropolitan  Life's  disclosure  to  policyholders
regarding the plan. These actions name as defendants some or all of Metropolitan
Life, the Holding Company, the individual directors, the New York Superintendent
of  Insurance (the  "Superintendent") and  the underwriters  for MetLife, Inc.'s
initial public offering, Goldman Sachs & Company and Credit Suisse First Boston.
Five purported class actions  pending in the  New York state  court in New  York
County were consolidated within the commercial part. In addition, there remained
a separate purported class action in New York state court in New York County. On
February  21, 2003,  the defendants'  motions to  dismiss both  the consolidated
action and separate action were granted; leave to replead as a proceeding  under
Article  78 of New York's  Civil Practice Law and Rules  has been granted in the
separate action. Plaintiffs in the consolidated action and separate action  have
filed  notices of appeal. Another purported class action in New York state court
in Kings  County  has been  voluntarily  held  in abeyance  by  plaintiffs.  The
plaintiffs  in the  state court class  actions seek  injunctive, declaratory and
compensatory relief, as well as an  accounting and, in some instances,  punitive
damages. Some of the plaintiffs in the above described actions also have brought
a  proceeding  under Article  78  of New  York's  Civil Practice  Law  and Rules
challenging the  Opinion and  Decision of  the Superintendent  who approved  the
plan.  In  this  proceeding,  petitioners seek  to  vacate  the Superintendent's
Opinion and Decision and  enjoin him from granting  final approval of the  plan.
This  case also is being  held in abeyance by  plaintiffs. Three purported class
actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern  District
of  New York claiming violation of the Securities Act of 1933. The plaintiffs in
these actions,  which  have  been  consolidated,  claim  that  the  Policyholder
Information  Booklets relating to  the plan failed  to disclose certain material
facts and seek rescission and  compensatory damages. Metropolitan Life's  motion
to dismiss these three cases was denied in 2001. On February 4, 2003, plaintiffs
filed a consolidated amended complaint adding a fraud claim under the Securities
Exchange  Act of  1934. Metropolitan  Life has  served a  motion to  dismiss the
consolidated amended complaint and a motion for summary judgment in this action.
Metropolitan Life, the  Holding Company  and the  individual defendants  believe
they  have meritorious  defenses to  the plaintiffs'  claims and  are contesting
vigorously all of the plaintiffs' claims in these actions.

     In 2001, a  lawsuit was filed  in the Superior  Court of Justice,  Ontario,
Canada  on behalf of  a proposed class of  certain former Canadian policyholders
against the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life, and Metropolitan Life  Insurance
Company  of Canada. Plaintiffs' allegations concern  the way that their policies
were treated in connection with  the demutualization of Metropolitan Life;  they
seek  damages,  declarations,  and other  non-pecuniary  relief.  The defendants
believe they  have  meritorious defenses  to  the plaintiffs'  claims  and  will
contest vigorously all of plaintiffs' claims in this matter.

                                        32
<PAGE>

     In  July 2002, a lawsuit was filed  in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of  Texas on behalf  of a proposed  class comprised of  the
settlement   class  in  the  Metropolitan  Life  sales  practices  class  action
settlement approved in December 1999 by the United States District Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania. After  the defendants' motion to transfer  the
lawsuit to the Western District of Pennsylvania was granted, plaintiffs filed an
amended complaint alleging that the treatment of the cost of the sales practices
settlement  in connection with the demutualization of Metropolitan Life breached
the terms  of  the  settlement.  Plaintiffs  sought  compensatory  and  punitive
damages,  as  well as  attorneys' fees  and  costs. In  October 2003,  the court
granted defendants' motion to dismiss the  action. Plaintiffs filed a notice  of
appeal  to the United States Court of  Appeals for the Third Circuit. In January
2004, the appeal was dismissed.

     Race-Conscious Underwriting Claims

     Insurance departments in  a number  of states initiated  inquiries in  2000
about  possible race-conscious  underwriting of life  insurance. These inquiries
generally have been directed to all  life insurers licensed in their  respective
states,  including Metropolitan Life and certain of its affiliates. The New York
Insurance  Department  has  concluded  its  examination  of  Metropolitan   Life
concerning  possible past race-conscious  underwriting practices. Four purported
class action lawsuits filed against Metropolitan Life in 2000 and 2001  alleging
racial  discrimination  in  the  marketing,  sale,  and  administration  of life
insurance policies have been  consolidated in the  United States District  Court
for  the Southern  District of New  York. On  April 28, 2003,  the United States
District Court approved a class-action  settlement of the consolidated  actions.
Several persons filed notices of appeal from the order approving the settlement,
but  subsequently the appeals were dismissed. Metropolitan Life also has entered
into settlement agreements to  resolve the regulatory examination.  Metropolitan
Life  recorded a  charge in the  fourth quarter  of 2001 in  connection with the
anticipated resolution  of these  matters. The  Company believes  the  remaining
portion  of  the  previously recorded  charge  is  adequate to  cover  the costs
associated with the resolution of these matters.

     Sixteen lawsuits involving approximately 130 plaintiffs have been filed  in
federal  and state court in Alabama,  Mississippi and Tennessee alleging federal
and/or state law claims  of racial discrimination in  connection with the  sale,
formation,  administration or servicing of life insurance policies. Metropolitan
Life is contesting vigorously plaintiffs' claims in these actions.

     Other

     In 2001, a putative class action was filed against Metropolitan Life in the
United States District  Court for  the Southern  District of  New York  alleging
gender  discrimination and retaliation in the MetLife Financial Services unit of
the Individual  segment. The  plaintiffs were  seeking unspecified  compensatory
damages,  punitive  damages,  a  declaration  that  the  alleged  practices were
discriminatory and  illegal, injunctive  relief requiring  Metropolitan Life  to
discontinue  the  alleged  discriminatory practices,  an  order  restoring class
members to  their  rightful  positions  (or  appropriate  compensation  in  lieu
thereof),  and other relief. Plaintiffs filed  a motion for class certification.
Opposition papers were  filed by Metropolitan  Life. In August  2003, the  court
granted  preliminary approval  to a settlement  of the lawsuit.  At the fairness
hearing held  on November  6, 2003,  the court  approved the  settlement of  the
lawsuit. Implementation of the settlement has commenced in 2004.

     A  putative class action  lawsuit is pending in  the United States District
Court for the District  of Columbia, in which  plaintiffs allege that they  were
denied   certain  ad  hoc  pension  increases  awarded  to  retirees  under  the
Metropolitan Life retirement  plan. The  ad hoc pension  increases were  awarded
only to retirees (i.e., individuals who were entitled to an immediate retirement
benefit  upon their termination of employment)  and not available to individuals
like these  plaintiffs  whose  employment, or  whose  spouses'  employment,  had
terminated  before they became eligible for an immediate retirement benefit. The
plaintiffs seek  to represent  a class  consisting of  former Metropolitan  Life
employees, or their surviving spouses, who are receiving deferred vested annuity
payments  under the retirement  plan and who were  allegedly eligible to receive
the ad hoc pension increases awarded in  1977, 1980, 1989, 1992, 1996 and  2001,
as  well as increases awarded in  earlier years. Metropolitan Life is vigorously
defending itself against these allegations.

                                        33
<PAGE>

     A lawsuit was filed against Metropolitan Life in Ontario, Canada by Clarica
Life Insurance Company regarding the sale of the majority of Metropolitan Life's
Canadian  operation to Clarica  in 1998. Clarica  alleged that Metropolitan Life
breached certain representations and warranties contained in the sale agreement,
that Metropolitan Life made misrepresentations upon which Clarica relied  during
the  negotiations and that Metropolitan Life was negligent in the performance of
certain of its  obligations and  duties under  the sale  agreement. The  parties
settled  the matter in January 2004. The settlement will have no material impact
on the Company's consolidated financial results in 2004.

     A reinsurer of universal life  policy liabilities of Metropolitan Life  and
certain  of  its  affiliates  commenced  an  arbitration  proceeding  and sought
rescission, claiming that, during  underwriting, material misrepresentations  or
omissions  were  made  to  the  reinsurer.  The  reinsurer  also  sent  a notice
purporting  to  increase  reinsurance  premium  rates.  In  December  2003,  the
arbitration  panel denied  the reinsurer's attempt  to rescind  the contract and
granted the  reinsurer's request  to raise  rates. As  a result  of the  panel's
rulings,  liabilities ceded  to the reinsurer  were recaptured  effective May 5,
2003. The  recapture  had  no  material impact  on  the  Company's  consolidated
financial results in 2003.

     As previously reported, the SEC is conducting a formal investigation of New
England  Securities Corporation ("NES"),  an indirect subsidiary  of New England
Life Insurance Company  ("NELICO"), in response  to NES informing  the SEC  that
certain  systems  and controls  relating to  one NES  advisory program  were not
operating effectively. NES is cooperating fully with the SEC.

     Prior to filing the Company's June 30, 2003 Form 10-Q, MetLife announced  a
$31 million after-tax charge resulting from certain improperly deferred expenses
at  an  affiliate, New  England Financial.  MetLife notified  the SEC  about the
nature of this charge prior  to its announcement. The  SEC is pursuing a  formal
investigation   of  the  matter  and  MetLife  is  fully  cooperating  with  the
investigation.

     The American  Dental Association  and two  individual providers  have  sued
MetLife,  Mutual of Omaha and Cigna in  a purported class action lawsuit brought
in a  Florida federal  district court.  The plaintiffs  purport to  represent  a
nationwide  class of in-network providers who allege that their claims are being
wrongfully reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and programming
of software. The complaint  alleges federal racketeering  and various state  law
theories  of liability. MetLife is vigorously defending the case and a motion to
dismiss has been filed.

     A purported class action in which a policyholder seeks to represent a class
of owners of participating life insurance policies is pending in state court  in
New  York. Plaintiff asserts  that Metropolitan Life breached  her policy in the
manner in which it allocated investment income across lines of business during a
period ending with the 2000 demutualization. In August 2003, an appellate  court
affirmed  the dismissal  of fraud claims  in this action.  MetLife is vigorously
defending the case.

     Regulatory bodies have contacted the Company and have requested information
relating to  market  timing  and  late trading  of  mutual  funds  and  variable
insurance  products. The  Company believes that  these inquiries  are similar to
those made to  many financial  services companies  as part  of an  industry-wide
investigation  by various regulatory  agencies into the  practices, policies and
procedures relating  to trading  in mutual  fund shares.  State Street  Research
Investment  Services, one of the  Company's indirect broker/dealer subsidiaries,
has entered into  a settlement with  the NASD resolving  all outstanding  issues
relating  to  its investigation.  The SEC  has  commenced an  investigation with
respect  to  market   timing  and   late  trading   in  a   limited  number   of
privately-placed  variable insurance  contracts that  were sold  through General
American. The Company is in the  process of responding and is fully  cooperating
with regard to these information requests and investigations. The Company at the
present  time is not aware of any systemic problems with respect to such matters
that may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated  financial
position.

     Various litigation, claims and assessments against the Company, in addition
to  those  discussed above  and those  otherwise provided  for in  the Company's
consolidated financial statements, have  arisen in the  course of the  Company's
business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an
insurer,  employer, investor,  investment advisor  and taxpayer.  Further, state
insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and

                                        34
<PAGE>

state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning
the   Company's  compliance  with  applicable   insurance  and  other  laws  and
regulations.

     Summary

     It is not  feasible to  predict or determine  the ultimate  outcome of  all
pending  investigations and  legal proceedings  or provide  reasonable ranges of
potential losses, except as noted above in connection with specific matters.  In
some  of the matters referred to above, very large and/or indeterminate amounts,
including punitive and treble  damages, are sought. Although  in light of  these
considerations  it is  possible that an  adverse outcome in  certain cases could
have a  material  adverse  effect  upon  the  Company's  consolidated  financial
position,  based on information currently known  by the Company's management, in
its opinion, the outcomes of  such pending investigations and legal  proceedings
are  not  likely  to  have  such an  effect.  However,  given  the  large and/or
indeterminate amounts  sought  in certain  of  these matters  and  the  inherent
unpredictability  of  litigation,  it is  possible  that an  adverse  outcome in
certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on  the
Company's  consolidated  net income  or cash  flows  in particular  quarterly or
annual periods.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matter was  submitted to a  vote of security  holders during the  fourth
quarter of 2003.

                                        35
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     MetLife,  Inc.'s  common  stock, par  value  $0.01 per  share  (the "Common
Stock"), began trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the  symbol
"MET" on April 5, 2000.

     The  following table  presents high and  low closing prices  for the Common
Stock on the  NYSE for  the periods indicated,  and the  dividends declared  per
share:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  2003
                                          -----------------------------------------------------
                                          1ST QUARTER   2ND QUARTER   3RD QUARTER   4TH QUARTER
                                          -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>                                       <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Common Stock Price
  High..................................    $29.34        $29.20        $29.58        $33.92
  Low...................................    $24.01        $26.61        $27.35        $28.96
Dividends Declared......................    $   --        $   --        $   --        $ 0.23
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  2002
                                          -----------------------------------------------------
                                          1ST QUARTER   2ND QUARTER   3RD QUARTER   4TH QUARTER
                                          -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>                                       <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Common Stock Price
  High..................................    $33.30        $34.58        $29.58        $28.41
  Low...................................    $28.67        $28.00        $22.76        $20.75
Dividends Declared......................    $   --        $   --        $   --        $ 0.21
</Table>

     As  of March 1,  2004, there were  39,368 shareholders of  record of Common
Stock.

     On October 21, 2003, the Holding  Company's Board of Directors approved  an
annual  dividend for 2003 of $0.23 per  share. The dividend was paid on December
15, 2003 to shareholders of record on November 7, 2003. On October 22, 2002, the
Holding Company's Board  of Directors approved  an annual dividend  for 2002  of
$0.21  per share. The dividend was paid  on December 13, 2002 to shareholders of
record on November 8, 2002. Future dividend decisions will be determined by  the
Holding  Company's Board  of Directors  after taking  into consideration factors
such as the Holding Company's  current earnings, expected medium- and  long-term
earnings,  financial  condition,  regulatory  capital  position,  and applicable
governmental  regulations   and   policies.  See   "Business   --   Regulation",
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of Financial  Condition and  Results of
Operations --  Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources"  and  Note  14  to  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                        36
<PAGE>

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The  following table sets forth selected consolidated financial information
for the Company. The selected  consolidated financial information for the  years
ended  December 31, 2003, 2002,  and 2001 and at December  31, 2003 and 2002 has
been derived  from  the  Company's  audited  consolidated  financial  statements
included  elsewhere herein. The selected  consolidated financial information for
the years ended December 31,  2000 and 1999 and at  December 31, 2001, 2000  and
1999  has  been  derived  from  the  Company's  audited  consolidated  financial
statements not included  elsewhere herein. The  following information should  be
read  in conjunction with  and is qualified  in its entirety  by the information
contained in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis  of Financial Condition  and
Results  of  Operations," and  the  consolidated financial  statements appearing
elsewhere herein. Some  previously reported  amounts have  been reclassified  to
conform with the presentation at and for the year ended December 31, 2003.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                               -----------------------------------------------
                                                2003      2002      2001      2000      1999
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                            <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
STATEMENTS OF INCOME DATA
Revenues:
  Premiums...................................  $20,673   $19,077   $17,212   $16,317   $12,084
  Universal life and investment-type product
     policy fees.............................    2,496     2,147     1,889     1,820     1,437
  Net investment income(1)...................   11,636    11,261    11,187    10,986     9,436
  Other revenues.............................    1,342     1,332     1,507     2,229     1,861
  Net investment gains
     (losses)(1)(2)(3)(7)....................     (358)     (751)     (579)     (390)      (70)
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
          Total revenues(4)(6)...............   35,789    33,066    31,216    30,962    24,748
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
Expenses:
  Policyholder benefits and claims(2)(7).....   20,848    19,523    18,454    16,893    13,100
  Interest credited to policyholder account
     balances................................    3,035     2,950     3,084     2,935     2,441
  Policyholder dividends.....................    1,975     1,942     2,086     1,919     1,690
  Payments to former Canadian
     policyholders(5)........................       --        --        --       327        --
  Demutualization costs......................       --        --        --       230       260
  Other expenses(1)(2)(8)....................    7,301     7,015     7,022     7,401     6,210
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
          Total expenses(4)(6)...............   33,159    31,430    30,646    29,705    23,701
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before
  provision for income taxes.................    2,630     1,636       570     1,257     1,047
Provision for income taxes(1)(9).............      687       502       204       405       511
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
Income from continuing operations............    1,943     1,134       366       852       536
Income from discontinued operations, net of
  income taxes(1)............................      300       471       107       101        81
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
Income before cumulative effect of change in
  accounting.................................    2,243     1,605       473       953       617
Cumulative effect of change in accounting,
  net of income taxes........................      (26)       --        --        --        --
                                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
Net income...................................  $ 2,217   $ 1,605   $   473   $   953   $   617
                                               =======   =======   =======   =======   =======
Net income after April 7, 2000 (date of
  demutualization)...........................                                $ 1,173
                                                                             =======
</Table>

                                        37
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            AT DECEMBER 31,
                                          ----------------------------------------------------
                                            2003       2002       2001       2000       1999
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
BALANCE SHEET DATA
Assets:
  General account assets................  $251,085   $217,733   $194,256   $183,912   $160,291
  Separate account assets...............    75,756     59,693     62,714     70,250     64,941
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
     Total assets.......................  $326,841   $277,426   $256,970   $254,162   $225,232
                                          ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Liabilities:
  Life and health policyholder
     liabilities(10)....................  $176,628   $162,569   $148,395   $140,040   $122,637
  Property and casualty policyholder
     liabilities(10)....................     2,943      2,673      2,610      2,559      2,318
  Short-term debt.......................     3,642      1,161        355      1,085      4,180
  Long-term debt........................     5,703      4,425      3,628      2,400      2,494
  Other liabilities.....................    41,020     28,255     21,950     20,349     14,972
  Separate account liabilities..........    75,756     59,693     62,714     70,250     64,941
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
     Total liabilities..................   305,692    258,776    239,652    236,683    211,542
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Company-obligated mandatorily
     redeemable securities of subsidiary
     trusts.............................        --      1,265      1,256      1,090         --
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
Stockholders' Equity:
  Common stock, at par value(11)........         8          8          8          8         --
  Additional paid-in capital(11)........    14,991     14,968     14,966     14,926         --
  Retained earnings(11).................     4,193      2,807      1,349      1,021     14,100
  Treasury stock, at cost(11)...........      (835)    (2,405)    (1,934)      (613)        --
  Accumulated other comprehensive income
     (loss).............................     2,792      2,007      1,673      1,047       (410)
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
     Total stockholders' equity.........    21,149     17,385     16,062     16,389     13,690
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
     Total liabilities and stockholders'
       equity...........................  $326,841   $277,426   $256,970   $254,162   $225,232
                                          ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
</Table>

                                        38
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 AT OR FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                          ----------------------------------------------------
                                            2003       2002       2001       2000       1999
                                          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
OTHER DATA
  Net income............................  $  2,217   $  1,605   $    473   $    953   $    617
  Return on equity(12)..................     13.1%      10.8%       3.2%       6.5%       4.5%
  Total assets under management(13).....  $350,235   $299,187   $282,486   $301,325   $373,612
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
  AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS PER
  SHARE DATA(14)
  Basic earnings per share..............  $   2.60   $   1.61   $   0.49   $   1.42        N/A
  Diluted earnings per share............  $   2.57   $   1.56   $   0.48   $   1.40        N/A
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS PER
  SHARE DATA(14)
  Basic earnings per share..............  $   0.41   $   0.67   $   0.14   $   0.10        N/A
  Diluted earnings per share............  $   0.40   $   0.65   $   0.14   $   0.09        N/A
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN
  ACCOUNTING PER SHARE DATA(14)
  Basic earnings per share..............  $  (0.04)  $     --   $     --   $     --        N/A
  Diluted earnings per share............  $  (0.03)  $     --   $     --   $     --        N/A
NET INCOME AVAILABLE TO COMMON
  SHAREHOLDERS PER SHARE DATA(14)
  Basic earnings per share..............  $   2.98   $   2.28   $   0.64   $   1.52        N/A
  Diluted earnings per share............  $   2.94   $   2.20   $   0.62   $   1.49        N/A
DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER SHARE............  $   0.23   $   0.21   $   0.20   $   0.20        N/A
</Table>

---------------

 (1) In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
     144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, income
     related to real estate sold or classified as held-for-sale for transactions
     initiated  on  or  after  January  1,  2002  is  presented  as discontinued
     operations. The  following table  presents the  components of  income  from
     discontinued operations:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                            --------------------------------
                                            2003   2002   2001   2000   1999
                                            ----   ----   ----   ----   ----
                                                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                         <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>
Net investment income.....................  $ 52   $160   $169   $159   $128
Net investment gains (losses).............   421    582     --     --     --
                                            ----   ----   ----   ----   ----
  Total revenues..........................   473    742    169    159    128
Interest expense..........................     1      1     --     --     --
Provision for income taxes................   172    270     62     58     47
                                            ----   ----   ----   ----   ----
  Income from discontinued operations, net
     of income taxes......................  $300   $471   $107   $101   $ 81
                                            ====   ====   ====   ====   ====
</Table>

                                        39
<PAGE>

 (2) Investment  gains  and losses  are  presented net  of  related policyholder
     amounts. The amounts  netted against  investment gains and  losses are  the
     following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                         FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       -------------------------------------
                                       2003    2002    2001    2000    1999
                                       -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                    <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>
Gross investment gains (losses)......  $(573)  $(896)  $(713)  $(444)  $(137)
                                       -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
Less amounts allocated from:
  Deferred policy acquisition
     costs...........................     31      (5)    (25)     95      46
  Participating contracts............     40      (7)     --    (126)     21
  Policyholder dividend obligation...    144     157     159      85      --
                                       -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
  Total..............................    215     145     134      54      67
                                       -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
Net investment gains (losses)........  $(358)  $(751)  $(579)  $(390)  $ (70)
                                       =====   =====   =====   =====   =====
</Table>

     Investment  gains and losses have been  reduced by (i) amortization of DAC,
     to the  extent that  such amortization  results from  investment gains  and
     losses,  (ii)  adjustments  to participating  contractholder  accounts when
     amounts equal  to such  investment  gains and  losses  are applied  to  the
     contractholder's  accounts,  and  (iii)  adjustments  to  the  policyholder
     dividend obligation  resulting  from  investment  gains  and  losses.  This
     presentation may not be comparable to presentations made by other insurers.

 (3) Net  investment  gains  and  losses  presented  include  scheduled periodic
     settlement payments on derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
     accounting under SFAS  No. 133, Accounting  for Derivative Instruments  and
     Hedging Activities, as amended, of $84 million, $32 million and $24 million
     for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

 (4) Includes  the  following  combined  financial  statement  data  of  Conning
     Corporation  ("Conning"),  which  was  sold  in  2001  and  the   Company's
     controlling interest in Nvest Companies, L.P. and its affiliates ("Nvest"),
     which was sold in 2000:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           FOR THE YEARS ENDED
                                                              DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ---------------------
                                                          2001    2000    1999
                                                          -----   -----   -----
                                                          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>     <C>     <C>
Total revenues..........................................   $32    $605    $655
                                                           ===    ====    ====
Total expenses..........................................   $33    $580    $603
                                                           ===    ====    ====
</Table>

     As  a  result of  these sales,  investment  gains of  $25 million  and $663
     million were  recorded for  the years  ended December  31, 2001  and  2000,
     respectively.

 (5) In  July 1998, Metropolitan Life sold a substantial portion of its Canadian
     operations to Clarica Life Insurance  Company ("Clarica Life"). As part  of
     that  sale, a large block  of policies in effect  with Metropolitan Life in
     Canada were transferred to Clarica Life, and the holders of the transferred
     Canadian policies became policyholders  of Clarica Life. Those  transferred
     policyholders  were  no  longer  policyholders  of  Metropolitan  Life and,
     therefore,  were  not   entitled  to   compensation  under   the  plan   of
     reorganization.  However, as  a result of  a commitment  made in connection
     with obtaining Canadian regulatory approval of that sale and in  connection
     with the demutualization, in 2000, Metropolitan Life's Canadian branch made
     cash  payments to those  who were, or  were deemed to  be, holders of these
     transferred Canadian policies.  The payments  were determined  in a  manner
     that  is  consistent with  the  treatment of,  and  fair and  equitable to,
     eligible policyholders of Metropolitan Life.

 (6) Included in total revenues and total  expenses for the year ended  December
     31,  2002  are  $421 million  and  $358 million,  respectively,  related to
     Aseguradora Hidalgo  S.A., which  was acquired  in June  2002. Included  in
     total  revenues and total expenses for the year ended December 31, 2000 are
     $3,739 million  and $3,561  million, respectively,  related to  GenAmerica,
     which was acquired in January 2000.

                                        40
<PAGE>

 (7) Policyholder  benefits and  claims exclude ($184)  million, ($150) million,
     ($159) million, $41 million, and ($21) million for the years ended December
     31, 2003,  2002,  2001, 2000  and  1999, respectively,  of  adjustments  to
     participating  contractholder  accounts  and  changes  in  the policyholder
     dividend obligation that have been netted against net investment gains  and
     losses  as such amounts are directly related to such gains and losses. This
     presentation may not be comparable to presentations made by other insurers.

 (8) Other expenses  exclude  ($31)  million, $5  million,  $25  million,  ($95)
     million,  and ($46)  million for the  years ended December  31, 2003, 2002,
     2001, 2000 and  1999 respectively, of  amortization of DAC  that have  been
     netted against net investment gains and losses as such amounts are directly
     related  to such gains and losses.  This presentation may not be comparable
     to presentations made by other insurers.

 (9) Provision for income  taxes includes  ($145) million and  $125 million  for
     surplus  tax (credited)  accrued by Metropolitan  Life for  the years ended
     December 31, 2000  and 1999,  respectively. Prior  to its  demutualization,
     Metropolitan  Life  was  subject  to surplus  tax  imposed  on  mutual life
     insurance companies under Section 809 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(10) Policyholder  liabilities  include   future  policy   benefits  and   other
     policyholder  funds. Life and health  policyholder liabilities also include
     policyholder account  balances,  policyholder  dividends  payable  and  the
     policyholder dividend obligation.

(11) For  additional information  regarding these items,  see Notes 1  and 14 of
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(12) Return on equity is defined as net income divided by average total  equity,
     excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

(13) Includes  MetLife's general account and  separate account assets managed on
     behalf of third parties.  Includes $21 billion  of assets under  management
     managed  by Conning at December 31, 2000,  which was sold in 2001. Includes
     $133 billion of assets  under management managed by  Nvest at December  31,
     1999 which was sold in 2000.

(14) Based on earnings subsequent to the date of demutualization. For additional
     information  regarding net income per  share data, see Note  16 of Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     For purposes  of this  discussion,  the terms  "MetLife" or  the  "Company"
refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Holding Company"), and its
subsidiaries,  including  Metropolitan  Life  Insurance  Company  ("Metropolitan
Life"). Following  this  summary is  a  discussion addressing  the  consolidated
results  of operations  and financial condition  of the Company  for the periods
indicated. This  discussion should  be read  in conjunction  with the  Company's
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.

ECONOMIC CAPITAL

     Beginning  in  2003,  the  Company changed  its  methodology  of allocating
capital to its  business segments  from Risk-Based Capital  ("RBC") to  Economic
Capital.  Prior to 2003,  the Company's business  segments' allocated equity was
primarily based on  RBC, an  internally developed  formula based  on applying  a
multiple  to  the  National  Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners Statutory
Risk-Based  Capital  and  included   certain  adjustments  in  accordance   with
accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  of America
("GAAP"). Economic Capital is  an internally developed  risk capital model,  the
purpose  of which is to measure the risk  in the business and to provide a basis
upon which capital  is deployed.  The Economic  Capital model  accounts for  the
unique  and specific nature of the  risks inherent in MetLife's businesses. This
is in  contrast to  the standardized  regulatory RBC  formula, which  is not  as
refined  in its risk calculations  with respect to the  nuances of the Company's
businesses.

     The change in methodology is  being applied prospectively. This change  has
and will continue to impact the level of net investment income and net income of
each  of the Company's business segments. A  portion of net investment income is
credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This change  in

                                        41
<PAGE>

methodology  of allocating equity does not impact the Company's consolidated net
investment income or net income.

     The following table  presents actual  and pro forma  net investment  income
with respect to the Company's segments for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001.  The amounts shown as  pro forma reflect net  investment income that would
have been reported  in these years  had the Company  allocated capital based  on
Economic Capital rather than on the basis of RBC.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          NET INVESTMENT INCOME
                                                    FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                -----------------------------------------
                                                       2002                  2001
                                                -------------------   -------------------
                                                ACTUAL    PRO FORMA   ACTUAL    PRO FORMA
                                                -------   ---------   -------   ---------
                                                          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                             <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>
Institutional.................................  $ 3,918    $ 3,980    $ 3,967    $ 4,040
Individual....................................    6,244      6,155      6,165      6,078
Auto & Home...................................      177        160        200        184
International.................................      461        424        267        251
Reinsurance...................................      421        382        390        354
Asset Management..............................       59         71         71         89
Corporate & Other.............................      (19)        89        127        191
                                                -------    -------    -------    -------
  Total.......................................  $11,261    $11,261    $11,187    $11,187
                                                =======    =======    =======    =======
</Table>

ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

     In  September  2003,  a subsidiary  of  the Company,  Reinsurance  Group of
America, Incorporated ("RGA"), announced a coinsurance agreement under which  it
assumed the traditional U.S. life reinsurance business of Allianz Life Insurance
Company  of North America.  The transaction closed during  the fourth quarter of
2003 with an effective date retroactive  to July 1, 2003. The transaction  added
approximately $278 billion of life reinsurance in-force, $246 million of premium
and $11 million of income before income tax expense, excluding minority interest
expense, to the fourth quarter of 2003.

     In June 2002, the Company acquired Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. ("Hidalgo"), an
insurance  company based in Mexico with  approximately $2.5 billion in assets as
of the date of acquisition. The Company's existing Mexico subsidiary and Hidalgo
now operate as a combined entity under the name MetLife Mexico.

     In November  2001,  the  Company  acquired  Compania  de  Seguros  de  Vida
Santander  S.A. and Compania de Reaseguros  de Vida Soince Re S.A., wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Santander  Central Hispano in  Chile. These acquisitions  marked
MetLife's entrance into the Chilean insurance market.

     In  July  2001,  the  Company completed  its  sale  of  Conning Corporation
("Conning"), an affiliate  acquired in the  acquisition of GenAmerica  Financial
Corporation  ("GenAmerica") in 2000. Conning specialized in asset management for
insurance company investment portfolios and investment research.

SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

     The preparation of  financial statements in  conformity with GAAP  requires
management  to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
affect amounts reported in the  consolidated financial statements. The  critical
accounting  policies, estimates  and related judgments  underlying the Company's
consolidated financial  statements  are  summarized  below.  In  applying  these
policies,  management  makes subjective  and  complex judgments  that frequently
require estimates about  matters that  are inherently uncertain.  Many of  these
policies,  estimates  and  related judgments  are  common in  the  insurance and
financial services industries; others are  specific to the Company's  businesses
and operations.

                                        42
<PAGE>

  INVESTMENTS

     The Company's principal investments are in fixed maturities, mortgage loans
and real estate, all of which are exposed to three primary sources of investment
risk:  credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks
are those associated with the recognition of impairments and income, as well  as
the  determination of  fair values. The  assessment of  whether impairments have
occurred is  based on  management's case-by-case  evaluation of  the  underlying
reasons  for the  decline in  fair value. Management  considers a  wide range of
factors about the security issuer and  uses its best judgment in evaluating  the
cause  of  the  decline in  the  estimated fair  value  of the  security  and in
assessing  the  prospects  for  near-term  recovery.  Inherent  in  management's
evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of
the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company
in  the impairment evaluation process  include, but are not  limited to: (i) the
length of time and  the extent to  which the market value  has been below  cost;
(ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing
significant  financial difficulties; (iii)  the potential for  impairments in an
entire industry  sector or  sub-sector; (iv)  the potential  for impairments  in
certain  economically  depressed  geographic locations;  (v)  the  potential for
impairments of securities where  the issuer, series of  issuers or industry  has
suffered  a catastrophic type  of loss or has  exhausted natural resources; (vi)
unfavorable changes in  forecasted cash  flows on  asset-backed securities;  and
(vii)   other  subjective  factors,  including  concentrations  and  information
obtained from  regulators and  rating  agencies. In  addition, the  earnings  on
certain  investments are dependent upon market conditions, which could result in
prepayments and changes in amounts to  be earned due to changing interest  rates
or  equity markets. The  determination of fair  values in the  absence of quoted
market values  is based  on: (i)  valuation methodologies;  (ii) securities  the
Company  deems to be comparable; and  (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given
the circumstances. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a
material effect on the  estimated fair value amounts.  In addition, the  Company
enters  into  certain  structured  investment  transactions,  real  estate joint
ventures and limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be  the
primary  beneficiary  and,  therefore,  may  be  required  to  consolidate  such
investments.  The  accounting  rules  for  the  determination  of  the   primary
beneficiary  are complex  and require evaluation  of the  contractual rights and
obligations associated with each  party involved in the  entity, an estimate  of
the entity's expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of
such estimates to each party.

  DERIVATIVES

     The  Company enters into freestanding  derivative transactions primarily to
manage the risk  associated with variability  in cash flows  or changes in  fair
values  related to the Company's financial assets and liabilities or to changing
fair values. The Company also uses derivative instruments to hedge its  currency
exposure  associated  with net  investments in  certain foreign  operations. The
Company also purchases investment securities, issues certain insurance  policies
and  engages  in  certain  reinsurance  contracts  that  embed  derivatives. The
associated financial statement risk  is the volatility in  net income which  can
result  from  (i)  changes  in  fair  value  of  derivatives  not  qualifying as
accounting  hedges;  (ii)  ineffectiveness  of  designated  hedges;  and   (iii)
counterparty  default. In  addition, there is  a risk  that embedded derivatives
requiring bifurcation  are not  identified and  reported at  fair value  in  the
consolidated  financial statements.  Accounting for  derivatives is  complex, as
evidenced by significant authoritative interpretations of the primary accounting
standards which continue  to evolve, as  well as the  significant judgments  and
estimates  involved in  determining fair value  in the absence  of quoted market
values. These estimates  are based  on valuation  methodologies and  assumptions
deemed  appropriate  in the  circumstances.  Such assumptions  include estimated
volatility and interest  rates used  in the  determination of  fair value  where
quoted  market values  are not available.  The use of  different assumptions may
have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

     The Company incurs significant costs  in connection with acquiring new  and
renewal  insurance  business. These  costs, which  vary  with and  are primarily
related to the production of that  business, are deferred. The recovery of  such
costs  is dependent upon  the future profitability of  the related business. The
amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess
of the amounts credited to policyholders,

                                        43
<PAGE>

mortality,  morbidity,  persistency,  interest  crediting  rates,  expenses   to
administer  the  business,  creditworthiness of  reinsurance  counterparties and
certain economic variables,  such as  inflation. Of these  factors, the  Company
anticipates  that  investment returns  are  most likely  to  impact the  rate of
amortization of such costs. The  aforementioned factors enter into  management's
estimates  of gross  margins and profits,  which generally are  used to amortize
such costs. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed  in
the  reporting period in  which the revisions  are made and  could result in the
impairment of the asset and a charge to income if estimated future gross margins
and profits are less  than amounts deferred. In  addition, the Company  utilizes
the  reversion  to the  mean assumption,  a standard  industry practice,  in its
determination of the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs  ("DAC"),
including  value of business  acquired ("VOBA"). This  practice assumes that the
expectation for long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by minor
short-term market  fluctuations, but  that  it does  change when  large  interim
deviations have occurred.

  FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS

     The  Company establishes  liabilities for  amounts payable  under insurance
policies,  including  traditional  life  insurance,  annuities  and   disability
insurance.  Generally, amounts are  payable over an extended  period of time and
liabilities are  established  based on  methods  and underlying  assumptions  in
accordance  with GAAP and applicable  actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
used in  the  establishment  of  liabilities  for  future  policy  benefits  are
mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns and inflation.

     The  Company  also establishes  liabilities  for unpaid  claims  and claims
expenses for  property  and casualty  insurance.  Liabilities for  property  and
casualty  insurance are  dependent on  estimates of  amounts payable  for claims
reported but not settled and claims  incurred but not reported. These  estimates
are  influenced by historical experience  and actuarial assumptions with respect
to current developments, anticipated trends and risk management strategies.

     Differences between the actual experience  and assumptions used in  pricing
these  policies and in  the establishment of liabilities  result in variances in
profit and could result in losses.

 REINSURANCE

     The Company enters into reinsurance transactions  as both a provider and  a
purchaser  of reinsurance. Accounting for  reinsurance requires extensive use of
assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the
underlying business and the potential  impact of counterparty credit risks.  The
Company  periodically reviews actual and  anticipated experience compared to the
aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating  to
ceded   and  assumed  reinsurance  and   evaluates  the  financial  strength  of
counterparties to  its reinsurance  agreements using  criteria similar  to  that
evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally,
for  each  of  its reinsurance  contracts,  the  Company must  determine  if the
contract  provides  indemnification  against  loss  or  liability  relating   to
insurance  risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company
must review  all contractual  features, particularly  those that  may limit  the
amount  of insurance  risk to  which the reinsurer  is subject  or features that
delay the  timely reimbursement  of claims.  If the  Company determines  that  a
reinsurance  contract does not expose the  reinsurer to a reasonable possibility
of a significant  loss from  insurance risk,  the Company  records the  contract
using the deposit method of accounting.

 LITIGATION

     The  Company is a  party to a  number of legal  actions. Given the inherent
unpredictability of  litigation,  it is  difficult  to estimate  the  impact  of
litigation  on the  Company's consolidated  financial position.  Liabilities are
established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount  of
the  loss can be reasonably estimated.  Liabilities related to certain lawsuits,
including the Company's asbestos-related liability, are especially difficult  to
estimate  due  to the  limitation of  available  data and  uncertainty regarding
numerous variables used to  determine amounts recorded.  The data and  variables
that  impact  the assumption  used  to estimate  the  Company's asbestos-related
liability include the number of future  claims, the cost to resolve claims,  the
disease  mix and  severity of  disease, the  jurisdiction of  claims filed, tort
reform efforts and the

                                        44
<PAGE>

impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. It is possible
that  an  adverse  outcome in  certain  of the  Company's  litigation, including
asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination
of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Company's consolidated
net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company sponsors pension  and other retirement  plans in various  forms
covering  employees who  meet specified  eligibility requirements.  The reported
expense and liability associated with these  plans requires an extensive use  of
assumptions  which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and
rate of future compensation increases  as determined by the Company.  Management
determines  these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry
data, historical performance of the plan  and its assets, and consultation  with
an  independent consulting  actuarial firm  to aid  it in  selecting appropriate
assumptions and valuing its related liabilities. The actuarial assumptions  used
in  the calculation of the Company's  aggregate projected benefit obligation may
vary and  include an  expectation  of long-term  market appreciation  in  equity
markets  which is not changed by  minor short-term market fluctuations, but does
change when  large  interim deviations  occur.  These assumptions  used  by  the
Company  may differ  materially from actual  results due to  changing market and
economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter  life
spans  of the participants.  These differences may have  a significant effect on
the Company's consolidated financial statements and liquidity.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2002 -- THE COMPANY

  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

     MetLife, Inc.,  through  its  affiliates and  subsidiaries,  is  a  leading
provider  of  insurance and  other  financial services  to  a broad  spectrum of
individual and  institutional  customers.  The Company  offers  life  insurance,
annuities,  automobile and homeowners insurance and mutual funds to individuals,
as well as group insurance, reinsurance, and retirement and savings products and
services to corporations  and other  institutions. The  MetLife companies  serve
approximately  13  million  households  in  the  U.S.  and  provide  benefits to
approximately 37  million  employees  and  family  members  through  their  plan
sponsors  including 88 of the FORTUNE  100 largest companies. MetLife, Inc. also
has  direct  international   insurance  operations  in   10  countries   serving
approximately  8  million  customers.  MetLife is  organized  into  six business
segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto & Home, International, Reinsurance and
Asset Management.

     The marketplace for financial  services is extremely competitive.  MetLife,
the  largest life  insurer in  the United States,  reported $2.2  billion in net
income and diluted earnings per share of  $2.94 for the year ended December  31,
2003.  In 2003, after a three-year economic slowdown, there were improvements in
both the credit and equity markets. At the same time, interest rates remained at
historic lows and the S&P 500 Index was up 26% for the year. Total premiums  and
fees  increased to  $23.2 billion,  up 9% over  the prior  year, which primarily
stems from continued sales growth across most of the Company's segments, as well
as the positive  impact of  the U.S. financial  markets on  policy fees.  Assets
under  management  grew to  $350.2  billion, up  17%  over the  prior  year, and
Individual annuity deposits grew to $11.2  billion, up 42% over the prior  year.
MetLife  generated over $11  billion of net investment  income while adhering to
rigorous asset-liability management principles and portfolio diversification. An
increase  in   expenses   year   over  year   is   primarily   attributable   to
employee-related  expenses, including pension and postretirement benefit expense
and severance, expenses associated with strengthening the Company's distribution
systems  and  taking   action  in  consolidating   office  space  and   reducing
redundancies, while continuing to invest heavily in infrastructure. In addition,
regulatory  capital  increased and  the  Company repurchased  stock  through its
buyback program.

                                        45
<PAGE>

  INDUSTRY TRENDS

     The  Company's segments continue to be  influenced by a variety of industry
trends and  it is  the Company's  belief that  each of  its businesses  is  well
positioned to capitalize on those trends.

     In  general, the  Company is seeing  more employers, both  large and small,
outsourcing their benefits  functions. Further, companies  are offering  broader
new arrays of voluntary benefits to help retain employees while adding little to
their  overall benefits  costs. These  trends will  likely continue  and in fact
expand across companies of all  sizes. Employers are also demanding  substantial
online  access  for their  employees  for various  self-service  functions. This
functionality  requires  substantial  information  technology  investment   that
smaller companies will find difficult to absorb. This will put pressure on those
smaller and mid-size companies to gain scale quickly or exit the business.

     In  addition, alternative benefit structures,  such as simple fixed benefit
products, are  becoming  more  popular  as  the  traditional  medical  indemnity
products  costs have continued to increase rapidly. These low cost fixed benefit
products can provide effective catastrophic  protection for high cost  illnesses
to supplement the basic health coverage provided by medical indemnity insurance.

     From  a demographics standpoint, the bulk  of the U.S. population is moving
from an asset accumulation phase to  an asset distribution phase. People  within
ten  years of retirement  hold significant assets.  With continually lengthening
lifespans and  unstructured asset  distribution, the  Company believes  many  of
these people may outlive their retirement savings and/or require long-term care.
As a result, the Company expects that the demand for retirement payout solutions
with guarantees will increase dramatically over the next decade.

     The  combination of  these trends will  favor those with  scale, breadth of
distribution and product, ability  to provide advice  and financial strength  to
support the long-term guarantees.

 DISCUSSION OF RESULTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------------
                                                               2003      2002     % CHANGE
                                                              -------   -------   --------
                                                                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
Premiums....................................................  $20,673   $19,077       8%
Universal life and investment-type product policy fees......    2,496     2,147      16%
Net investment income.......................................   11,636    11,261       3%
Other revenues..............................................    1,342     1,332       1%
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable from
  other accounts of ($215) and ($145), respectively)........     (358)     (751)     52%
                                                              -------   -------
     Total revenues.........................................   35,789    33,066       8%
                                                              -------   -------
</Table>

                                        46
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------------
                                                               2003      2002     % CHANGE
                                                              -------   -------   --------
                                                                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts directly
  related to net investment gains (losses) of ($184) and
  ($150), respectively).....................................   20,848    19,523       7%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances..........    3,035     2,950       3%
Policyholder dividends......................................    1,975     1,942       2%
Other expenses (excludes amounts directly related to net
  investment gains (losses) of ($31) and $5,
  respectively).............................................    7,301     7,015       4%
                                                              -------   -------
     Total expenses.........................................   33,159    31,430       6%
                                                              -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes..............................................    2,630     1,636      61%
Provision for income taxes..................................      687       502      37%
                                                              -------   -------
Income from continuing operations...........................    1,943     1,134      71%
Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes....      300       471     (36)%
                                                              -------   -------
Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting.....    2,243     1,605      40%
Cumulative effect of change in accounting, net of income
  taxes.....................................................      (26)       --
                                                              -------   -------
Net income..................................................  $ 2,217   $ 1,605      38%
                                                              =======   =======
</Table>

     Income  from continuing  operations increased by  $809 million,  or 71%, to
$1,943 million for the year ended December  31, 2003 from $1,134 million in  the
comparable 2002 period. Income from continuing operations for the years 2003 and
2002  includes the impact of  certain transactions or events  that result in net
income not  being indicative  of future  earnings, which  are described  in  the
applicable  segment's results of operations discussions. These items contributed
an after-tax benefit of  $159 million in  2003 and an  after-tax charge of  $150
million  in 2002.  Excluding the impact  of these items,  income from continuing
operations increased  by  $500 million  in  2003  compared to  the  prior  year.
Declines  in after-tax  net investment losses  account for $220  million of this
increase with the  balance being  contributed by the  Company's operations.  The
decline  in net investment losses is largely attributable to less credit-related
losses, which  is consistent  with the  U.S. financial  market environment.  The
Company  anticipates net  investment losses in  2004 to be  comparable with 2003
levels and  continues  to reflect  a  concentration of  interest-related  losses
rather than credit-related losses.

     Premiums,  fees  and  other  revenues  increased  9%  over  the  prior year
primarily as a  result of growth  in the annuities,  retirement and savings  and
variable  and universal  life product  lines. This  increase stems  in part from
policy fee income earned on annuity deposits, which were $11.2 billion in  2003,
increasing  42% from the  prior year. In addition,  the annuity separate account
balance was $28.7 billion  at December 31,  2003, up 57%  versus the prior  year
end. Growth in retirement & savings is primarily attributable to higher sales in
structured  settlement  products. Fee  income from  variable and  universal life
products increased 12% over the prior year primarily as a result of a 25% growth
in separate  account  balances.  In addition,  the  coinsurance  agreement  with
Allianz Life in the Reinsurance segment contributed approximately 1% to the year
over  year  increase.  Partially  offsetting these  increases  is  a  decline in
traditional life  premiums, which  is largely  attributable to  run off  in  the
Company's closed block of business.

     Investment  margins,  which  represent the  spread  between  net investment
income  and  interest  credited  to  policyholder  account  balances,   remained
favorable  in 2003 as the Company  took appropriate crediting rate reductions in
most products in an effort to keep pace with the market environment. In  several
product  lines, where investment margins are a substantial part of earnings, the
Company still has a reasonable amount  of flexibility to reduce crediting  rates
further  if  portfolio  yields  were  to  decline  from  year-end  2003  levels.
Investment margins  in 2003  did benefit  from higher  than expected  levels  of
prepayments, a trend that is not expected to continue in 2004.

                                        47
<PAGE>

     Underwriting  results  varied  in  2003.  The  group  life  mortality ratio
continues to be favorable at 92%.  The Individual life mortality ratio was  also
solid  at 88%, which includes the impact of several large claims in the variable
and universal product line, some of which had lower levels of reinsurance. Group
disability's morbidity ratio increased  to 98.5%, from 97.9%  in the prior  year
but is still within management's expected range. The Auto & Home combined ratio,
which  is a measure of both the loss  and loss adjustment expense ratio, as well
as the expense ratio,  remained favorable at  97.1% excluding catastrophes.  The
Company's International segment increased its loss recognition reserve in Taiwan
as  a result of low  interest rates relative to  product guarantees. This action
resulted in a $19 million after-tax charge.

     Other expenses  increased 4%  over the  prior year  period primarily  as  a
result of an increase of $133 million in pension and postretirement expenses. As
a  result of contributions made to the pension plan in late 2003 and early 2004,
which totaled approximately $750  million, and the  stronger performance of  the
pension   plan  assets  in  2003,  the   Company  anticipates  the  pension  and
postretirement expenses to moderate in 2004. Other expenses in 2003 also include
the impact  of  several actions  taken  by  management in  the  fourth  quarter,
including  lease  terminations, office  consolidations  and closures,  and asset
impairments. In addition, severance costs and expenses associated with strategic
initiatives at New  England Financial  contributed to the  increase in  expenses
year  over  year. Also,  there was  an increase  in many  of the  product lines'
volume-related expenses, which are in line with 2003 business growth.

     Net investment losses decreased  by $393 million, or  52%, to $358  million
for  the year ended December 31, 2003  from $751 million for the comparable 2002
period. This decrease reflects total investment losses, before offsets, of  $573
million.   The  Company's  investment  gains  and  losses  are  net  of  related
policyholder amounts. The amounts netted against investment gains and losses are
(i) amortization  of DAC,  to the  extent that  such amortization  results  from
investment  gains and  losses, (ii) adjustments  to participating contractholder
accounts when amounts equal to such  investment gains and losses are applied  to
the  contractholder's  accounts,  and  (iii)  adjustments  to  the  policyholder
dividend obligation resulting from investment gains and losses. Offsets  include
the  amortization  of DAC  of $31  million and  ($5) million  in 2003  and 2002,
respectively, and  changes  in  the policyholder  dividend  obligation  of  $144
million  and $157  million in  2003 and  2002, respectively,  and adjustments to
participating contracts  of $40  million  and ($7)  million  in 2003  and  2002,
respectively.  The dollar amount of the offsets may vary disproportionately with
net investment gains and losses based on the relationship of the underlying sold
securities to certain insurance products.

     The Company believes  its policy  of netting  related policyholder  amounts
against investment gains and losses provides important information in evaluating
its  performance. Investment  gains and losses  are often  excluded by investors
when evaluating  the  overall financial  performance  of insurers.  The  Company
believes its presentation enables readers to easily exclude investment gains and
losses  and the  related effects on  the consolidated statements  of income when
evaluating its performance. The Company's  presentation of investment gains  and
losses, net of policyholder amounts, may be different from the presentation used
by  other  insurance  companies  and,  therefore,  amounts  in  its consolidated
statements of  income  may  not  be comparable  to  amounts  reported  by  other
insurers.

     Income  tax expense for the year ended  December 31, 2003 was $687 million,
or 26% of income  from continuing operations before  provision for income  taxes
and  cumulative effect of  change in accounting, compared  with $502 million, or
31%, for the comparable  2002 period. The 2003  effective tax rate differs  from
the  corporate  tax rate  of  35% primarily  due  to the  impact  of non-taxable
investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, a recovery
of prior year tax overpayments on tax-exempt bonds, and an adjustment consisting
primarily of a revision in the estimate  of income taxes for 2002. In  addition,
the  2003 effective tax rate includes a  reduction of the deferred tax valuation
allowance related to certain foreign  net operating loss carryforwards, and  tax
benefits related to the sale and merger of foreign subsidiaries reflected in the
International  segment. The 2002  effective tax rate  differs from the corporate
tax rate of 35%  primarily due to the  impact of non-taxable investment  income,
partially  offset by  the inability to  utilize tax benefits  on certain foreign
capital losses.

     Income from discontinued operations declined $171 million, or 36%, to  $300
million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $471 million in the comparable
prior year period. The decrease is primarily due to

                                        48
<PAGE>

lower  recognized net investment gains from  real estate properties sold in 2003
as compared  to the  prior  year. The  income  from discontinued  operations  is
comprised  of  net  investment  income  and  net  investment  gains  related  to
properties that the  Company began  marketing for sale  on or  after January  1,
2002.  For the years  ended December 31,  2003 and 2002,  the Company recognized
$421 million  and  $582 million  of  net investment  gains,  respectively,  from
discontinued  operations  related to  real estate  properties sold  or held-for-
sale.

     The Company changed its  method of accounting  for embedded derivatives  in
certain  insurance products as required by  new accounting guidance which became
effective on October 1, 2003, and recorded the impact as a cumulative effect  of
a change in accounting principle.

                                        49
<PAGE>

INSTITUTIONAL

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
Institutional segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------------
                                                               2003      2002     % CHANGE
                                                              -------   -------   --------
                                                                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
Premiums....................................................  $ 9,093   $ 8,245       10%
Universal life and investment-type product policy fees......      635       624        2%
Net investment income.......................................    4,038     3,918        3%
Other revenues..............................................      592       609      (3)%
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable from
  other accounts of ($89) and $6, respectively).............     (204)     (494)      59%
                                                              -------   -------
  Total revenues............................................   14,154    12,902       10%
                                                              -------   -------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts directly
  related to net investment gains (losses) of ($89) and $6,
  respectively).............................................    9,932     9,339        6%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances..........      915       932      (2)%
Policyholder dividends......................................      198       115       72%
Other expenses..............................................    1,784     1,531       17%
                                                              -------   -------
  Total expenses............................................   12,829    11,917        8%
                                                              -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes..............................................    1,325       985       35%
Provision for income taxes..................................      480       347       38%
                                                              -------   -------
Income from continuing operations...........................      845       638       32%
Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes....       30       121     (75)%
                                                              -------   -------
Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting.....      875       759       15%
Cumulative effect of change in accounting, net of income
  taxes.....................................................      (26)       --
                                                              -------   -------
Net income..................................................  $   849   $   759       12%
                                                              =======   =======
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2002 -- INSTITUTIONAL

     The Company's Institutional segment offers a broad range of group insurance
and retirement  and savings  products  and services  to corporations  and  other
institutions.  Group insurance products  are offered as  either an employer-paid
benefit, or  as  a  voluntary  benefit  with  premiums  paid  by  the  employee.
Retirement  and savings  products and services  include an array  of annuity and
investment products, as well as  bundled administrative and investment  services
sold  to sponsors of small- and  mid-sized 401(k) and other defined contribution
plans.

     Income from continuing  operations increased  by $207 million,  or 32%,  to
$845  million for  the year ended  December 31,  2003 from $638  million for the
comparable 2002  period. Revenue  growth  combined with  favorable  underwriting
results  and interest margins contributed to  the year over year increase. Lower
net investment losses in 2003 versus 2002 contributed $185 million after-tax  to
the  year over  year increase.  Favorable underwriting  experience was partially
offset by an  increase in  expenses associated  with office  closures and  other
consolidations,  as well  as an increase  in pension  and postretirement benefit
costs. In  addition, the  prior year  period includes  a $20  million  after-tax
benefit from the release of a previously established liability for the Company's
2001  business realignment initiatives and a  $17 million after-tax benefit from
the   release   of   a   previously   established   liability   for   disability
insurance-related losses from the September 11, 2001 tragedies.

                                        50
<PAGE>

     Total  revenues, excluding  net investment  gains and  losses, increased by
$962 million, or 7%,  to $14,358 million  for the year  ended December 31,  2003
from   $13,396  million  for  the  comparable   2002  period.  The  increase  is
attributable to both the group insurance and the retirement and savings  product
lines.  Within group  insurance, life insurance  premiums and  fees increased by
$238 million,  or 5%,  which is  in line  with management's  expectations.  This
increase  is attributable primarily  to higher sales  and favorable persistency.
The late  2003 acquisition  of the  John Hancock  block of  group life  business
contributed  $72  million to  this increase.  In  addition, the  long-term care,
dental, and disability products experienced continued growth at a combined  rate
of   approximately  14%,  which  is  in  line  with  management's  expectations.
Retirement and savings  revenues increased  approximately 12%  primarily due  to
higher  sales  in the  structured settlement  products  partially offset  by the
impact of a sale of a significant, single premium contract in the second quarter
of 2002. Premiums and fees from retirement and saving products are significantly
influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from period  to
period.  These  increases  were  partially  offset  by  a  decrease  in revenues
primarily due to a  decline in retirement and  savings administrative fees  from
the  Company's 401(k)  business. This  decline resulted  from the  exit from the
large market 401(k) business  in late 2001.  Consequently, revenue decreased  as
business was transferred to other carriers throughout 2002.

     Total expenses increased by $912 million, or 8%, to $12,829 million for the
year  ended  December 31,  2003  from $11,917  million  for the  comparable 2002
period. Policyholder-related  expenses increased  $659  million primarily  as  a
function  of  the growth  in business.  The  increase in  expenses is  offset by
favorable underwriting results  in the  term life  insurance, dental,  long-term
care, and retirement and savings products. The term life mortality incurred loss
ratio,  which represents  actual life claims  as a percentage  of assumed claims
incurred used in the determination of  future policy benefits, was 92% for  2003
as compared to 93.6% in 2002. Underwriting results declined in disability as the
morbidity  incurred loss ratio,  which represents actual  disability claims as a
percentage of assumed claims incurred used in the determination of future policy
benefits, increased to  98.5% in 2003  from 97.9%  in the prior  year. The  2003
ratio  was  within management's  expected range.  In  addition, the  2002 period
includes a  $28  million  release  of a  previously  established  liability  for
disability insurance-related losses from the September 11, 2001 tragedies. Other
expenses  increased by $253 million over  the prior year period. Group insurance
and retirement and savings expenses increased  $115 million primarily due to  an
increase  in non-deferrable expenses associated  with the aforementioned revenue
growth, $77  million from  an  increase in  pension and  postretirement  benefit
expense,  and a $33 million increase in expenses associated with office closures
and other consolidations.  In addition,  the prior  year period  includes a  $30
million  release of  a previously established  liability for  the Company's 2001
business realignment initiatives.

                                        51
<PAGE>

INDIVIDUAL

     The following  table presents  consolidated financial  information for  the
Individual segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ----------------------------
                                                           2003      2002     % CHANGE
                                                          -------   -------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
Premiums................................................  $ 4,344   $ 4,507      (4)%
Universal life and investment-type product policy
  fees..................................................    1,589     1,379      15%
Net investment income...................................    6,201     6,244      (1)%
Other revenues..........................................      407       418      (3)%
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable
  from other accounts of ($177) and ($147),
  respectively).........................................     (130)     (144)    (10)%
                                                          -------   -------
  Total revenues........................................   12,411    12,404       0%
                                                          -------   -------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts
  directly related to net investment gains (losses) of
  ($144) and ($157), respectively)......................    5,183     5,220      (1)%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances......    1,793     1,793       0%
Policyholder dividends..................................    1,700     1,770      (4)%
Other expenses (excludes amounts directly related to net
  investment gains (losses) of ($33) and $10,
  respectively).........................................    2,880     2,629      10%
                                                          -------   -------
  Total expenses........................................   11,556    11,412       1%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes..........................................      855       992     (14)%
Provision for income taxes..............................      284       365     (22)%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations.......................      571       627      (9)%
Income from discontinued operations, net of income
  taxes.................................................       30       199     (85)%
                                                          -------   -------
Net income..............................................  $   601   $   826     (27)%
                                                          =======   =======
</Table>

 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 2002 -- INDIVIDUAL

     MetLife's  Individual segment offers a wide variety of protection and asset
accumulation products  aimed at  serving the  financial needs  of its  customers
throughout  their  entire life  cycle.  Products offered  by  Individual include
insurance products, such as traditional,  universal and variable life  insurance
and  variable and fixed annuities. In addition, Individual sales representatives
distribute disability insurance  and long-term care  insurance products  offered
through the Institutional segment, investment products, such as mutual funds, as
well as other products offered by the Company's other businesses.

     Income  from continuing operations decreased by $56 million, or 9%, to $571
million for  the  year  ended  December  31, 2003  from  $627  million  for  the
comparable  2002 period. The decrease  year over year is  primarily driven by an
increase in expenses of $144 million, or 1%, which is largely attributable to an
increase in expenses associated with  office closures and other  consolidations,
pension and postretirement benefit costs, an increase in legal-related costs and
an  adjustment related  to certain improperly  deferred expenses  at New England
Financial. Although revenues are  essentially flat year  over year, policy  fees
from  variable life and annuity and  investment-type products grew 15% year over
year. In  addition, there  is a  slight increase  in premiums  related to  other
traditional  life  products.  These increases  are  offset  by a  5%  decline in
premiums  from  the   Company's  closed  block   business,  which  consists   of
participating policies issued prior to the

                                        52
<PAGE>

Company's  demutualization. Premiums on the closed block represent approximately
80% of this segment's premiums for the year ended December 31, 2003.

     Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, decreased by  $7
million,  or less than  1%, to $12,541  million for the  year ended December 31,
2003 from  $12,548 million  for the  comparable 2002  period. Policy  fees  from
variable  life and  annuity and  investment-type products  grew by  15% over the
prior year period. This growth is primarily  a result of an 18% increase in  the
average separate account balances, which is largely attributable to improvements
in  the U.S. financial  markets. Additionally, this  increase is associated with
the aging of the in-force policies, as well  as an increase in the sales of  the
enterprise   variable  annuity  product   through  non-traditional  distribution
channels. Policy  fees  from  variable  life  and  annuity  and  investment-type
products  are typically calculated as a  percentage of average assets. The value
of these  assets can  fluctuate  depending on  equity market  performance.  This
increase in policy fee income was almost entirely offset by declines in premiums
and  net investment income. Premiums associated  with the Company's closed block
of business declined by $186 million, or 5%, which is in line with  management's
expectations,  as this business continues  to run-off. Partially offsetting this
decline is a slight increase in the other traditional life products. The decline
in net  investment income  is mainly  due to  the change  in capital  allocation
methodology and lower investment yields year over year.

     Total expenses increased by $144 million, or 1%, to $11,556 million for the
year  ended  December 31,  2003  from $11,412  million  for the  comparable 2002
period. Other expenses  increased by  $251 million  over the  prior year  period
primarily as a result of expenses associated with certain efficiency initiatives
and  events. The most significant items include  an increase of $67 million from
pension and postretirement benefit  expense, a $48  million expense recorded  in
the  second  quarter of  2003 for  an adjustment  related to  certain improperly
deferred expenses at New England  Financial, $42 million in expenses  associated
with   office  closures  and  other  consolidations,  $42  million  increase  in
legal-related costs, and other expenses associated with strategic initiatives at
New England  Financial. Offsetting  these  expense increases  are a  decline  in
policyholder  benefits consistent with the  aforementioned decline in the closed
block and a decrease in dividends due to the reduction of the dividend scale  in
the  fourth quarter of 2002, reflecting the impact of the low U.S. interest rate
environment on the asset portfolios supporting these policies.

                                        53
<PAGE>

AUTO & HOME

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
Auto & Home segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            --------------------------
                                                             2003     2002    % CHANGE
                                                            ------   ------   --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>      <C>
REVENUES
Premiums..................................................  $2,908   $2,828       3%
Net investment income.....................................     158      177     (11)%
Other revenues............................................      32       26      23%
Net investment gains (losses).............................     (15)     (46)    (67)%
                                                            ------   ------
  Total revenues..........................................   3,083    2,985       3%
                                                            ------   ------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims..........................   2,139    2,019       6%
Policyholder dividends....................................       1       --       0%
Other expenses............................................     756      793      (5)%
                                                            ------   ------
  Total expenses..........................................   2,896    2,812       3%
                                                            ------   ------
Income before provision for income taxes..................     187      173       8%
Provision for income taxes................................      30       41     (27)%
                                                            ------   ------
Net income................................................  $  157   $  132      19%
                                                            ======   ======
</Table>

 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 2002 -- AUTO & HOME

     Auto & Home, operating through Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
Company and  its  subsidiaries,  offers personal  lines  property  and  casualty
insurance  directly to employees through employer-sponsored programs, as well as
through a variety of retail distribution  channels. Auto & Home primarily  sells
auto and homeowners insurance.

     Net  income increased by $25 million, or  19%, to $157 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003  from $132 million for  the comparable 2002 period.  The
increase  in earnings  year over  year is  mainly due  to premium  growth, lower
investment losses  and a  reduction  in expenses,  partially offset  by  adverse
claims development.

     Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, increased by $67
million,  or 2%,  to $3,098 million  for the  year ended December  31, 2003 from
$3,031 million for the  comparable 2002 period. This  variance is mainly due  to
increases  in the average earned premium due to rate increases, partially offset
by lower  investment  income primarily  resulting  from the  change  in  capital
allocation methodology.

     Total  expenses increased by $84 million, or  3%, to $2,896 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,812 million for the comparable 2002 period.
Adverse claims development  related to  prior accident  years, resulting  mostly
from  bodily injury and uninsured motorists claims, accounted for $46 million of
the increase in policyholder  benefits. Also contributing  to this increase  are
higher  catastrophe losses of $22  million. Partially offsetting these increases
are improved non-catastrophe homeowners claims  frequencies, a reduction in  the
number  of auto  and homeowners policies  in-force, and  underwriting and agency
management actions. In addition, there was  a $23 million reduction in  expenses
resulting  from the  completion of  the St. Paul  integration and  a $35 million
reduction in  the cost  associated with  the New  York assigned  risk plan.  The
combined  ratio,  excluding  catastrophes,  which  represents  losses  and total
expenses including claims as a percentage of premiums, declined to 97.1% for the
year ended December 31, 2003 versus 97.4% for the comparable 2002 period.

                                        54
<PAGE>

INTERNATIONAL

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
International segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            --------------------------
                                                             2003     2002    % CHANGE
                                                            ------   ------   --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>      <C>
REVENUES
Premiums..................................................  $1,678   $1,511      11%
Universal life and investment-type product policy fees....     272      144      89%
Net investment income.....................................     502      461       9%
Other revenues............................................      80       14     471%
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable
  from other accounts of $3 and $0, respectively).........       4       (9)    144%
                                                            ------   ------
  Total revenues..........................................   2,536    2,121      20%
                                                            ------   ------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts
  directly related to net investment gains (losses) of $3
  and $0, respectively)...................................   1,454    1,388       5%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances........     143       79      81%
Policyholder dividends....................................      55       35      57%
Other expenses............................................     659      507      30%
                                                            ------   ------
  Total expenses..........................................   2,311    2,009      15%
                                                            ------   ------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes............................................     225      112     101%
Provision for income taxes................................      17       28     (39)%
                                                            ------   ------
Net income................................................  $  208   $   84     148%
                                                            ======   ======
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2002 -- INTERNATIONAL

     International provides  life  insurance,  accident  and  health  insurance,
annuities  and savings and  retirement products to  both individuals and groups,
and auto and homeowners coverage to individuals. The Company focuses on emerging
markets in the Latin America and Asia/Pacific regions.

     Net income increased by $124 million, or 148%, to $208 million for the year
ended December 31,  2003 from $84  million for the  comparable 2002 period.  The
acquisition  of  Hidalgo  accounted  for  $48  million  of  this  increase. Also
contributing to the increase in earnings during 2003 is a $62 million  after-tax
benefit   from  the  merger  of  the  Mexican  operations  and  a  reduction  in
policyholder liabilities resulting from a  change in reserve methodology, a  $12
million  tax benefit  in Chile  and an $8  million after-tax  benefit related to
reinsurance treaties.  These increases  are partially  offset by  a $19  million
after-tax  charge in Taiwan related to an increased loss recognition reserve due
to low interest rates relative to product guarantees.

     Total revenues, excluding  net investment  gains and  losses, increased  by
$402  million, or 19%,  to $2,532 million  for the year  ended December 31, 2003
from $2,130 million for the comparable  2002 period. This increase is  primarily
due  to the  acquisition of  Hidalgo, which  accounted for  $469 million  of the
variance, partially offset by decreases  in Canada of $106 million  attributable
to  a non-recurring sale of an annuity  contract and $28 million relating to the
restructuring of  a  pension  contract  from an  investment-type  product  to  a
long-term  annuity, both of which occurred  in 2002. In addition, South Korea's,
Chile's and Taiwan's  revenues increased by  $102 million, $60  million and  $36
million,  respectively, primarily  due to  business growth.  These increases are
partially offset  by  a $161  million  decrease in  Mexico,  excluding  Hidalgo.
Anticipated  actions  taken by  the  Mexican government  adversely  impacted the
insurance and annuities market

                                        55
<PAGE>

and resulted in  a decline  in premiums in  Mexico's group  and individual  life
businesses.  In addition, the  cancellation of a  large broker-sponsored case at
the end of  2002 and  the weakening  of the peso  also contributed  to the  2003
decline in Mexico.

     Total expenses increased by $302 million, or 15%, to $2,311 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,009 million for the comparable 2002 period.
The  acquisition of Hidalgo contributed $394 million to this increase. Partially
offsetting  this  is  a  decrease   of  $106  million  for  the   aforementioned
non-recurring  sale of an annuity contract and a decrease of $28 million for the
restructuring of  a  pension  contract,  both of  which  occurred  in  2002.  In
addition, South Korea's, Chile's and Taiwan's expenses increased by $95 million,
$65  million  and  $64  million,  respectively,  commensurate  with  the revenue
increases in each country. Additionally, Taiwan's expenses include a $30 million
pre-tax charge due to an increased loss  recognition reserve as a result of  low
interest  rates relative  to product  guarantees. These  increases are partially
offset by a $251 million decrease in Mexico, other than Hidalgo, primarily as  a
result  of the  impact on  expenses from  the aforementioned  revenue decline in
Mexico and  a reduction  in  policyholder liabilities  related  to a  change  in
reserve methodology.

REINSURANCE

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
Reinsurance segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            --------------------------
                                                             2003     2002    % CHANGE
                                                            ------   ------   --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>      <C>
REVENUES
Premiums..................................................  $2,668   $2,005       33%
Net investment income.....................................     473      421       12%
Other revenues............................................      49       43       14%
Net investment gains (losses).............................      31        2    1,450%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total revenues.......................................   3,221    2,471       30%
                                                            ------   ------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims..........................   2,136    1,554       37%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances........     184      146       26%
Policyholder dividends....................................      21       22       (5)%
Other expenses............................................     740      622       19%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total expenses.......................................   3,081    2,344       31%
                                                            ------   ------
Income before provision for income taxes..................     140      127       10%
Provision for income taxes................................      48       43       12%
                                                            ------   ------
Net income................................................  $   92   $   84       10%
                                                            ======   ======
</Table>

 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 2002 -- REINSURANCE

     MetLife's Reinsurance segment is comprised of the life reinsurance business
of Reinsurance  Group  of  America,  Incorporated  ("RGA"),  a  publicly  traded
company,  and MetLife's ancillary life  reinsurance business. RGA has operations
in North America and has subsidiary companies, branch offices, or representative
offices in Australia, Barbados, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, Mexico,  South
Africa, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.

     Net  income increased by  $8 million, or  10%, to $92  million for the year
ended December 31,  2003 from $84  million for the  comparable 2002 period.  The
increase  in earnings year  over year is primarily  attributable to new business
growth, additional renewal premiums,  as well as  a large coinsurance  agreement
with  Allianz Life  Insurance Company  of North  America ("Allianz  Life") under
which RGA  assumed 100%  of  Allianz Life's  U.S. traditional  life  reinsurance
business.

                                        56
<PAGE>

     Total  revenues, excluding  net investment  gains and  losses, increased by
$721 million, or 29%,  to $3,190 million  for the year  ended December 31,  2003
from  $2,469 million for the comparable  2002 period. This increase is primarily
due to new premiums from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums
on existing blocks  of business,  particularly in  the U.S.  and United  Kingdom
reinsurance  operations.  In  addition, there  was  a $252  million  increase in
revenues due to the transaction with Allianz Life in late 2003.

     Total expenses increased by $737 million, or 31%, to $3,081 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 from $2,344 million for the comparable 2002 period.
This increase  is  consistent with  the  growth  in revenues  and  is  primarily
attributable  to policyholder benefits and claims and allowances paid on assumed
reinsurance, particularly on  certain higher commission  business in the  United
Kingdom.  The  aforementioned  transaction with  Allianz  Life  contributed $242
million to this increase.

ASSET MANAGEMENT

     The following  table presents  consolidated financial  information for  the
Asset Management segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------
                                                              2003    2002    % CHANGE
                                                              -----   -----   ---------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
REVENUES
Net investment income.......................................  $ 66    $ 59        12%
Other revenues..............................................   143     166       (14)%
Net investment gains (losses)...............................     9      (4)      325%
                                                              ----    ----
     Total revenues.........................................   218     221        (1)%
                                                              ----    ----
OTHER EXPENSES..............................................   182     211       (14)%
                                                              ----    ----
Income before provision for income taxes....................    36      10       260%
Provision for income taxes..................................    14       4       250%
                                                              ----    ----
Net income..................................................  $ 22    $  6       267%
                                                              ====    ====
</Table>

 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 2002 -- ASSET MANAGEMENT

     Asset  Management, through  SSRM Holdings, Inc.  ("State Street Research"),
provides a broad variety of asset  management products and services to  MetLife,
third-party   institutions  and   individuals.  State   Street  Research  offers
investment management  services  in  all major  investment  disciplines  through
multiple   channels  of  distribution  in  both  the  retail  and  institutional
marketplaces.

     Net income increased by $16 million, or  267%, to $22 million for the  year
ended  December 31,  2003 from  $6 million for  the comparable  2002 period. The
increase year over year is mainly due  to expense reductions and an increase  in
net  investment gains in 2003. These improvements were partially offset by lower
revenues earned as a result of a reduction in average assets under management.

     Total revenues, excluding net investment gains and losses, decreased by $16
million, or 7%, to $209 million for  the year ended December 31, 2003 from  $225
million  for the comparable 2002 period. This decrease is primarily attributable
to a  decline in  revenues  earned on  lower  average assets  under  management,
despite an increase in ending assets under management of 7% to $47.5 billion for
the  year ended  December 31,  2003 from $44.6  billion for  the comparable 2002
period. In  addition, performance  fees of  $10 million  earned during  2003  on
certain  investment products, were lower than  the $14 million earned during the
comparable 2002 period.

     Other expenses decreased by  $29 million, or 14%,  to $182 million for  the
year  ended December 31, 2003 from $211  million for the comparable 2002 period.
Compensation-related expenses  declined $17  million primarily  as a  result  of
staff   reductions  undertaken  in  the  third  and  fourth  quarters  of  2002.
Additionally,

                                        57
<PAGE>

variable  expenses  declined $6  million largely  as a  result of  lower average
assets under management. General and administrative expenses declined $6 million
due to lower spending.

CORPORATE & OTHER

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2002 -- CORPORATE & OTHER

     Corporate & Other contains the excess capital not allocated to the business
segments, as  well as  expenses associated  with the  resolution of  proceedings
alleging  race-conscious  underwriting practices,  sales practices  and asbestos
related claims, and interest  expense related to the  majority of the  Company's
outstanding debt.

     Income  and loss from  continuing operations increased  by $485 million, or
111%, to $48 million for  the year ended December 31,  2003 from a loss of  $437
million  for the comparable 2002 period. The  2003 period includes a $92 million
after-tax benefit from a reduction of a previously established liability related
to the  Company's  race conscious  underwriting  settlement and  a  $36  million
benefit  from a revision of the estimate of income tax for 2002. The 2002 period
includes a  $169  million  after-tax  charge  to  cover  costs  associated  with
asbestos-related   claims,  a  $48  million  after-tax  charge  to  cover  costs
associated with the resolution of a federal government investigation of  General
American Life Insurance Company's ("General American") former Medicare business,
and  a $30  million after-tax  reduction of  a previously  established liability
related to  the  Company's  sales  practice class  action  settlement  in  1999.
Excluding  the impact of these items, the increase in earnings year over year is
mainly due to higher investment income.

     Total revenues, excluding  net investment  gains and  losses, increased  by
$201  million, or 1,117%, to  $219 million for the  year ended December 31, 2003
from $18 million for the comparable 2002 period. This variance is mainly due  to
higher  investment  income  resulting  from  the  change  in  capital allocation
methodology, as  well as  increases  in income  from corporate  joint  ventures,
equity-linked notes and securities lending.

     Total  expenses decreased by $421 million, or  58%, to $304 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 from  $725 million for the comparable 2002  period.
The  2003 period includes  a $144 million reduction  of a previously established
liability related to the  Company's race-conscious underwriting settlement.  The
2002   period  includes  a  $266  million   charge  to  increase  the  Company's
asbestos-related liability  and  expenses to  cover  costs associated  with  the
resolution  of federal  government investigations  of General  American's former
Medicare business.

                                        58
<PAGE>

     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2001 -- THE COMPANY

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ----------------------------
                                                           2002      2001     % CHANGE
                                                          -------   -------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
Premiums................................................  $19,077   $17,212      11%
Universal life and investment-type product policy
  fees..................................................    2,147     1,889      14%
Net investment income...................................   11,261    11,187       1%
Other revenues..........................................    1,332     1,507     (12)%
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable
  to other accounts of ($145) and ($134),
  respectively).........................................     (751)     (579)     30%
                                                          -------   -------
     Total revenues.....................................   33,066    31,216       6%
                                                          -------   -------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts
  directly related to net investment gains (losses) of
  ($150) and ($159), respectively)......................   19,523    18,454       6%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances......    2,950     3,084      (4)%
Policyholder dividends..................................    1,942     2,086      (7)%
Other expenses (excludes amounts directly related to net
  investment gains (losses) of $5 and $25,
  respectively).........................................    7,015     7,022      (0)%
                                                          -------   -------
     Total expenses.....................................   31,430    30,646       3%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes..........................................    1,636       570     187%
Provision for income taxes..............................      502       204     146%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations.......................    1,134       366     210%
Income from discontinued operations, net of income
  taxes.................................................      471       107     340%
                                                          -------   -------
Net income..............................................  $ 1,605   $   473     239%
                                                          =======   =======
</Table>

     Premiums increased by $1,865  million, or 11%, to  $19,077 million for  the
year  ended  December 31,  2002  from $17,212  million  for the  comparable 2001
period.  This  variance   is  primarily   attributable  to   increases  in   the
Institutional,  International and Reinsurance segments.  A $957 million increase
in Institutional  is largely  due to  sales growth  in its  group life,  dental,
disability and long-term care businesses, a sale of a significant retirement and
savings  contract in the second quarter of 2002, as well as new sales throughout
2002 in this segment's structured settlements and traditional annuity  products.
The  June 2002 acquisition of Hidalgo, the 2001 acquisitions in Chile and Brazil
and the sale of an annuity contract in  the first quarter of 2002 to a  Canadian
trust   company  are  the  primary  drivers   of  a  $665  million  increase  in
International. A portion of the  increase in International is also  attributable
to  business growth  in South Korea,  Mexico (excluding Hidalgo)  and Taiwan. In
addition, an increase in Canada due  to the restructuring of a pension  contract
from  an  investment-type product  to a  long-term  annuity contributed  to this
variance. New  premiums from  facultative and  automatic treaties,  and  renewal
premiums  on existing blocks of business  contributed to a $243 million increase
in the Reinsurance segment.

     Universal life and  investment-type product policy  fees increased by  $258
million,  or 14%, to  $2,147 million for  the year ended  December 31, 2002 from
$1,889 million  for  the comparable  2001  period. This  variance  is  primarily
attributable to the Individual, International and Institutional segments. A $119
million  favorable variance in Individual  is due to an  increase in policy fees
from insurance products, primarily  due to higher  revenue from insurance  fees,
which  increase  as  the  average separate  account  asset  base  supporting the
underlying minimum death benefits declines.  The average separate account  asset
base has declined in 2002 in
                                        59
<PAGE>

response to poor equity market performance. These increases are partially offset
by  lower  policy  fees  from  annuity  and  investment-type  products generally
resulting  from  poor  equity  market  performance  despite  growth  in  annuity
deposits.  A  $106  million increase  in  International  is largely  due  to the
acquisition of Hidalgo and  the acquisitions in Chile,  partially offset by  the
cessation  of product lines offered through a joint venture with Banco Santander
Central Hispano, S.A., ("Banco  Santander") in 2001. A  $32 million increase  in
Institutional  is principally  due to  a fee related  to the  renegotiation of a
portion of a bank-owned life insurance  contract, as well as growth in  existing
business in the group universal life product.

     Net  investment income increased by $74  million, or 1%, to $11,261 million
for the year  ended December 31,  2002 from $11,187  million for the  comparable
2001  period. This  variance is primarily  attributable to increases  of (i) $58
million, or 1%, in income  from fixed maturities, (ii)  $62 million, or 15%,  in
income  from real estate and real estate joint ventures held-for-investment, net
of investment expenses and depreciation, (iii) $35 million, or 2%, in income  on
mortgage  loans on real  estate, (iv) $7  million, or 1%,  in interest income on
policy loans, and  (v) lower  investment expenses of  $9 million,  or 4%.  These
variances  are partially  offset by  decreases of  (i) $47  million, or  17%, in
income on cash, cash equivalents  and short-term investments, (ii) $39  million,
or  17%, in income on  other invested assets, and (iii)  $11 million, or 10%, in
income from equity securities and other limited partnership interests.

     The increase in income from fixed maturities to $8,076 million in 2002 from
$8,018 million  in  2001  is largely  due  to  a higher  asset  base,  primarily
resulting from increased cash flows from sales of insurance and the acquisitions
in  Mexico and Chile. In  addition, securities lending income  was higher due to
increased activity and a more favorable  cost of funds. The increases in  income
from  fixed maturities  are partially offset  by decreases  resulting from lower
reinvestment rates and a decline in bond prepayment fees. The increase in income
from real  estate and  real estate  joint ventures  held-for-investment to  $477
million  in 2002 from $415  million in 2001 is primarily  due to the transfer of
the Company's One Madison Avenue, New York property from a company use  property
to  an investment property in 2002. The  increase in income on mortgage loans on
real estate  to $1,883  million  in 2002  from $1,848  million  in 2001  is  due
primarily  to a higher asset base from  new loan production, partially offset by
lower mortgage rates. The increase in interest income from policy loans to  $543
million  in 2002  from $536 million  in 2001  is largely due  to increased loans
outstanding. The decrease in income  from cash, cash equivalents and  short-term
investments  to  $232  million in  2002  from $279  million  in 2001  is  due to
declining interest rates coupled with a decrease in the asset base. The decrease
in net investment income from other invested assets to $186 million in 2002 from
$225 million in 2001 is largely due to lower derivative income, partially offset
by an increase in reinsurance contracts' funds withheld at interest. The decline
in income from equity securities and other limited partnership interests to  $99
million in 2002 from $110 million in 2001 primarily resulted from lower dividend
income  from  equity securities,  partially offset  by higher  limited corporate
partnership distributions.

     The increase in net investment income  is attributable to increases in  the
International,   Individual  and  Reinsurance   segments,  partially  offset  by
decreases in Corporate & Other, and the Institutional and Auto & Home  segments.
A $194 million increase in International is due to a higher asset base resulting
from  the acquisitions in Mexico and  Chile. Individual increased by $79 million
primarily due to  higher income  from securities lending  and limited  corporate
partnership distributions, partially offset by lower bond prepayment fee income.
The Reinsurance segment increased $31 million largely resulting from an increase
in  reinsurance contracts' funds withheld at interest. The decrease in Corporate
& Other of $146  million is due  to a lower asset  base, resulting from  funding
International's  acquisitions  in Mexico  and Chile,  as  well as  the Company's
common stock  repurchases, partially  offset by  higher income  from  securities
lending.  Institutional  decreased  $49  million predominantly  as  a  result of
decreased limited  partnership,  equity-linked  note  and  bond  prepayment  fee
income.  Auto & Home  decreased $23 million primarily  due to lower reinvestment
rates.

     Other revenues decreased by $175 million, or 12%, to $1,332 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,507 million for the comparable 2001 period.
This  variance  is  primarily  attributable  to  decreases  in  the  Individual,
Institutional,  Asset  Management  segments and  Corporate  &  Other. Individual
decreased by  $77  million  resulting  from  lower  commission  and  fee  income
associated  with decreased volume in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries as
a  result  of  the  depressed  equity   markets.  A  $40  million  decrease   in
Institutional is primarily due to a $73 million reduction in administrative fees
as a result of the Company's exit
                                        60
<PAGE>

from the large market 401(k) business in late 2001, as well as lower fees earned
on  investments in separate accounts resulting generally from poor equity market
performance. This reduction  is partially offset  by a $33  million increase  in
group  insurance due  to growth in  the administrative service  businesses and a
settlement received in 2002 related to the Company's former medical business.  A
$32 million decrease in Asset Management is primarily due to the sale of Conning
in  July  2001.  In  addition,  Corporate  &  Other  decreased  by  $29  million
principally due to  the remeasurement of  the Company's reinsurance  recoverable
associated  with the sales practices  reinsurance treaty in 2001,  as well as an
increase in the elimination of intersegment activity. This was partially  offset
from  a gain on  the sale of  a company-occupied building,  and income earned on
corporate-owned life insurance ("COLI") purchased during 2002.

     The Company's investment gains and  losses are net of related  policyholder
amounts.  The  amounts  netted  against  investment  gains  and  losses  are (i)
amortization  of  DAC,  to  the  extent  that  such  amortization  results  from
investment  gains and  losses, (ii) adjustments  to participating contractholder
accounts when amounts equal to such  investment gains and losses are applied  to
the  contractholder's  accounts,  and  (iii)  adjustments  to  the  policyholder
dividend obligation resulting from investment gains and losses.

     Net investment gains and losses increased by $172 million, or 30%, to  $751
million  for  the  year  ended  December 31,  2002  from  $579  million  for the
comparable 2001 period. This increase reflects total investment gains  (losses),
before  offsets, of $896 million (including gross gains of $1,836 million, gross
losses of $1,091  million, writedowns  of $1,501 million,  and a  net loss  from
derivatives  of  $140  million  which  includes  scheduled  periodic  settlement
payments on  derivatives  that  do  not qualify  for  hedge  accounting  of  $32
million),  an  increase of  $183 million,  or  26%, from  $713 million  in 2001.
Offsets include the  amortization of DAC  of ($5) million  and ($25) million  in
2002 and 2001, respectively, and changes in the policyholder dividend obligation
of $157 million and $159 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, and adjustments
to  participating contracts of  ($7) million in 2002.  Refer to "-- Investments"
beginning on page 86 for a discussion of the Company's investment portfolio.

     The Company believes  its policy  of netting  related policyholder  amounts
against investment gains and losses provides important information in evaluating
its  performance. Investment  gains and losses  are often  excluded by investors
when evaluating  the  overall financial  performance  of insurers.  The  Company
believes its presentation enables readers to easily exclude investment gains and
losses  and the  related effects on  the consolidated statements  of income when
evaluating its performance. The Company's  presentation of investment gains  and
losses, net of policyholder amounts, may be different from the presentation used
by  other  insurance  companies  and,  therefore,  amounts  in  its consolidated
statements of  income  may  not  be comparable  to  amounts  reported  by  other
insurers.

     Policyholder  benefits and  claims increased by  $1,069 million,  or 6%, to
$19,523 million for the  year ended December 31,  2002 from $18,454 million  for
the  comparable 2001 period.  This variance is attributable  to increases in the
International, Institutional  and Reinsurance  segments, partially  offset by  a
decrease in the Auto & Home segment. A $699 million increase in International is
primarily  due  to the  acquisition of  Hidalgo, the  acquisitions in  Chile and
Brazil, the aforementioned sale of an  annuity contract, the restructuring of  a
Canadian  pension contract and business growth in South Korea, Mexico (excluding
Hidalgo)  and  Taiwan.  An  increase   in  Institutional  of  $415  million   is
commensurate  with the growth in premiums  as discussed above, largely offset by
the establishment  of a  liability in  2001 related  to the  September 11,  2001
tragedies  and  the 2001  fourth  quarter business  realignment  initiatives. An
increase in  Reinsurance of  $70  million is  commensurate  with the  growth  in
premiums discussed above. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of
$102  million in the Auto & Home segment. The variance in Auto & Home is largely
due to  improved claim  frequency resulting  from milder  winter weather,  lower
catastrophe  levels and fewer  personal umbrella claims,  partially offset by an
increase in  current  year  bodily  injury and  no-fault  severities  and  costs
associated with the processing of the New York assigned risk business.

     Interest  credited  to  policyholder  account  balances  decreased  by $134
million, or 4%,  to $2,950 million  for the  year ended December  31, 2002  from
$3,084  million for the comparable 2001 period. This variance is attributable to
decreases in  the Individual  and Institutional  segments, partially  offset  by
increases in the International and Reinsurance segments. A $105 million decrease
in Individual is primarily due to the

                                        61
<PAGE>

establishment  in 2001 of a policyholder liability with respect to certain group
annuity  contracts  at  New  England  Financial.  Excluding  this   policyholder
liability,  interest  credited  expense  increased slightly  in  response  to an
increase in policyholder  account balances, which  is primarily attributable  to
sales  growth  despite  declines in  interest  crediting rates.  An  $81 million
decrease in Institutional  is primarily due  to a decline  in average  crediting
rates  resulting from the current interest rate environment. These variances are
partially offset  by  a net  increase  of  $28 million  in  International.  This
increase is principally due to the acquisition of Hidalgo, partially offset by a
reduction  in the number  of investment-type policies  in-force in Argentina. In
addition, a $24 million increase in Reinsurance is primarily due to several  new
annuity reinsurance agreements executed during 2002.

     Policyholder  dividends decreased by $144 million, or 7%, to $1,942 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2,086 million for the comparable 2001
period. This variance is attributable to a decrease in the Institutional segment
resulting from unfavorable mortality experience of several large group  clients.
Institutional  policyholder  dividends  vary  from  period  to  period  based on
participating contract experience,  which is recorded  in policyholder  benefits
and claims.

     Other  expenses decreased by $7 million, or less than 1%, to $7,015 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $7,022 million for the comparable 2001
period.  Excluding  the  capitalization  and  amortization  of  DAC,  which  are
discussed  below,  other expenses  increased by  $68 million,  or 1%,  to $7,716
million in 2002 from  $7,648 million in 2001.  Excluding the capitalization  and
amortization  of DAC and the change in  accounting as prescribed by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.  142, Goodwill and Other  Intangible
Assets,  ("SFAS 142"), which eliminates the amortization of goodwill and certain
other intangibles, other expenses  increased by $115  million. This variance  is
primarily  attributable  to  increases  in  the  Reinsurance  and  International
segments, as well as in Corporate & Other, partially offset by decreases in  the
Institutional, Individual and Asset Management segments. A $209 million increase
in  Reinsurance  is  primarily  attributable to  increases  in  allowances paid,
primarily driven by  high-allowance business  in the United  Kingdom along  with
strong  growth in the U.S. and Asia/Pacific regions. An increase of $166 million
in International expenses is  primarily due to the  acquisition of Hidalgo,  the
acquisitions  in Chile and  Brazil, as well  as business growth  in South Korea,
Mexico (excluding Hidalgo), and Hong Kong.  An increase in Corporate & Other  of
$65  million is primarily due  to increases in legal  and interest expenses. The
2002  period  includes  a  $266   million  charge  to  increase  the   Company's
asbestos-related   liability,  expenses  to  cover  costs  associated  with  the
resolution of  federal government  investigations of  General American's  former
Medicare  business and a reduction of a previously established liability related
to the  Company's  sales practices  class  action settlement.  The  2001  period
includes  a $250 million charge recorded in  the fourth quarter of 2001 to cover
costs associated with the resolution of  class action lawsuits and a  regulatory
inquiry  pending  against  Metropolitan  Life  involving  alleged race-conscious
insurance underwriting  practices  prior  to  1973.  The  increase  in  interest
expenses  is primarily  due to  increases in  long-term debt  resulting from the
issuance of $1.25 billion  and $1 billion  of senior debt  in November 2001  and
December  2002, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in commercial paper
in 2002. In  addition, a decrease  in the elimination  of intersegment  activity
contributed  to the variance. A decrease of $181 million in Institutional is due
to higher expenses resulting from  the business realignment initiatives  accrual
in  the fourth quarter 2001 (primarily the  Company's exit from the large market
401(k) business), $30 million  of which was released  into income in the  fourth
quarter  of  2002. This  decrease is  partially  offset by  an increase  in 2002
operational  expenses   for  dental   and  disability   and  group   insurance's
non-deferrable  expenses commensurate with the aforementioned premium growth, as
well as higher pension and postretirement  benefit expenses. A decrease of  $105
million  in  Individual  is  due to  continued  expense  management initiatives,
including  reduced  compensation-related   expenses,  a   decline  in   business
realignment expenses that were incurred in 2001 and reductions in volume-related
commission  expenses in the broker/dealer and other subsidiaries. These declines
are partially offset by higher  pension and postretirement benefit expenses  and
an  increase  in  expenses  stemming  from  sales  growth  in  new  annuity  and
investment-type products.  In  addition, a  decrease  of $39  million  in  Asset
Management is primarily due to the sale of Conning in July 2001.

     DAC  is principally amortized  in proportion to  gross margins and profits,
including  investment  gains  or  losses.  The  amortization  is  allocated   to
investment   gains   and   losses   to   provide   consolidated   statement   of

                                        62
<PAGE>

income information regarding the  impact of investment gains  and losses on  the
amount  of the  amortization, and other  expenses to provide  amounts related to
gross margins and  profits originating from  transactions other than  investment
gains and losses.

     Capitalization  of DAC increased by $301 million, or 15%, to $2,340 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2,039 million for the comparable 2001
period. This  variance  is  primarily  due  to  increases  in  the  Reinsurance,
Individual, International and Institutional segments. A $125 million increase in
Reinsurance is commensurate with the increase in allowances paid. A $111 million
increase  in Individual  is due to  higher sales of  annuity and investment-type
products, resulting in higher commissions  and other deferrable expenses. A  $51
million  increase in International  is primarily due to  the 2002 acquisition of
Hidalgo and  overall business  growth  in South  Korea,  partially offset  by  a
decrease  in Argentina due  to the reduction  in business caused  by the overall
economic environment. A $22 million  increase in Institutional is primarily  due
to  growth  in  sales  commissions  and fees  for  disability  products  sold by
Institutional. Total amortization of DAC increased  by $206 million, or 14%,  to
$1,644  million in  2002 from  $1,438 million  in 2001.  Amortization of  DAC of
$1,639 million and $1,413  million are allocated to  other expenses in 2002  and
2001,  respectively, while the  remainder of the amortization  in each period is
allocated to investment gains and losses. The increase in amortization allocated
to other expenses is attributable to increases in the Individual,  International
and  Reinsurance segments. An increase  of $111 million in  Individual is due to
the impact  of the  depressed equity  markets and  changes in  the estimates  of
future  gross  profits. In  2002, estimates  of  future dividend  scales, future
maintenance expenses, future  rider margins, and  future reinsurance  recoveries
were  revised.  In 2001,  estimates of  future  fixed account  interest spreads,
future gross  margins  and  profits  related to  separate  accounts  and  future
mortality  margins were revised. An increase  in International of $64 million is
primarily due  to loss  recognition in  Argentina as  a result  of the  economic
environment,  primarily the devaluation of  its currency. The remaining increase
was due to new business in South Korea, Taiwan, and the June 2002 acquisition of
Hidalgo. An increase  in Reinsurance  of $55  million is  due to  growth in  the
business, commensurate with the growth in premiums described above.

     Income  tax expense for the year ended  December 31, 2002 was $502 million,
or 31% of income from continuing  operations before provision for income  taxes,
compared  with $204 million,  or 36%, for  the comparable 2001  period. The 2002
effective tax rate differs from the federal corporate tax rate of 35%  primarily
due  to the impact of non-taxable investment income. The 2001 effective tax rate
differs from the federal corporate tax rate of 35%, due to an increase in  prior
year income taxes on capital gains.

     In  accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets ("SFAS 144"), income  related to the Company's real  estate
which  was identified as held-for-sale on or  after January 1, 2002 is presented
as discontinued operations for the years  ended December 31, 2002 and 2001.  The
income  from discontinued operations  is comprised of  net investment income and
net investment gains related to 47  properties that the Company began  marketing
for  sale on or after January 1, 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the
Company recognized  $582  million  of net  investment  gains  from  discontinued
operations due primarily to the sale of 36 properties.

                                        63
<PAGE>

INSTITUTIONAL

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
Institutional segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ----------------------------
                                                           2002      2001     % CHANGE
                                                          -------   -------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
Premiums................................................  $ 8,245   $ 7,288       13%
Universal life and investment-type product policy
  fees..................................................      624       592        5%
Net investment income...................................    3,918     3,967       (1)%
Other revenues..........................................      609       649       (6)%
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable
  from other accounts of $6 and ($105), respectively)...     (494)      (16)   2,988%
                                                          -------   -------
     Total revenues.....................................   12,902    12,480        3%
                                                          -------   -------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts
  directly related to net investment gains (losses) of
  $6 and ($105), respectively)..........................    9,339     8,924        5%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances......      932     1,013       (8)%
Policyholder dividends..................................      115       259      (56)%
Other expenses..........................................    1,531     1,746      (12)%
                                                          -------   -------
     Total expenses.....................................   11,917    11,942       (0)%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes..........................................      985       538       83%
Provision for income taxes..............................      347       177       96%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations.......................      638       361       77%
Income from discontinued operations, net of income
  taxes.................................................      121        21      476%
                                                          -------   -------
Net income..............................................  $   759   $   382       99%
                                                          =======   =======
</Table>

 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 2001 -- INSTITUTIONAL

     Premiums increased by $957 million, or 13%, to $8,245 million for the  year
ended  December 31,  2002 from  $7,288 million  for the  comparable 2001 period.
Group insurance premiums increased by $496 million as a result of growth in this
segment's  group  life,  dental,  disability  and  long-term  care   businesses.
Retirement  and savings premiums increased by  $461 million primarily due to the
sale of a significant  contract in the  second quarter of 2002,  as well as  new
sales  throughout  2002  from  structured  settlements  and  traditional annuity
products. Retirement and savings premium levels are significantly influenced  by
large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period.

     Universal  life and  investment-type product  policy fees  increased by $32
million, or 5%, to $624 million for  the year ended December 31, 2002 from  $592
million  for the comparable 2001 period. This increase is primarily attributable
to a fee  resulting from the  renegotiation of  a portion of  a bank-owned  life
insurance  contract,  as  well  as  growth in  existing  business  in  the group
universal life product line.

     Other revenues decreased  by $40 million,  or 6%, to  $609 million for  the
year  ended December 31, 2002 from $649  million for the comparable 2001 period.
Retirement and savings other revenues decreased  $73 million primarily due to  a
reduction  in administrative  fees as  a result of  the Company's  exit from the
large market 401(k) business in late 2001, and lower fees earned on  investments
in  separate accounts resulting  generally from poor  equity market performance.
This  decrease   is   partially   offset   by  a   $33   million   increase   in

                                        64
<PAGE>

group  insurance due  to growth in  the administrative service  businesses and a
settlement received in 2002 related to the Company's former medical business.

     Policyholder benefits  and claims  increased  by $415  million, or  5%,  to
$9,339  million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $8,924 million for the
comparable 2001  period. This  variance  is attributable  to increases  of  $238
million  and  $177  million  in  group  insurance  and  retirement  and savings,
respectively. Excluding $291 million of 2001 claims related to the September 11,
2001 tragedies, group  insurance policyholder benefits  and claims increased  by
$529  million  commensurate  with  the  aforementioned  premium  growth  in this
segment's  group  life,  dental,  disability,  and  long-term  care  businesses.
Excluding  $215  million of  2001 policyholder  benefits  related to  the fourth
quarter  2001   business  realignment   initiatives,  retirement   and   savings
policyholder   benefits   increased   $392   million,   commensurate   with  the
aforementioned premium growth.

     Interest credited to policyholders decreased by $81 million, or 8%, to $932
million for  the  year ended  December  31, 2002  from  $1,013 million  for  the
comparable  2001 period. Decreases of $42  million and $39 million in retirement
and savings and  group insurance,  respectively, are  primarily attributable  to
declines  in the average crediting rates in 2002  as a result of the current low
interest rate environment.

     Policyholder dividends decreased by $144  million, or 56%, to $115  million
for  the year ended December 31, 2002  from $259 million for the comparable 2001
period. This decline is largely attributable to unfavorable mortality experience
of several  large group  clients.  Policyholder dividends  vary from  period  to
period  based on participating contract experience, which are generally recorded
in policyholder benefits and claims.

     Other expenses decreased by $215 million, or 12%, to $1,531 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002 from $1,746 million in the comparable 2001  period.
Retirement and savings decreased by $293 million, primarily attributable to $184
million of accrued expenses related to business realignment initiatives recorded
in  the fourth quarter of 2001 (predominantly related to the Company's exit from
the large market 401(k) business), $30 million of which was released into income
in the fourth  quarter of 2002.  In addition, ongoing  expenses for the  defined
contribution  product have steadily decreased throughout 2002. The net reduction
in retirement and  savings is  partially offset by  an increase  in pension  and
postretirement  costs. Group insurance other  expenses increased by $78 million.
This increase is mainly attributable to  growth in operational expenses for  the
dental  and  disability products,  as well  as group  insurance's non-deferrable
expenses, including a certain  portion of premium  taxes and commissions.  These
variances  are commensurate with the aforementioned premium growth. In addition,
an increase in pension and postretirement costs contributed to the variance.

                                        65
<PAGE>

INDIVIDUAL

     The following  table presents  consolidated financial  information for  the
Individual segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ----------------------------
                                                           2002      2001     % CHANGE
                                                          -------   -------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
Premiums................................................  $ 4,507   $ 4,563       (1)%
Universal life and investment-type product policy
  fees..................................................    1,379     1,260        9%
Net investment income...................................    6,244     6,165        1%
Other revenues..........................................      418       495      (16)%
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable
  from other accounts of ($147) and ($134),
  respectively).........................................     (144)      853     (117)%
                                                          -------   -------
     Total revenues.....................................   12,404    13,336       (7)%
                                                          -------   -------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts
  directly related to net investment gains (losses) of
  ($157) and ($159), respectively)......................    5,220     5,233       (0)%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances......    1,793     1,898       (6)%
Policyholder dividends..................................    1,770     1,767        0%
Other expenses (excludes amounts directly related to net
  investment gains (losses) of $10 and $25,
  respectively).........................................    2,629     2,747       (4)%
                                                          -------   -------
     Total expenses.....................................   11,412    11,645       (2)%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes..........................................      992     1,691      (41)%
Provision for income taxes..............................      365       632      (42)%
                                                          -------   -------
Income from continuing operations.......................      627     1,059      (41)%
Income from discontinued operations, net of income
  taxes.................................................      199        36      453%
                                                          -------   -------
Net income..............................................  $   826   $ 1,095      (25)%
                                                          =======   =======
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2001 -- INDIVIDUAL

     Premiums  decreased by $56 million,  or 1%, to $4,507  million for the year
ended December 31,  2002 from  $4,563 million  for the  comparable 2001  period.
Premiums  from insurance products decreased  by $94 million, primarily resulting
from a third quarter 2002 amendment  of a reinsurance agreement to increase  the
amount of insurance ceded from 50% to 100%. This amendment was effective January
1,  2002. The  Company also believes  the decline  is the result  of a continued
shift in  policyholders' preference  from traditional  policies to  annuity  and
investment-type  products. These decreases are partially offset by policyholders
expanding their  traditional life  insurance coverage  through the  purchase  of
additional  insurance  with dividend  proceeds  in 2002.  Premiums  from annuity
products increased by $38 million as a result of higher sales of fixed annuities
and supplementary contracts with life contingencies.

     Universal life and  investment-type product policy  fees increased by  $119
million,  or 9%,  to $1,379 million  for the  year ended December  31, 2002 from
$1,260 million  for  the comparable  2001  period. Policy  fees  from  insurance
products  increased  by  $144  million  primarily  due  to  higher  revenue from
insurance fees,  which  increase as  the  average separate  account  asset  base
supporting  the underlying minimum death  benefit declines. The average separate
account asset base has declined in  response to poor equity market  performance.
Additionally,  this  variance reflects  the acceleration  of the  recognition of
unearned fees associated  with future reinsurance  recoveries. Policy fees  from
annuity    and    investment-type    products   decreased    by    $25   million
                                        66
<PAGE>

primarily due to declines in the  average separate account asset base  resulting
generally  from poor equity market performance,  partially offset by an increase
in fees resulting from growth in annuity deposits. Policy fees from annuity  and
investment-type  products are  typically calculated  as a  percentage of average
separate account assets. Such  assets can fluctuate  depending on equity  market
performance.

     Other  revenues decreased by $77  million, or 16%, to  $418 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002 from  $495 million for the comparable 2001  period,
largely  due to lower commission and fee income associated with a volume decline
in the broker/dealer  and other  subsidiaries which  is principally  due to  the
depressed equity markets.

     The  Company's investment gains and losses  are net of related policyholder
amounts. The  amounts  netted  against  investment  gains  and  losses  are  (i)
amortization  of  DAC,  to  the  extent  that  such  amortization  results  from
investment gains and  losses, (ii) adjustments  to participating  contractholder
accounts  when amounts equal to such investment  gains and losses are applied to
the  contractholder's  accounts,  and  (iii)  adjustments  to  the  policyholder
dividend obligation resulting from investment gains and losses.

     The  Company believes  its policy  of netting  related policyholder amounts
against investment gains and losses provides important information in evaluating
its performance. Investment  gains and  losses are often  excluded by  investors
when  evaluating  the overall  financial  performance of  insurers.  The Company
believes its presentation enables readers to easily exclude investment gains and
losses and the  related effects on  the consolidated statements  of income  when
evaluating  its performance. The Company's  presentation of investment gains and
losses, net of policyholder amounts, may be different from the presentation used
by other  insurance  companies  and,  therefore,  amounts  in  its  consolidated
statements  of  income  may  not  be comparable  to  amounts  reported  by other
insurers.

     Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $13 million, or less than 1%,
to $5,220 million for the year ended  December 31, 2002 from $5,233 million  for
the  comparable  2001 period.  Policyholder  benefits and  claims  for insurance
products decreased  by  $119  million,  primarily  due  to  the  impact  of  the
aforementioned  reinsurance transaction and the establishment of liabilities for
the September 11, 2001 tragedies in the previous year. Policyholder benefits and
claims for  annuity  and  investment-type products  increased  by  $106  million
primarily  due  to  an  increase in  fixed  and  immediate  annuity liabilities,
resulting from business growth and an increase in the liability associated  with
guaranteed minimum death benefits on variable annuities.

     Interest  credited  to  policyholder  account  balances  decreased  by $105
million, or 6%, to $1,793 million for the year ended December 31, 2002  compared
with  $1,898 for the comparable 2001 period.  This decrease was primarily due to
the establishment  of a  $118  million policyholder  liability with  respect  to
certain group annuity contracts at New England Financial in 2001. Excluding this
policyholder  liability, interest credited increased slightly due to an increase
in policyholder account balances which is primarily attributable to sales growth
partially offset by declines in interest crediting rates.

     Policyholder dividends increased by $3 million, or less than 1%, to  $1,770
million  for  the year  ended  December 31,  2002  from $1,767  million  for the
comparable 2001 period due to the increase in the invested assets supporting the
policies  associated  with  this  segment's  large  block  of  traditional  life
insurance  business. This  increase is partially  offset by the  approval by the
Company's Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of 2002 of a reduction in the
dividend  scale  to  reflect  the  impact  of  the  current  low  interest  rate
environment on the asset portfolios supporting these policies.

     Other  expenses decreased by $118 million, or 4%, to $2,629 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002 million from $2,747 for the comparable 2001 period.
Excluding the capitalization and amortization of DAC, which are discussed below,
other expenses decreased by $118 million, or 4%, to $2,922 million in 2002  from
$3,040  million in 2001. Other expenses  related to insurance products decreased
by  $129  million,  which  is  attributable  to  continued  expense  management,
reductions  in volume-related commission expenses in the broker/dealer and other
subsidiaries and  a reduction  of $62  million related  to business  realignment
expenses  incurred in  2001. These decreases  are partially  offset by increased
pension and postretirement  benefit expenses over  the comparable period.  Other
expenses   related  to   annuity  and  investment-type   products  increased  by

                                        67
<PAGE>

$11 million. This increase is commensurate with the rise in sales of new annuity
and investment-type products,  as well as  increased pension and  postretirement
benefit  expenses. This  increase is  partially offset  by the  reduction of $37
million of business realignment expenses incurred in 2001.

     DAC is  principally  amortized in  proportion  to gross  margins  or  gross
profits,  including investment gains or losses. The amortization is allocated to
investment  gains  and  losses  to  provide  consolidated  statement  of  income
information regarding the impact of investment gains and losses on the amount of
the amortization, and other expenses to provide amounts related to gross margins
or profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses.

     Capitalization  of DAC increased by $111 million, or 12%, to $1,037 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002  from $926 million for the comparable  2001
period due to higher sales of annuity and investment-type products, resulting in
higher  commissions  and other  deferrable expenses.  Total amortization  of DAC
increased by $100 million, or 15%, to $754 million in 2002 from $654 million  in
2001. Amortization of DAC of $744 million and $633 million is allocated to other
expenses in 2002 and 2001, respectively, while the remainder of the amortization
in  each  year  is  allocated  to  investment  gains  and  losses.  Increases in
amortization of DAC allocated to other  expenses of $84 million and $27  million
related   to  insurance  products  and  annuity  and  investment-type  products,
respectively, are due to the impact of the depressed equity markets and  changes
in  the estimates of future gross profits. In 2002, estimates of future dividend
scales,  future  maintenance   expenses,  future  rider   margins,  and   future
reinsurance  recoveries were revised. In 2001, estimates of future fixed account
interest spreads, future gross margins and profits related to separate  accounts
and future mortality margins were revised.

AUTO & HOME

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
Auto & Home segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            --------------------------
                                                             2002     2001    % CHANGE
                                                            ------   ------   --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>      <C>
REVENUES
Premiums..................................................  $2,828   $2,755        3%
Net investment income.....................................     177      200      (12)%
Other revenues............................................      26       22       18%
Net investment gains (losses).............................     (46)     (17)     171%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total revenues.......................................   2,985    2,960        1%
                                                            ------   ------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims..........................   2,019    2,121       (5)%
Other expenses............................................     793      800       (1)%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total expenses.......................................   2,812    2,921       (4)%
                                                            ------   ------
Income before provision (benefit) for income taxes........     173       39      344%
Provision (benefit) for income taxes......................      41       (2)   2,150%
                                                            ------   ------
Net income................................................  $  132   $   41      222%
                                                            ======   ======
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2001 -- AUTO & HOME

     Premiums increased by $73  million, or 3%, to  $2,828 million for the  year
ended December 31, 2002 from $2,755 million for the comparable 2001 period. Auto
and  property premiums  increased by $66  million and  $1 million, respectively,
primarily due to increases in average  premium earned per policy resulting  from
rate  increases. The impact on premiums from rate increases was partially offset
by an expected  reduction in retention  and a reduction  in new business  sales.
Premiums from other personal lines increased by $6 million.

                                        68
<PAGE>

     Other revenues increased by $4 million, or 18%, to $26 million for the year
ended  December 31, 2002 from  $22 million for the  comparable 2001 period. This
increase was primarily due to  income earned on a  COLI policy purchased in  the
second  quarter of 2002, as  well as higher fees  on installment payments. These
increases were partially offset by an  adjustment to a deferred gain related  to
the disposition of this segment's reinsurance business in 1990.

     Policyholder  benefits  and claims  decreased by  $102  million, or  5%, to
$2,019 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2,121 million for  the
comparable  2001 period. Property policyholder  benefits and claims decreased by
$120 million due to improved claim frequency, underwriting and agency management
actions,  and  a   $41  million  reduction   in  catastrophe  losses.   Property
catastrophes  represented 7.4%  of the property  loss ratio in  2002 compared to
13.5% in 2001. Other policyholder benefits  and claims decreased by $10  million
due  to  fewer  personal  umbrella claims.  Fluctuations  in  these policyholder
benefits and claims may not  be commensurate with the  change in premiums for  a
given  period  due  to  low  premium  volume  and  high  liability  limits. Auto
policyholder benefits and  claims increased  by $28  million largely  due to  an
increase in current year bodily injury and no-fault severities. Costs associated
with  the processing of the New York  assigned risk business also contributed to
this increase. These increases were partially offset by improved claim frequency
resulting  from  milder  winter  weather,  underwriting  and  agency  management
actions, as well as lower catastrophe losses.

     Other expenses decreased by $7 million, or 1%, to $793 million for the year
ended  December 31, 2002 from $800 million  for the comparable 2001 period. This
decrease is primarily due  to reduced employee  head-count and reduced  expenses
associated  with the  consolidation of The  St. Paul business  acquired in 1999.
These declines are partially  offset by an increase  in expenses related to  the
outsourced New York assigned risk business.

     The  effective income tax  rates for the  year ended December  31, 2002 and
2001 differ from  the federal corporate  tax rate of  35% due to  the impact  of
non-taxable investment income.

                                        69
<PAGE>

INTERNATIONAL

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
International segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            --------------------------
                                                             2002     2001    % CHANGE
                                                            ------   ------   --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>      <C>
REVENUES
Premiums..................................................  $1,511   $  846      79%
Universal life and investment-type product policy fees....     144       38     279%
Net investment income.....................................     461      267      73%
Other revenues............................................      14       16     (13)%
Net investment gains (losses).............................      (9)     (16)    (44)%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total revenues.......................................   2,121    1,151      84%
                                                            ------   ------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims..........................   1,388      689     101%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances........      79       51      55%
Policyholder dividends....................................      35       36      (3)%
Other expenses............................................     507      329      54%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total expenses.......................................   2,009    1,105      82%
                                                            ------   ------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes............................................     112       46     143%
Provision for income taxes................................      28       32     (13)%
                                                            ------   ------
Net income................................................  $   84   $   14     500%
                                                            ======   ======
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2001 -- INTERNATIONAL

     Premiums increased by $665 million, or 79%, to $1,511 million for the  year
ended  December 31, 2002 from  $846 million for the  comparable 2001 period. The
June 2002 acquisition of Hidalgo and  the 2001 acquisitions in Chile and  Brazil
increased  premiums by $228 million, $102  million and $8 million, respectively.
In addition, a portion  of the increase  in premiums is  attributable to a  $108
million  increase due to the sale of an annuity contract in the first quarter of
2002 to  a Canadian  trust  company. South  Korea's  premiums increased  by  $91
million  primarily due to  a larger professional sales  force and improved agent
productivity. Mexico's premiums (excluding  Hidalgo), increased by $66  million,
primarily  due to increases in its group life, major medical and individual life
businesses. Excluding the aforementioned sale  of an annuity contract,  Canada's
premiums increased by $26 million due to the restructuring of a pension contract
from  an  investment-type  product  to a  long-term  annuity.  Taiwan's premiums
increased by $13  million due primarily  to continued growth  in the  individual
life insurance business. Hong Kong's premiums increased $5 million primarily due
to  continued growth  in the group  life and traditional  life businesses. These
increases are  partially offset  by a  decrease in  Argentina's premiums  of  $9
million  due  to the  reduction  in business  caused  by the  Argentine economic
environment. The remainder of the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations
in other countries.

     Universal life and  investment type-product policy  fees increased by  $106
million,  or 279%, to $144 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $38
million for  the comparable  2001 period.  The acquisition  of Hidalgo  and  the
acquisitions  in Chile  resulted in  increases of  $102 million  and $5 million,
respectively. These increases were partially offset by a $9 million decrease  in
Spain due to a reduction in fees caused by a decline in assets under management,
as  a result of the  cessation of product lines  offered through a joint venture
with Banco Santander in 2001. The  remainder of the variance is attributable  to
minor fluctuations in several countries.

                                        70
<PAGE>

     Other revenues decreased by $2 million, or 13%, to $14 million for the year
ended  December  31,  2002 from  $16  million  for the  comparable  2001 period.
Canada's other  revenues  in 2001  included  $1  million due  primarily  to  the
settlement  of  two  legal cases  in  2001.  The remainder  of  the  variance is
attributable to  minor fluctuations  in several  countries. The  acquisition  of
Hidalgo  and the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil had no material impact on this
variance.

     Policyholder benefits and  claims increased  by $699 million,  or 101%,  to
$1,388  million for the year  ended December 31, 2002  from $689 million for the
comparable 2001 period. The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile
increased policyholder benefits  and claims  by $224 million  and $169  million,
respectively.  In  addition,  $108  million  of  this  increase  in policyholder
benefits and claims  is attributable to  the aforementioned sale  of an  annuity
contract  in Canada. South  Korea's, Mexico's (excluding  Hidalgo), Taiwan's and
Spain's policyholder benefits and claims increased by $69 million, $67  million,
$18 million and $15 million, respectively, commensurate with the overall premium
increases  discussed  above. Excluding  the  aforementioned sale  of  an annuity
contract, Canada's policyholder  benefits and  claims increased  by $32  million
primarily due to the restructuring of a pension contract from an investment-type
product to a long-term annuity. The remainder of the variance is attributable to
minor fluctuations in several countries.

     Interest  credited  to  policyholder  account  balances  increased  by  $28
million, or 55%, to $79  million for the year ended  December 31, 2002 from  $51
million  for the comparable 2001 period.  The acquisition of Hidalgo contributed
$51 million. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $17 million  in
Argentina.  This decrease is primarily due  to modifications to policy contracts
as authorized by the Argentinean  government and a reduction of  investment-type
policies  in-force.  In  addition,  Spain's interest  credited  decreased  by $7
million primarily due  to a  decrease in the  assets under  management for  life
products  with guarantees  associated with  the sale of  a block  of policies to
Banco Santander in May  2001. The remainder of  the variance is attributable  to
minor fluctuations in several countries.

     Policyholder  dividends remained  essentially unchanged at  $35 million for
the year ended  December 31,  2002 versus $36  million for  the comparable  2001
period.  The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil had
no material impact on this variance.

     Other expenses increased by $178 million,  or 54%, to $507 million for  the
year  ended December 31, 2002 from $329  million for the comparable 2001 period.
The acquisition of Hidalgo and the acquisitions in Chile and Brazil  contributed
$82  million, $21 million and $5  million, respectively. South Korea's, Mexico's
(excluding Hidalgo), and Hong  Kong's other expenses  increased by $29  million,
$19  million and $7 million, respectively.  These increases are primarily due to
increased non-deferrable  commissions  from  higher sales  as  discussed  above,
particularly  in South Korea where fixed sales compensation is paid to new sales
management as  part  of the  professional  agency expansion.  Argentina's  other
expenses  increased  by  $9  million  due  to  additional  loss  recognition  in
connection with ongoing  economic circumstances in  the country. Poland's  other
expenses  increased by $5 million primarily due  to costs incurred in the fourth
quarter of 2002 associated with the closing of this operation. The remainder  of
the variance is attributable to minor fluctuations in several countries.

                                        71
<PAGE>

REINSURANCE

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
Reinsurance segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            --------------------------
                                                             2002     2001    % CHANGE
                                                            ------   ------   --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>      <C>
REVENUES
Premiums..................................................  $2,005   $1,762       14%
Net investment income.....................................     421      390        8%
Other revenues............................................      43       42        2%
Net investment gains (losses).............................       2       (6)     133%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total revenues.......................................   2,471    2,188       13%
                                                            ------   ------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims..........................   1,554    1,484        5%
Interest credited to policyholder account balances........     146      122       20%
Policyholder dividends....................................      22       24       (8)%
Other expenses............................................     622      491       27%
                                                            ------   ------
     Total expenses.......................................   2,344    2,121       11%
                                                            ------   ------
Income before provision for income taxes..................     127       67       90%
Provision for income taxes................................      43       27       59%
                                                            ------   ------
Net income................................................  $   84   $   40      110%
                                                            ======   ======
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2001 -- REINSURANCE

     Premiums increased by $243 million, or 14%, to $2,005 million for the  year
ended  December 31, 2002 from $1,762 million for the comparable 2001 period. New
premiums from  facultative  and  automatic  treaties  and  renewal  premiums  on
existing  blocks  of  business,  particularly in  the  U.S.  and  United Kingdom
reinsurance operations, all  contributed to the  premium growth. Premium  levels
are  significantly influenced by  large transactions and  reporting practices of
ceding companies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period.

     Other revenues remained essentially unchanged  at $43 million for the  year
ended December 31, 2002 versus $42 million for the comparable 2001 period.

     Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $70 million, or 5%, to $1,554
million  for  the year  ended  December 31,  2002  from $1,484  million  for the
comparable 2001 period. Policyholder  benefits and claims  were 78% of  premiums
for  the year  ended December 31,  2002 compared  to 84% in  the comparable 2001
period. The decrease  in policyholder  benefits and  claims as  a percentage  of
premiums is primarily attributable to higher than expected mortality in the U.S.
reinsurance  operations during the first and  fourth quarters of 2001, favorable
claims experience in  2002 and  the 2001 impact  of claims  associated with  the
September  11, 2001  tragedies. In  addition, increases  in the  liabilities for
future policyholder benefits and adverse results on the reinsurance of Argentine
pension business during 2001  contributed to the decrease.  The level of  claims
may  fluctuate from period to period, but exhibits less volatility over the long
term.

     Interest  credited  to  policyholder  account  balances  increased  by  $24
million,  or 20%, to $146 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $122
million for the comparable 2001 period. Contributing to this growth were several
new annuity reinsurance agreements executed  during 2002. The crediting rate  on
certain  blocks  of annuities  is  based on  the  performance of  the underlying
assets.

     Policyholder dividends were  essentially unchanged at  $22 million for  the
year ended December 31, 2002, versus $24 million for the 2001 comparable period.

                                        72
<PAGE>

     Other  expenses increased by $131 million, or  27%, to $622 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002 from  $491 million for the comparable 2001  period.
The  increase  in other  expenses is  primarily attributable  to an  increase in
reinsurance business in  the United  Kingdom, which is  characterized by  higher
initial  reinsurance  allowances  than  those  historically  experienced  in the
segment. These  expenses  fluctuate  depending  on the  mix  of  the  underlying
insurance   products  being  reinsured  as   allowances  paid  and  the  related
capitalization and  amortization can  vary significantly  based on  the type  of
business and the reinsurance treaty.

ASSET MANAGEMENT

     The  following table  presents consolidated  financial information  for the
Asset Management segment for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------
                                                              2002    2001    % CHANGE
                                                              -----   -----   ---------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
REVENUES
Net investment income.......................................  $ 59    $ 71       (17)%
Other revenues..............................................   166     198       (16)%
Net investment gains (losses)...............................    (4)     25      (116)%
                                                              ----    ----
     Total revenues.........................................   221     294       (25)%
                                                              ----    ----
OTHER EXPENSES..............................................   211     252       (16)%
                                                              ----    ----
Income before provision for income taxes....................    10      42       (76)%
Provision for income taxes..................................     4      15       (73)%
                                                              ----    ----
Net income..................................................  $  6    $ 27       (78)%
                                                              ====    ====
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2001 -- ASSET MANAGEMENT

     Other revenues, which  primarily consist  of management  and advisory  fees
from  third parties, decreased by  $32 million, or 16%,  to $166 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002 from  $198 million for the comparable 2001  period.
The  most  significant factor  contributing  to this  decline  is a  $31 million
decrease resulting  from the  sale  of Conning,  which  occurred in  July  2001.
Excluding  the impact of  this transaction, other  revenues remained essentially
unchanged at $166 million for  the year ended December  31, 2002 as compared  to
$167  million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Despite lower average assets
under management, revenues  remained constant due  to performance and  incentive
fees  earned on certain  real estate and  hedge fund products.  The lower assets
under management are primarily due to institutional client withdrawals, and  the
downturn in the equity market. In addition, fourth quarter 2002 product closings
and business exits also contributed to this decline.

     Other  expenses decreased by $41  million, or 16%, to  $211 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002 from  $252 million for the comparable 2001  period.
Excluding  the impact  of the  sale of Conning,  other expenses  decreased by $6
million, or 3%, to $211 million in 2002 from $217 million in 2001. This decrease
is due to reductions in marketing-related expenses and expenses related to  fund
reimbursements.  In  addition,  a  decrease in  amortization  of  deferred sales
commissions resulted from a reduction  in sales. These decreases were  partially
offset  by  a  $5  million increase  in  employee  compensation  attributable to
severance-related expenses resulting  from third and  fourth quarter 2002  staff
reductions.

CORPORATE & OTHER

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
  2001 -- CORPORATE & OTHER

     Other  revenues decreased by  $29 million, or  34%, to $56  million for the
year ended December 31,  2002 from $85 million  for the comparable 2001  period.
This is primarily attributable to the remeasurement of the Company's reinsurance
recoverable  associated with the sales practices  reinsurance treaty in 2001, as
well as

                                        73
<PAGE>

an  increase  in the  elimination of  intersegment  activity. This  is partially
offset from a gain on the sale of a company-occupied building, and income earned
on COLI purchased during 2002.

     Other expenses increased by  $65 million, or 10%,  to $722 million for  the
year  ended December 31, 2002 from $657  million for the comparable 2001 period,
primarily due  to increases  in legal  and interest  expenses. The  2002  period
includes  a  $266  million  charge to  increase  the  Company's asbestos-related
liability, expenses to  cover costs  associated with the  resolution of  federal
government  investigations of General American's  former Medicare business and a
reduction of a previously established  liability related to the Company's  sales
practices  class  action settlement.  The 2001  period  includes a  $250 million
charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 to cover costs associated with the
resolution of class  action lawsuits  and a regulatory  inquiry pending  against
Metropolitan  Life,  involving  alleged  race-conscious  insurance  underwriting
practices prior to 1973. The increase  in interest expenses is primarily due  to
increases  in long-term debt resulting from the issuance of $1.25 billion and $1
billion of  senior  debt  in  November 2001  and  December  2002,  respectively,
partially  offset by  a decrease  in commercial  paper in  2002. In  addition, a
decrease  in  the  elimination  of  intersegment  activity  contributed  to  the
variance.

BUSINESS REALIGNMENT INITIATIVES

     During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company implemented several business
realignment  initiatives, which resulted  from a strategic  review of operations
and an ongoing commitment to reduce expenses.  The impact of these actions on  a
segment  basis were  charges of  $399 million  in Institutional,  $97 million in
Individual and $3 million in Auto & Home. The liability at December 31, 2003 and
2002 was  $27 million  and $40  million,  in the  Institutional segment  and  $9
million  and $18 million, in the Individual segment, respectively. The remaining
liability is due to certain contractual obligations.

SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 TRAGEDIES

     On September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks occurred in New York,  Washington,
D.C.  and Pennsylvania (the  "tragedies") triggering a  significant loss of life
and  property,  which  had  an  adverse  impact  on  certain  of  the  Company's
businesses.  The  Company's  original  estimate of  the  total  insurance losses
related to the tragedies, which was recorded  in the third quarter of 2001,  was
$208  million, net of income taxes of $117  million. As of December 31, 2003 and
2002, the Company's remaining liability for unpaid and future claims  associated
with  the tragedies  was $9 million  and $47  million, respectively, principally
related to disability coverages. This estimate has been and will continue to  be
subject  to revision in subsequent periods, as claims are received from insureds
and processed. Any revision to the estimate of losses in subsequent periods will
affect net income in such periods.

METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST I

     In connection with MetLife, Inc.'s, initial public offering in April  2000,
the  Holding Company  and MetLife  Capital Trust  I (the  "Trust") issued equity
security units (the "units"). Each unit  originally consisted of (i) a  contract
to  purchase,  for  $50,  shares  of the  Holding  Company's  common  stock (the
"purchase contracts") on May 15, 2003; and (ii) a capital security of the Trust,
with a stated liquidation amount of $50.

     In accordance  with the  terms of  the units,  the Trust  was dissolved  on
February  5,  2003,  and  $1,006 million  aggregate  principal  amount  of 8.00%
debentures of the Holding Company (the "MetLife debentures"), the sole assets of
the Trust, were distributed to the  owners of the Trust's capital securities  in
exchange for their capital securities. The MetLife debentures were remarketed on
behalf of the debenture owners on February 12, 2003 and the interest rate on the
MetLife  debentures was reset as of February 15,  2003 to 3.911% per annum for a
yield to  maturity of  2.876%. As  a result  of the  remarketing, the  debenture
owners  received $21 million ($0.03  per diluted common share)  in excess of the
carrying value  of the  capital  securities. This  excess  was recorded  by  the
Company  as  a charge  to additional  paid-in  capital and,  for the  purpose of
calculating earnings per share, is subtracted  from net income to arrive at  net
income available to common shareholders.

                                        74
<PAGE>

     On  May 15,  2003, the  purchase contracts  associated with  the units were
settled. In  exchange for  $1,006 million,  the Company  issued 2.97  shares  of
MetLife,  Inc. common stock per purchase contract, or approximately 59.8 million
shares of treasury stock. The excess of the Company's cost of the treasury stock
($1,662 million) over  the contract price  of the stock  issued to the  purchase
contract  holders ($1,006  million) was  $656 million,  which was  recorded as a
direct reduction to retained earnings.

     Interest expense on the  capital securities is  included in other  expenses
and  was $10 million, $81  million and $81 million  for the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

  THE HOLDING COMPANY

     Capital

     Restrictions and  Limitations  on  Bank  Holding  Companies  and  Financial
Holding   Companies  --  Capital.  MetLife,  Inc.  and  its  insured  depository
institution subsidiary, MetLife  Bank, N.A. ("MetLife  Bank"), a national  bank,
are  subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal
banking regulatory  agencies  for banks  and  financial holding  companies.  The
federal  banking regulatory agencies are required by law to take specific prompt
corrective actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital
standards. At  December  31,  2003,  MetLife, Inc.  and  MetLife  Bank  were  in
compliance with the aforementioned guidelines.

     The  following table contains  the RBC ratios  as of December  31, 2003 and
2002 and  the  regulatory requirements  for  MetLife  Inc., as  a  bank  holding
company, and MetLife Bank:

                                 METLIFE, INC.
                       RBC RATIOS -- BANK HOLDING COMPANY

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                         ----------------------------------------------------
                                                           REGULATORY         REGULATORY
                                                          REQUIREMENTS       REQUIREMENTS
                                          2003    2002      MINIMUM       "WELL CAPITALIZED"
                                         ------   -----   ------------   --------------------
<S>                                      <C>      <C>     <C>            <C>
Total RBC Ratio........................  11.19%   9.75%      8.00%              10.00%
Tier 1 RBC Ratio.......................   9.19%   7.93%      4.00%               6.00%
Tier 1 Leverage Ratio..................   6.12%   5.59%      4.00%               5.00%
</Table>

                                  METLIFE BANK
                               RBC RATIOS -- BANK

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                        -----------------------------------------------------
                                                           REGULATORY         REGULATORY
                                                          REQUIREMENTS       REQUIREMENTS
                                         2003     2002      MINIMUM       "WELL CAPITALIZED"
                                        ------   ------   ------------   --------------------
<S>                                     <C>      <C>      <C>            <C>
Total RBC Ratio.......................  13.12%   25.75%      8.00%              10.00%
Tier 1 RBC Ratio......................  12.50%   25.39%      4.00%               6.00%
Tier 1 Leverage Ratio.................   8.81%   18.33%      4.00%               5.00%
</Table>

     Liquidity

     Liquidity  refers to  a company's ability  to generate  adequate amounts of
cash to  meet  its  needs.  It  is managed  to  preserve  stable,  reliable  and
cost-effective  sources  of  cash  to  meet  all  current  and  future financial
obligations and is provided  by a variety of  sources, including a portfolio  of
liquid assets, a diversified mix of short and long-term funding sources from the
wholesale  financial markets and the ability  to borrow through committed credit
facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant in the global financial
markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets,
which serve as cost-effective sources of  funds, are critical components of  the
Holding    Company's   liquidity   management.   Decisions   to   access   these

                                        75
<PAGE>

markets  are  based  upon relative  costs,  prospective views  of  balance sheet
growth, and a targeted liquidity profile. A disruption in the financial  markets
could limit the Holding Company's access to liquidity.

     The  Holding Company's ability to  maintain regular access to competitively
priced wholesale funds is  fostered by its current  debt ratings from the  major
credit  rating agencies.  Management views  its capital  ratios, credit quality,
stable and  diverse earnings  streams, diversity  of liquidity  sources and  its
liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high credit ratings.

     Liquidity  is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics,
including the  composition  and level  of  the liquid  asset  portfolio,  timing
differences in short-term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets
for  capital and term-debt transactions, and exposure to contingent draws on the
Holding Company's liquidity.

     Liquidity Sources

     Dividends.   The  primary source  of  the Holding  Company's  liquidity  is
dividends  it receives from Metropolitan Life. Under the New York Insurance Law,
Metropolitan Life is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to
pay a cash dividend to  the Holding Company as long  as the aggregate amount  of
all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser of (i) 10% of
its  statutory surplus as  of the immediately preceding  calendar year; and (ii)
its statutory net gain  from operations for  the immediately preceding  calendar
year  (excluding realized capital gains). Metropolitan Life will be permitted to
pay a cash dividend to the Holding Company  in excess of the lesser of such  two
amounts  only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and
the  amount  thereof  with  the  New  York  Superintendent  of  Insurance   (the
"Superintendent")  and the Superintendent does  not disapprove the distribution.
Under the New  York Insurance Law,  the Superintendent has  broad discretion  in
determining  whether the financial  condition of a  stock life insurance company
would support the payment  of such dividends to  its stockholders. The New  York
Insurance  Department (the "Department") has established informal guidelines for
such determinations. The guidelines, among other things, focus on the  insurer's
overall   financial  condition  and  profitability  under  statutory  accounting
practices. Management  of  the Holding  Company  cannot provide  assurance  that
Metropolitan  Life will have statutory earnings  to support payment of dividends
to the Holding Company in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and
pay cash dividends or that the Superintendent will not disapprove any  dividends
that  Metropolitan Life must  submit for the  Superintendent's consideration. In
addition, the Holding  Company receives dividends  from its other  subsidiaries.
The  Holding Company's other insurance subsidiaries  are also subject to similar
restrictions on the payment of dividends to their respective parent companies.

     The dividend limitation is based on statutory financial results.  Statutory
accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in
which  the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting
principles used in financial  statements prepared in  conformity with GAAP.  The
significant  differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income
taxes, required investment reserves,  reserve calculation assumptions,  goodwill
and surplus notes.

     As  of December 31, 2003,  the maximum amount of  the dividend which may be
paid to  the Holding  Company by  Metropolitan Life,  Metropolitan Property  and
Casualty  Insurance Company  and Metropolitan  Insurance and  Annuity Company in
2004, without prior regulatory approval, is $798 million, $200 million and  $185
million, respectively.

     Liquid  Assets.    An  integral part  of  the  Holding  Company's liquidity
management is the amount of liquid  assets that it holds. Liquid assets  include
cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable fixed maturity and
equity  securities. Liquid assets exclude  assets relating to securities lending
and dollar roll activities. At December  31, 2003 and 2002, the Holding  Company
had $1,320 million and $846 million in liquid assets, respectively.

     Global  Funding Sources.  Liquidity  is also provided by  a variety of both
short and  long-term instruments,  including repurchase  agreements,  commercial
paper, medium and long-term debt, capital securities

                                        76
<PAGE>

and  stockholders' equity. The diversification  of the Holding Company's funding
sources enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one source  of
funds, and generally lowers the cost of funds.

     At  December 31, 2003  and 2002, the  Holding Company had  $106 million and
$249 million of short-term debt outstanding, and $3.96 billion and $3.27 billion
in long-term debt outstanding, respectively.

     The Holding Company filed a $5.0 billion shelf registration statement  with
the  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  ("SEC"), which became effective on
March 4, 2004. The shelf registration will permit the registration and  issuance
of a wide range of debt and equity securities, including preferred securities of
a  subsidiary trust guaranteed by MetLife Inc., as described more fully therein.
Approximately $44 million of registered  but unissued securities remaining  from
the  Company's 2001 $4.0  billion shelf registration  statement has been carried
over to this shelf registration.

     The Holding Company issued and remarketed senior debt and debentures in the
amount  of  $3.96  billion  under  the  2001  $4.0  billion  shelf  registration
statement.  The  following table  summarizes the  Holding Company's  senior debt
issuances:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                            INTEREST
ISSUE DATE                                                PRINCIPAL           RATE     MATURITY
----------                                          ---------------------   --------   --------
                                                    (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                 <C>                     <C>        <C>
November 2003.....................................          $500              5.00%      2013
November 2003.....................................          $200              5.88%      2033
December 2002.....................................          $400              5.38%      2012
December 2002.....................................          $600              6.50%      2032
November 2001.....................................          $500              5.25%      2006
November 2001.....................................          $750              6.13%      2011
</Table>

     In addition,  in  February  2003, the  Holding  Company  remarketed  $1,006
million aggregate principal amount of debentures previously issued in connection
with the issuance of equity security units. See "-- MetLife Capital Trust I --."

     Other sources of the Holding Company's liquidity include programs for short
and long-term borrowing, as needed, arranged through Metropolitan Life.

     Credit Facilities.  The Holding Company maintains a committed and unsecured
credit facility, which expires in 2005, for approximately $1.25 billion which it
shares  with Metropolitan Life and MetLife Funding, Inc. ("MetLife Funding"). In
April 2003,  Metropolitan  Life and  MetLife  Funding replaced  an  expiring  $1
billion  five-year credit facility with a $1 billion 364-day credit facility and
the Holding Company was  added as a borrower.  Drawdowns under these  facilities
bear  interest at varying  rates stated in the  agreements. These facilities are
primarily used for general corporate purposes and as back-up lines of credit for
the borrowers'  commercial paper  programs. At  December 31,  2003, neither  the
Holding  Company, Metropolitan Life nor MetLife  Funding had drawn against these
credit facilities.

     Liquidity Uses

     The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include cash dividends
on common stock, service on debt, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment
of general operating expenses and the repurchase of the Holding Company's common
stock.

     Dividends.  On October 21, 2003,  the Holding Company's Board of  Directors
approved  an annual dividend for 2003 of  $0.23 per share. The dividend was paid
on December 15, 2003  to shareholders of  record on November  7, 2003. The  2003
dividend represents an increase of $0.02 per share from the 2002 annual dividend
of  $0.21 per share. Future dividend decisions will be determined by the Holding
Company's Board of Directors after taking into consideration factors such as the
Holding Company's  current earnings,  expected  medium and  long-term  earnings,
financial  condition, regulatory  capital position,  and applicable governmental
regulations and policies.

                                        77
<PAGE>

     Capital Contributions to Subsidiaries.  During the years ended December 31,
2003  and 2002, the Holding Company contributed an aggregate of $239 million and
$500 million to various subsidiaries, respectively.

     Share Repurchase.   On February 19,  2002, the Holding  Company's Board  of
Directors  authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program. This program
began after the completion of  the March 28, 2001  and June 27, 2000  repurchase
programs, each of which authorized the repurchase of $1 billion of common stock.
Under  these authorizations, the  Holding Company may  purchase its common stock
from the  MetLife  Policyholder Trust,  in  the  open market  and  in  privately
negotiated  transactions. The following table summarizes the 2003, 2002 and 2001
repurchase activity:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              DECEMBER 31,
                                                 --------------------------------------
                                                    2003         2002          2001
                                                 ----------   -----------   -----------
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                              <C>          <C>           <C>
Shares Repurchased.............................   2,997,200    15,244,492    45,242,966
Cost...........................................  $       97   $       471   $     1,321
</Table>

     At December 31, 2003,  the Holding Company  had approximately $709  million
remaining on its existing share repurchase program.

     In  the fourth quarter of 2003, RGA offered to the public 12,075,000 shares
of its common stock  at $36.65 per share.  MetLife and its affiliates  purchased
3,000,000  shares of the common stock being offered  by RGA. As a result of this
offering, MetLife's ownership  percentage of  outstanding shares  of RGA  common
stock  was reduced from approximately 59%  at December 31, 2002 to approximately
52% at December 31, 2003.

     Support Agreements.  In 2002, the Holding Company entered into a net  worth
maintenance   agreement  with  three  of  its  insurance  subsidiaries,  MetLife
Investors Insurance  Company,  First  MetLife Investors  Insurance  Company  and
MetLife  Investors Insurance  Company of  California. Under  the agreements, the
Holding Company agreed, without  limitation as to the  amount, to cause each  of
these  subsidiaries to have  a minimum capital  and surplus of  $10 million (or,
with respect to MetLife Investors Insurance Company of California, $5  million),
total adjusted capital at a level not less than 150% of the company action level
RBC,  as defined by state insurance  statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable
it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. At December 31, 2003,  the
capital  and surplus of each of these  subsidiaries was in excess of the minimum
capital and surplus amounts referenced  above, and their total adjusted  capital
was  in  excess of  the most  recent referenced  RBC-based amount  calculated at
December 31, 2003.

     Based on management's  analysis and  comparison of its  current and  future
cash  inflows  from  the  dividends  it  receives  from  subsidiaries, including
Metropolitan Life,  that  are  permitted  to be  paid  without  prior  insurance
regulatory  approval and  its portfolio of  liquid assets  and other anticipated
cash flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to enable the
Holding Company to  make payments on  debt, make cash  dividend payments on  its
common stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating expenses
and meet its other obligations.

THE COMPANY

     Capital

     RBC.   Section 1322  of the New  York Insurance Law  requires that New York
domestic life  insurers  report their  RBC  based  on a  formula  calculated  by
applying  factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items; similar
rules apply  to  each of  the  Company's domestic  insurance  subsidiaries.  The
formula  takes into account  the risk characteristics  of the insurer, including
asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate  risk and business risk. Section  1322
gives  the  Superintendent  explicit  regulatory  authority  to  require various
actions by, or to  take various actions against,  insurers whose total  adjusted
capital  does not exceed certain RBC  levels. At December 31, 2003, Metropolitan
Life's and each of the Holding Company's domestic insurance subsidiaries'  total
adjusted  capital was in excess of each of the RBC levels required by each state
of domicile.

                                        78
<PAGE>

     The  National  Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC")  adopted
Codification  of  Statutory  Accounting  Principles  ("Codification"),  which is
intended to standardize regulatory accounting  and reporting to state  insurance
departments  and became effective January 1, 2001. However, statutory accounting
principles continue to  be established  by individual state  laws and  permitted
practices.  The  Department  required  adoption  of  Codification  with  certain
modifications for the preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance
companies domiciled in New  York effective January  1, 2001. Effective  December
31,  2002,  the  Department adopted  a  modification  to its  regulations  to be
consistent with  Codification  with respect  to  the admissibility  of  deferred
income  taxes by New York insurers, subject to certain limitations. The adoption
of Codification,  as  modified  by  the Department,  did  not  adversely  affect
Metropolitan  Life's  statutory capital  and  surplus. Further  modifications by
state insurance  departments  may  impact  the effect  of  Codification  on  the
statutory  capital and  surplus of Metropolitan  Life and  the Holding Company's
other insurance subsidiaries.

     Liquidity Sources

     Cash Flow from Operations.  The  Company's principal cash inflows from  its
insurance  activities come  from insurance premiums,  annuity considerations and
deposit funds. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is
the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The Company  seeks
to  include  provisions  limiting withdrawal  rights  on many  of  its products,
including  general  account  institutional  pension  products  (generally  group
annuities,  including  guaranteed interest  contracts  and certain  deposit fund
liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors.

     The Company's principal  cash inflows from  its investment activities  come
from  repayments of  principal, proceeds from  maturities and  sales of invested
assets and investment  income. The  primary liquidity concerns  with respect  to
these  cash inflows are the risk of  default by debtors and market volatilities.
The Company closely  monitors and manages  these risks through  its credit  risk
management process.

     Liquid  Assets.  An integral part  of the Company's liquidity management is
the amount  of  liquid  assets  it  holds.  Liquid  assets  include  cash,  cash
equivalents,  short-term investments  and marketable  fixed maturity  and equity
securities. Liquid  assets exclude  assets relating  to securities  lending  and
dollar  roll activities.  At December  31, 2003 and  2002, the  Company had $125
billion and $108 billion in liquid assets, respectively.

     Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also provided  by a variety of  both
short  and  long-term instruments,  including repurchase  agreements, commercial
paper, medium and long-term debt,  capital securities and stockholders'  equity.
The   diversification  of   the  Company's  funding   sources  enhances  funding
flexibility, limits dependence on any one  source of funds and generally  lowers
the cost of funds.

     At  December 31, 2003 and  2002, the Company had  $3,642 million and $1,161
million in short-term debt outstanding, and $5,703 million and $4,425 million in
long-term debt  outstanding,  respectively. On  November  1, 2003,  the  Company
redeemed the $300 million of 7.45% Surplus Notes outstanding scheduled to mature
on  November 1, 2023 at a redemption price  of $311 million. See "-- The Holding
Company -- Global Funding Sources."

     MetLife Funding serves as a centralized finance unit for Metropolitan Life.
Pursuant to a support agreement, Metropolitan  Life has agreed to cause  MetLife
Funding  to have a  tangible net worth of  at least one  dollar. At December 31,
2003 and 2002, MetLife  Funding had a  tangible net worth  of $10.8 million  and
$10.7  million, respectively. MetLife Funding  raises funds from various funding
sources and uses the proceeds to  extend loans, through MetLife Credit Corp.,  a
subsidiary  of Metropolitan Life, to the  Holding Company, Metropolitan Life and
other affiliates. MetLife  Funding manages  its funding sources  to enhance  the
financial  flexibility and liquidity  of Metropolitan Life  and other affiliated
companies. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, MetLife Funding had total  outstanding
liabilities,  including  accrued interest  payable, of  $1,042 million  and $400
million, respectively, consisting primarily of commercial paper.

     Credit Facilities.   The Company maintains  committed and unsecured  credit
facilities  aggregating $2.5 billion ($1 billion  expiring in 2004, $1.3 billion
expiring in 2005 and  $175 million expiring in  2006). If these facilities  were
drawn  upon, they would  bear interest at  varying rates in  accordance with the
respective

                                        79
<PAGE>

agreements. The facilities can be used  for general corporate purposes and  also
as  back-up  lines of  credit for  the Company's  commercial paper  programs. At
December 31, 2003,  the Company had  drawn approximately $49  million under  the
facilities  expiring in 2005 at  interest rates ranging from  4.08% to 5.48% and
approximately $50 million under a facility expiring in 2006 at an interest  rate
of  1.69%. In April 2003, the Company  replaced an expiring $1 billion five-year
credit facility with  a $1  billion 364-day credit  facility. In  May 2003,  the
Company replaced an expiring $140 million three-year credit facility with a $175
million three-year credit facility, which expires in 2006.

     Liquidity Uses

     Insurance  Liabilities.   The Company's  principal cash  outflows primarily
relate to the liabilities associated  with its various life insurance,  property
and  casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses and income
taxes, as well as  principal and interest on  its outstanding debt  obligations.
Liabilities  arising from its  insurance activities primarily  relate to benefit
payments under  the aforementioned  products,  as well  as payments  for  policy
surrenders, withdrawals and loans.

     Investment  and Other.   Additional cash outflows  include those related to
obligations of securities  lending and  dollar roll  activities, investments  in
real   estate,   limited   partnerships   and  joint   ventures,   as   well  as
litigation-related liabilities.

     The following table summarizes the Company's major contractual  obligations
as of December 31, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS           TOTAL     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008    THEREAFTER
-----------------------          -------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ----------
                                                       (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                              <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
Other long-term
  liabilities(1)...............  $87,086   $4,391   $3,812   $3,475   $3,763   $2,934    $68,711
Long-term debt(2)..............    5,646      126    1,413      653       28       32      3,394
Partnership investments(3).....    1,380    1,380       --       --       --       --         --
Operating leases...............    1,545      210      192      168      145      113        717
Mortgage commitments...........      679      679       --       --       --       --         --
Shares subject to mandatory
  redemption(2)................      350       --       --       --       --       --        350
Capital leases.................       74        8        9       10       11       12         24
                                 -------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------    -------
     Total.....................  $96,760   $6,794   $5,426   $4,306   $3,947   $3,091    $73,196
                                 =======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======    =======
</Table>

---------------

(1) Other   long-term   liabilities  include   guaranteed   interest  contracts,
    structured settlements, pension closeouts and certain annuity policies.

(2) Amounts differ  from  the balances  presented  on the  consolidated  balance
    sheets.  The amounts above do not  include related premiums and discounts or
    capital leases which are presented separately.

(3) The Company  anticipates  that these  amounts  could be  invested  in  these
    partnerships  any time over  the next five  years, but are  presented in the
    current period, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be
    predicted.

     As of December 31,  2003, the Company had  no material, individually or  in
the aggregate, purchase obligations and pension and other postretirement benefit
obligations.

     On  April 11, 2003, an affiliate of  the Company elected not to make future
payments required by the terms of a non-recourse loan obligation. The book value
of this loan was $15 million at December 31, 2003. The Company's exposure  under
the  terms of the applicable loan agreement  is limited solely to its investment
in certain securities held by an affiliate.

     Letters of  Credit.    At December  31,  2003  and 2002,  the  Company  had
outstanding  approximately  $828  million  and  $625  million,  respectively, in
letters of credit from various banks, all of which expire within one year. Since
commitments associated with  letters of  credit and  financing arrangements  may
expire  unused, these amounts do not  necessarily reflect the actual future cash
funding requirements.

                                        80
<PAGE>

     Support Agreements.  In addition to the support agreements described above,
Metropolitan Life  entered  into a  net  worth maintenance  agreement  with  New
England  Life Insurance Company ("NELICO") at  the time Metropolitan Life merged
with  New  England   Mutual  Life  Insurance   Company.  Under  the   agreement,
Metropolitan  Life agreed, without limitation as  to the amount, to cause NELICO
to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital  at
a  level  not  less than  the  company action  level  RBC, as  defined  by state
insurance statutes, and  liquidity necessary to  enable it to  meet its  current
obligations  on a timely basis. At December 31, 2003, the capital and surplus of
NELICO was in excess of the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above,
and its  total adjusted  capital was  in excess  of the  most recent  referenced
RBC-based amount calculated at December 31, 2003.

     In  connection with  the Company's acquisition  of GenAmerica, Metropolitan
Life entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with General American. Under
the agreement, Metropolitan  Life agreed,  without limitation as  to amount,  to
cause  General American to  have a minimum  capital and surplus  of $10 million,
total adjusted capital at a level not less than 180% of the company action level
RBC, as defined by state insurance  statutes, and liquidity necessary to  enable
it  to  meet  its current  obligations  on  a timely  basis.  The  agreement was
subsequently amended to provide that, for the five year period from 2003 through
2007, total adjusted capital must be maintained at a level not less than 200% of
the company  action  level RBC,  as  defined  by state  insurance  statutes.  At
December  31, 2003, the capital and surplus of General American was in excess of
the minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total  adjusted
capital  was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC-based amount calculated
at December 31, 2003.

     Metropolitan Life has  also entered  into arrangements for  the benefit  of
some  of its other  subsidiaries and affiliates to  assist such subsidiaries and
affiliates in meeting various  jurisdictions' regulatory requirements  regarding
capital  and surplus and  security deposits. In  addition, Metropolitan Life has
entered into a  support arrangement  with respect  to a  subsidiary under  which
Metropolitan  Life  may become  responsible, in  the  event that  the subsidiary
becomes the  subject  of insolvency  proceedings,  for the  payment  of  certain
reinsurance  recoverables due from the subsidiary to  one or more of its cedents
in accordance  with  the terms  and  conditions of  the  applicable  reinsurance
agreements.

     General American has agreed to guarantee the obligations of its subsidiary,
Paragon   Life  Insurance  Company,  and   certain  obligations  of  its  former
subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance  Company ("MetLife Investors"),  First
MetLife  Investors Insurance Company and  MetLife Investors Insurance Company of
California.  In  addition,  General  American  has  entered  into  a  contingent
reinsurance agreement with MetLife Investors. Under this agreement, in the event
that  MetLife Investors' statutory capital and  surplus is less than $10 million
or total adjusted capital falls below 150%  of the company action level RBC,  as
defined by state insurance statutes, General American would assume as assumption
reinsurance,  subject  to regulatory  approvals  and required  consents,  all of
MetLife Investors' life insurance policies and annuity contract liabilities.  At
December 31, 2003, the capital and surplus of MetLife Investors was in excess of
the  minimum capital and surplus amount referenced above, and its total adjusted
capital was in excess of the most recent referenced RBC-based amount  calculated
at December 31, 2003.

     Management  does  not anticipate  that  these arrangements  will  place any
significant demands upon the Company's liquidity resources.

     Litigation.  Various litigation claims and assessments against the  Company
have  arisen in the course of the Company's business, including, but not limited
to, in  connection  with  its  activities as  an  insurer,  employer,  investor,
investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities
and  other federal  and state authorities  regularly make  inquiries and conduct
investigations concerning the Company's compliance with applicable insurance and
other laws and regulations.

     It is not  feasible to  predict or determine  the ultimate  outcome of  all
pending  investigations and  legal proceedings  or provide  reasonable ranges of
potential losses except with respect to certain matters. In some of the matters,
very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble  damages,
are  sought. Although in light  of these considerations, it  is possible that an
adverse outcome in certain cases could  have a material adverse effect upon  the
Company's  consolidated financial position, based on information currently known
by the  Company's management,  in  its opinion,  the  outcomes of  such  pending
investigations and legal
                                        81
<PAGE>

proceedings  are not  likely to  have such an  effect. However,  given the large
and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent
unpredictability of  litigation,  it is  possible  that an  adverse  outcome  in
certain  matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated  net income  or  cash flows  in particular  quarterly  or
annual periods.

     Based  on management's analysis of its expected cash inflows from operating
activities, the dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including  Metropolitan
Life,  that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval
and its portfolio of liquid assets and other anticipated cash flows,  management
believes  there  will be  sufficient  liquidity to  enable  the Company  to make
payments on  debt, make  cash dividend  payments on  its common  stock, pay  all
operating  expenses and meet its other  obligations. The nature of the Company's
diverse product portfolio and  customer base lessen  the likelihood that  normal
operations will result in any significant strain on liquidity.

     Consolidated  cash flows.   Net cash  provided by  operating activities was
$7,363 million and  $4,168 million  for the years  ended December  31, 2003  and
2002,  respectively. The $3,195 million increase  in operating cash flow in 2003
over the comparable 2002 period is primarily attributable to sales growth in the
group life, dental, disability and long-term care businesses, as well as  higher
sales in retirement and savings' structured settlement products. The acquisition
of  John Hancock's group business  also contributed to sales  growth in the 2003
period. In addition,  growth in  MetLife Bank's  customer deposits,  accelerated
prepayments of mortgage-backed securities that have been previously purchased at
a  premium, and  an increase in  funds withheld related  to reinsurance activity
contributed to the increase in operating cash flows. These items were  partially
offset  by the Company's contribution to  its qualified defined benefit plans in
December 2003.

     Net cash provided  by operating  activities was $4,168  million and  $4,258
million  for the years ended  December 31, 2002 and  2001, respectively. The $90
million decrease in operating cash flow in 2002 over the 2001 comparable  period
is primarily due to a contribution by the Company to its defined benefit pension
plans and a decrease in recoverables due from reinsurance in December 2002. This
was  partially offset by sales growth in  the group life, dental, disability and
long-term care  businesses, the  sale of  a significant  retirement and  savings
contract  in  the  second  quarter  of 2002,  as  well  as  additional  sales of
structured settlements and traditional annuity products.

     Net cash  used in  investing  activities was  $17,688 million  and  $16,213
million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $1,475
million  increase in  net cash  used in  investing activities  in 2003  over the
comparable 2002 period is primarily attributable to an increase in the  purchase
of  fixed maturities  and commercial  mortgage loan  origination, as  well as an
increase in the  amount of  securities lending cash  collateral invested,  which
resulted  from an  expansion of the  program. In addition,  the Company invested
income generated  from  operations  and  cash raised  through  the  issuance  of
guaranteed  investment  contracts. These  items were  partially offset  by lower
income resulting  from lower  market  rates and  the  June 2002  acquisition  of
Hidalgo.  In addition, the  2003 period had  less proceeds from  sales of equity
securities and  real estate  to use  in investing  activities. The  2002  period
included  proceeds  from  a  significant  sale  of  equity  securities  and cash
generated by the Company's real estate sales program.

     Net cash  used  in investing  activities  was $16,213  million  and  $2,970
million  for the years ended December 31,  2002 and 2001, respectively. Net cash
used in  investing  activities  increased  $13,243  million  in  2002  over  the
comparable 2001 period, primarily due to an increase in the amount of securities
lending  cash collateral invested  in connection with  the program. In addition,
the Company invested income generated  from operations, cash raised through  the
issuance  of guaranteed investment contracts and cash generated by the Company's
real estate  sales program  in various  financial instruments,  including  fixed
maturities  and mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2001, the Company
held cash equivalents that were subsequently invested in bonds and U.S. treasury
notes in  the  first  quarter of  2002.  Additionally,  certain  contractholders
transferred  investments from the  separate account to  the general account. Net
cash used  in investing  activities also  increased due  to the  acquisition  of
Hidalgo.

     Net  cash provided by  financing activities was  $11,735 million and $6,895
million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $4,840
million increase in net cash provided  by financing activities in 2003 over  the
comparable  2002 period is  due to an increase  in policyholder account balances
                                        82
<PAGE>

primarily from sales of annuity products, as well as additional short-term  debt
issued  related to  dollar roll activity.  In 2003, the  Company received $1,006
million on  the settlement  of  common stock  purchase  contracts (see  "--  The
Holding  Company -- Liquidity  Sources -- Global  Funding Sources"), issued $700
million of senior notes and had a decrease in cash used in the stock  repurchase
program  as  compared  to  2002.  These  cash  flows  were  partially  offset by
additional repayments of long-term debt and a 10% increase in cash dividends per
share in 2003 as compared to 2002.

     Net cash provided  by financing  activities was $6,895  million and  $2,751
million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The $4,144
million increase in financing activities in 2002 over the comparable 2001 period
was  due to an increase in policyholder account balances primarily from sales of
annuity products and the issuance of  short-term debt. In addition, the  Company
had a decrease in cash used in the stock repurchase program for 2002 as compared
to  2001. These cash flows were partially offset by a decrease in long-term debt
issued.

INSOLVENCY ASSESSMENTS

     Most of the  jurisdictions in  which the  Company is  admitted to  transact
business  require  life  insurers  doing  business  within  the  jurisdiction to
participate in guaranty  associations, which  are organized  to pay  contractual
benefits  owed pursuant to  insurance policies issued  by impaired, insolvent or
failed life  insurers. These  associations levy  assessments, up  to  prescribed
limits,  on  all member  insurers  in a  particular state  on  the basis  of the
proportionate share of the premiums written  by member insurers in the lines  of
business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states
permit  member  insurers to  recover assessments  paid  through full  or partial
premium tax offsets. Assessments levied against the Company from January 1, 2001
through December  31,  2003 aggregated  $7  million. The  Company  maintained  a
liability  of $70 million at December 31, 2003 for future assessments in respect
of currently impaired, insolvent or failed insurers.

     In the past five  years, none of the  aggregate assessments levied  against
MetLife's  insurance subsidiaries has been material. The Company has established
liabilities for  guaranty  fund  assessments  that  it  considers  adequate  for
assessments  with respect to  insurers that are  currently subject to insolvency
proceedings.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

     The Company does not  believe that inflation has  had a material effect  on
its  consolidated results of operations, except  insofar as inflation may affect
interest rates.

APPLICATION OF RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     Effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force
("EITF") Issue No. 03-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and  Its
Application  to Certain Investments, ("EITF  03-1"). EITF 03-1 provides guidance
on the disclosure requirements for other-than-temporary impairments of debt  and
marketable  equity  investments  that  are  accounted  for  under  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS")  No.  115,  Accounting  for   Certain
Investments  in Debt and  Equity Securities. The adoption  of EITF 03-1 requires
the Company to include certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt
and  marketable   equity   securities  classified   as   available-for-sale   or
held-to-maturity  under SFAS 115 that are impaired at the balance sheet date but
for which  an  other-than-temporary  impairment has  not  been  recognized.  The
initial  adoption of EITF 03-1, which  only required additional disclosures, did
not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     In December,  2003,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")
revised   SFAS  No.  132,  Employers'   Disclosures  about  Pensions  and  Other
Postretirement Benefits -- an  Amendment of FASB Statements  No. 87, 88 and  106
("SFAS 132(r)"). SFAS 132(r) retains most of the disclosure requirements of SFAS
132 and requires additional disclosure about assets, obligations, cash flows and
net  periodic benefit  cost of defined  benefit pension plans  and other defined
postretirement plans. SFAS 132(r) is primarily effective for fiscal years ending
after December 15, 2003;  however, certain disclosures  about foreign plans  and
estimated  future benefit payments  are effective for  fiscal years ending after
June 15, 2004. The Company's  adoption of SFAS 132(r)  on December 31, 2003  did
not    have    a   significant    impact    on   its    consolidated   financial
                                        83
<PAGE>

statements since it only revises  disclosure requirements. In January 2004,  the
FASB  issued FASB  Staff Position ("FSP")  No. 106-1,  Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements  Related  to  the  Medicare  Prescription  Drug,  Improvement   and
Modernization  Act  of  2003  ("FSP  106-1"),  which  permits  a  sponsor  of  a
postretirement health care  plan that  provides a prescription  drug benefit  to
make  a  one-time  election to  defer  accounting  for the  effects  of  the new
legislation. The  Company has  elected  to defer  the accounting  until  further
guidance is issued by the FASB. The measurements of the Company's postretirement
accumulated benefit plan obligation and net periodic benefit cost do not reflect
the effects of the new legislation. The guidance, when issued, could require the
Company to change previously reported information.

     In  July 2003, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Certified  Public Accountants  issued Statement  of Position  03-1,
Accounting  and Reporting  by Insurance  Enterprises for  Certain Nontraditional
Long-Duration Contracts  and  for  Separate  Accounts  ("SOP  03-1").  SOP  03-1
provides  guidance  on (i)  the  classification and  valuation  of long-duration
contract liabilities,  (ii)  the accounting  for  sales inducements,  and  (iii)
separate  account presentation and  valuation. SOP 03-1  is effective for fiscal
years beginning after  December 15,  2003. As of  January 1,  2004, the  Company
increased  future policyholder benefits for various guaranteed minimum death and
income benefits net of DAC and unearned revenue liability offsets under  certain
variable  annuity and universal life contracts of approximately $40 million, net
of income tax,  which will be  reported as a  cumulative effect of  a change  in
accounting.  Industry standards and practices continue to evolve relating to the
valuation of liabilities relating to these  types of benefits, which may  result
in  further adjustments to  the Company's measurement  of liabilities associated
with such benefits in subsequent accounting periods. Effective with the adoption
of SOP  03-1,  costs  associated  with enhanced  or  bonus  crediting  rates  to
contractholders  will be  deferred and  amortized over  the life  of the related
contract using assumptions  consistent with  the amortization of  DAC. Prior  to
adoption  of SOP  03-1, the costs  associated with these  sales inducements have
been deferred and amortized  over the contingent  sales inducement period.  This
provision  of SOP  03-1 will  be applied  prospectively to  contracts. Effective
January 1, 2004, the Company reclassified  $115 million of ownership in its  own
separate  accounts from other assets  to fixed maturities available-for-sale and
equity securities. This reclassification  will have no effect  on net income  or
other  comprehensive income. In accordance with SOP 03-1's revised definition of
a separate account,  effective January  1, 2004, the  Company also  reclassified
$1,678  million of  separate account assets  to general  account investments and
$1,678 million of  separate account  liabilities to future  policy benefits  and
policyholder   account   balances.   The   net   cumulative   effect   of   this
reclassification was insignificant.

     In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristics  of Both Liabilities  and Equity ("SFAS  150").
SFAS  150  clarifies  the  accounting  for  certain  financial  instruments with
characteristics  of  both  liabilities  and  equity  and  requires  that   those
instruments be classified as a liability or, in certain circumstances, an asset.
SFAS  150 is effective for financial  instruments entered into or modified after
May 31, 2003 and otherwise  is effective at the  beginning of the first  interim
period  beginning after June 15,  2003. The adoption of SFAS  150, as of July 1,
2003, required  the  Company to  reclassify  $277 million  of  company-obligated
mandatorily  redeemable securities of subsidiary trusts from mezzanine equity to
liabilities.

     In April 2003, the FASB cleared Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B36,
Embedded Derivatives:  Modified Coinsurance  Arrangements and  Debt  Instruments
That  Incorporate Credit  Risk Exposures  That Are  Unrelated or  Only Partially
Related to the Creditworthiness of  the Obligor under Those Instruments  ("Issue
B36").  Issue B36 concluded  that (i) a company's  funds withheld payable and/or
receivable under certain  reinsurance arrangements, and  (ii) a debt  instrument
that  incorporates credit  risk exposures that  are unrelated  or only partially
related to the creditworthiness  of the obligor  include an embedded  derivative
feature that is not clearly and closely related to the host contract. Therefore,
the  embedded derivative feature must  be measured at fair  value on the balance
sheet and changes in fair value  reported in income. Issue B36 became  effective
on  October 1,  2003 and required  the Company to  increase policyholder account
balances by $40 million, to decrease other invested assets by $1 million and  to
increase  DAC by $2  million. These amounts,  net of income  tax of $13 million,
were recorded as a cumulative effect of  a change in accounting. As a result  of
the  adoption  of  Issue B36,  the  Company  recognized investment  gains  of $9
million, net of income tax, for the three month period ended December 31, 2003.

                                        84
<PAGE>

     In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133  on
Derivative  Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 149"). SFAS 149 amends and
clarifies the  accounting and  reporting for  derivative instruments,  including
certain  derivative  instruments embedded  in other  contracts, and  for hedging
activities. Except for certain implementation  guidance that is incorporated  in
SFAS 149 and already effective, SFAS 149 is effective for contracts entered into
or  modified after June 30, 2003. The Company's  adoption of SFAS 149 on July 1,
2003 did not have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.

     During 2003, the Company adopted  FASB Interpretation No. 46  Consolidation
of  Variable Interest Entities -- An Interpretation of ARB No. 51 ("FIN 46") and
its December 2003 revision ("FIN 46(r)"). Certain of the Company's  asset-backed
securitizations,   collateralized   debt   obligations,   structured  investment
transactions, and investments in  real estate joint  ventures and other  limited
partnership  interests meet the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE")
and must be consolidated, in accordance with the transition rules and  effective
dates,  if the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. A VIE is defined
as (i) any entity in which the equity investments at risk in such entity do  not
have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, or (ii) any entity
that  does not have sufficient equity at  risk to finance its activities without
additional subordinated support from other parties. Effective February 1,  2003,
the  Company adopted FIN 46 for VIEs created or acquired on or after February 1,
2003 and,  effective December  31,  2003, the  Company  adopted FIN  46(r)  with
respect  to interests in  entities formerly considered  special purpose entities
("SPEs"), including interests in asset-backed securities and collateralized debt
obligations. In accordance  with the provisions  of FIN 46(r),  the Company  has
elected to defer until March 31, 2004 the consolidation of interests in VIEs for
non  SPEs  acquired  prior to  February  1, 2003  for  which it  is  the primary
beneficiary. The  adoption of  FIN 46  as of  February 1,  2003 did  not have  a
significant  impact  on  the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements. The
adoption of the provisions of FIN 46(r) at December 31, 2003 did not require the
Company  to  consolidate   any  additional   VIEs  that   were  not   previously
consolidated.

     During  2003,  the  Company  adopted or  applied  the  following accounting
standards and/or  interpretations:  (i)  FASB  Interpretation  ("FIN")  No.  45,
Guarantor's  Accounting  and Disclosure  Requirements for  Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others; (ii) SFAS No. 148, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation  --  Transition and  Disclosure;  (iii) SFAS  No.  146,
Accounting  for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities; and (iv) SFAS
No. 145, Rescission  of FASB Statements  No. 4,  44, and 64,  Amendment of  FASB
Statement  No. 13, and  Technical Corrections. None  of the accounting standards
and/or interpretations described in this  paragraph had a significant impact  on
the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     During  2002,  the  Company  adopted or  applied  the  following accounting
standards: (i) SFAS No. 141, Business  Combinations ("SFAS 141"), (ii) SFAS  No.
142,  and (iii) SFAS No. 144. In accordance with SFAS 141, the elimination of $5
million of negative goodwill was reported in net income in the first quarter  of
2002  as a cumulative effect of a change  in accounting. On January 1, 2002, the
Company adopted SFAS 142. Amortization of goodwill prior to the adoption of SFAS
142 was $47 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Amortization of  other
intangible  assets was not  material for the  years December 31,  2003, 2002 and
2001. The  Company  completed the  required  impairment tests  of  goodwill  and
indefinite-lived  intangible assets in the third  quarter of 2002 and recorded a
$5 million charge  to earnings relating  to the impairment  of certain  goodwill
assets as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting. There was no impairment
of   identified  intangible  assets  or  significant  reclassifications  between
goodwill and other intangible  assets at January 1,  2002. Adoption of SFAS  144
did  not  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company's  consolidated  financial
statements other  than  the  presentation  as  discontinued  operations  of  net
investment  income and net investment gains related to operations of real estate
on which the Company initiated  disposition activities subsequent to January  1,
2002  and  the  classification  of  such real  estate  as  held-for-sale  on the
consolidated balance sheets.

INVESTMENTS

     The Company had  total cash and  invested assets at  December 31, 2003  and
2002  of  $221.8  billion and  $190.7  billion, respectively.  In  addition, the
Company  had   $75.8  billion   and   $59.7  billion   held  in   its   separate

                                        85
<PAGE>

accounts,  for which the Company generally does  not bear investment risk, as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     The Company's primary  investment objective is  to maximize net  investment
income  consistent with  acceptable risk parameters.  The Company  is exposed to
three primary sources of investment risk:

     - credit risk, relating  to the uncertainty  associated with the  continued
       ability  of  a given  obligor to  make timely  payments of  principal and
       interest;

     - interest  rate  risk,  relating  to  the  market  price  and  cash   flow
       variability associated with changes in market interest rates; and

     - market valuation risk.

     The  Company  manages risk  through  in-house fundamental  analysis  of the
underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties.
The Company also manages credit risk and market valuation risk through  industry
and   issuer  diversification  and   asset  allocation.  For   real  estate  and
agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and valuation risk  through
geographic,   property  type,   and  product  type   diversification  and  asset
allocation. The Company  manages interest  rate risk as  part of  its asset  and
liability management strategies, product design, such as the use of market value
adjustment   features  and  surrender  charges,  and  proactive  monitoring  and
management of  certain non-guaranteed  elements  of its  products, such  as  the
resetting  of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such
adjustments.

     The following table summarizes the Company's cash and invested assets at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               DECEMBER 31,
                                                   -------------------------------------
                                                         2003                2002
                                                   -----------------   -----------------
                                                   CARRYING    % OF    CARRYING    % OF
                                                    VALUE     TOTAL     VALUE     TOTAL
                                                   --------   ------   --------   ------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
Fixed maturities available-for-sale, at fair
  value..........................................  $167,752     75.6%  $140,288     73.6%
Mortgage loans on real estate....................    26,249     11.8     25,086     13.2
Policy loans.....................................     8,749      4.0      8,580      4.5
Cash and cash equivalents........................     3,733      1.7      2,323      1.2
Real estate and real estate joint ventures
  held-for-investment............................     4,714      2.1      3,926      2.1
Other invested assets............................     4,645      2.1      3,727      1.9
Equity securities, at fair value and other
  limited partnership interests..................     4,075      1.8      4,008      2.1
Short-term investments...........................     1,826      0.8      1,921      1.0
Real estate held-for-sale........................        89      0.1        799      0.4
                                                   --------   ------   --------   ------
     Total cash and invested assets..............  $221,832    100.0%  $190,658    100.0%
                                                   ========   ======   ========   ======
</Table>

                                        86
<PAGE>

  INVESTMENT RESULTS

     Net  investment income,  including net investment  income from discontinued
operations and scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative  instruments
that  do not  qualify for  hedge accounting under  SFAS No.  133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments  and  Hedging Activities,  as  amended ("SFAS  133"),  on
general  account  cash  and  invested assets  totaled  $11,772  million, $11,453
million and $11,380  million for  the years ended  December 31,  2003, 2002  and
2001,  respectively. The annualized yields on  general account cash and invested
assets,  including  net  investment  income  from  discontinued  operations  and
scheduled  periodic settlement  payments on  derivative instruments  that do not
qualify for  hedge  accounting  under  SFAS  No.  133,  and  excluding  all  net
investment  gains and losses,  were 6.67%, 7.20%  and 7.56% for  the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decline in annualized yields
is due primarily to the decline in interest rates during these years.

     The following table  illustrates the net  investment income and  annualized
yields  on average assets for each of the components of the Company's investment
portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                           2003                  2002                  2001
                                    -------------------   -------------------   -------------------
                                    YIELD(1)    AMOUNT    YIELD(1)    AMOUNT    YIELD(1)    AMOUNT
                                    --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                 <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
FIXED MATURITIES:(2)
Investment income.................    6.89%    $  8,502     7.46%    $  8,076     7.89%    $  8,018
Net investment gains (losses).....                 (398)                 (917)                 (645)
                                               --------              --------              --------
    Total.........................             $  8,104              $  7,159              $  7,373
                                               --------              --------              --------
Ending assets.....................             $167,752              $140,288              $115,150
                                               --------              --------              --------
MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE:(3)
Investment income.................    7.48%    $  1,903     7.84%    $  1,883     8.17%    $  1,848
Net investment gains (losses).....                  (56)                  (22)                  (91)
                                               --------              --------              --------
    Total.........................             $  1,847              $  1,861              $  1,757
                                               --------              --------              --------
Ending assets.....................             $ 26,249              $ 25,086              $ 23,621
                                               --------              --------              --------
POLICY LOANS:
Investment income.................    6.40%    $    554     6.49%    $    543     6.56%    $    536
                                               --------              --------              --------
Ending assets.....................             $  8,749              $  8,580              $  8,272
                                               --------              --------              --------
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-
  TERM INVESTMENTS:
Investment income.................    2.73%    $    165     4.17%    $    232     5.54%    $    279
Net investment gains (losses).....                    1                    --                    (5)
                                               --------              --------              --------
    Total.........................             $    166              $    232              $    274
                                               --------              --------              --------
Ending assets.....................             $  5,559              $  4,244              $  8,676
                                               --------              --------              --------
REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT
  VENTURES:(4)
Investment income, net of
  expenses........................   10.78%    $    518    11.41%    $    637    10.58%    $    584
Net investment gains (losses).....                  440                   576                    (4)
                                               --------              --------              --------
    Total.........................             $    958              $  1,213              $    580
                                               --------              --------              --------
Ending assets.....................             $  4,803              $  4,725              $  5,730
                                               --------              --------              --------
</Table>

                                        87
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                           2003                  2002                  2001
                                    -------------------   -------------------   -------------------
                                    YIELD(1)    AMOUNT    YIELD(1)    AMOUNT    YIELD(1)    AMOUNT
                                    --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                 <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER
  LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS:
Investment income.................    2.66%    $    106     2.47%    $     99     2.56%    $    110
Net investment gains (losses).....                  (43)                  222                   (96)
                                               --------              --------              --------
    Total.........................             $     63              $    321              $     14
                                               --------              --------              --------
Ending assets.....................             $  4,075              $  4,008              $  4,948
                                               --------              --------              --------
OTHER INVESTED ASSETS:(5)
Investment income.................    6.84%    $    290     6.42%    $    218     7.60%    $    249
Net investment gains (losses).....                 (180)                 (206)                   79
                                               --------              --------              --------
    Total.........................             $    110              $     12              $    328
                                               --------              --------              --------
Ending assets.....................             $  4,645              $  3,727              $  3,298
                                               --------              --------              --------
TOTAL INVESTMENTS:
Investment income before expenses
  and fees........................    6.82%    $ 12,038     7.35%    $ 11,688     7.72%    $ 11,624
Investment expenses and fees......   (0.15)%       (266)   (0.15)%       (235)   (0.16)%       (244)
                                     -----     --------    -----     --------    -----     --------
Net investment income.............    6.67%    $ 11,772     7.20%    $ 11,453     7.56%    $ 11,380
Net investment gains (losses).....                 (236)                 (347)                 (762)
Adjustments to investment gains
  (losses)(6).....................                  215                   145                   134
Gains from sales of
  subsidiaries....................                   --                    --                    25
                                               --------              --------              --------
    Total.........................             $ 11,751              $ 11,251              $ 10,777
                                               ========              ========              ========
</Table>

---------------

(1) Yields are  based  on quarterly  average  asset carrying  values,  excluding
    recognized  and  unrealized  gains  and losses,  and  for  yield calculation
    purposes, average assets  exclude collateral associated  with the  Company's
    securities lending program.

(2) Included  in fixed maturities are equity-linked  notes of $880 million, $834
    million,  and  $1,004  million  at   December  31,  2003,  2002  and   2001,
    respectively,  which include an equity-like component  as part of the notes'
    return. Investment income for fixed maturities includes prepayment fees  and
    income from the securities lending program. Fixed maturity investment income
    has been reduced by rebates paid under the securities lending program.

(3) Investment  income from  mortgage loans  on real  estate includes prepayment
    fees.

(4) Real  estate  and  real  estate  joint  venture  income  is  shown  net   of
    depreciation  of $183 million,  $227 million and $220  million for the years
    ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and  2001, respectively. Real estate and  real
    estate  joint  venture income  includes  amounts classified  as discontinued
    operations of $52 million, $160 million and $169 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001,  respectively. These amounts  are net  of
    depreciation of $15 million, $66 million and $93 million for the years ended
    December  31, 2003,  2002 and 2001,  respectively. Net  investment gains and
    losses include  $421  million  and  $582  million  of  gains  classified  as
    discontinued  operations for  the years  ended December  31, 2003  and 2002,
    respectively. There were no  net investment gains  and losses classified  as
    discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2001.

(5) Investment  income from  other invested  assets includes  scheduled periodic
    settlement payments on derivative instruments that do not qualify for  hedge
    accounting  under SFAS 133 of  $84 million, $32 million  and $24 million for
    the years  ended  December 31,  2003,  2002 and  2001,  respectively.  These
    amounts  are  excluded  from  net investment  gains  and  losses  from other
    invested assets.

(6) Adjustments to  investment gains  and losses  include amortization  of  DAC,
    charges  and  credits  to  participating contracts  and  adjustments  to the
    policyholder dividend obligation resulting from investment gains and losses.

                                        88
<PAGE>

  FIXED MATURITIES

     Fixed maturities  consist  principally  of publicly  traded  and  privately
placed  debt  securities, and  represented  75.6% and  73.6%  of total  cash and
invested assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Based on  estimated
fair  value, public fixed maturities represented $147,489 million, or 87.9%, and
$121,191 million, or 86.4%, of total  fixed maturities at December 31, 2003  and
2002,  respectively.  Based on  estimated fair  value, private  fixed maturities
represented $20,263 million, or 12.1%, and  $19,097 million, or 13.6%, of  total
fixed  maturities  at  December 31,  2003  and 2002,  respectively.  The Company
invests in privately placed  fixed maturities to (i)  obtain higher yields  than
can  ordinarily  be  obtained  with comparable  public  market  securities; (ii)
provide the Company  with protective  covenants, call  protection features  and,
where   applicable,   a  higher   level  of   collateral;  and   (iii)  increase
diversification. However, the Company may not freely trade its privately  placed
fixed maturities because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities
laws and illiquid markets.

     In  cases where  quoted market  prices are  not available,  fair values are
estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The fair value  estimates
are  made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and
judgments about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and
amounts of expected future cash flows and  the credit standing of the issuer  or
counter-party. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit
rating,  industry sector  of the issuer  and quoted market  prices of comparable
securities.

     The Securities Valuation Office  of the NAIC  evaluates the fixed  maturity
investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities
to one of six investment categories called "NAIC designations." The NAIC ratings
are  similar  to the  rating agency  designations  of the  Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating  Organizations for  marketable bonds.  NAIC ratings  1 and  2
include  bonds generally considered investment grade  (rated "Baa3" or higher by
Moody's Investors Services ("Moody's"), or rated "BBB-" or higher by Standard  &
Poor's  ("S&P")) by such rating organizations.  NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include
bonds generally  considered below  investment  grade (rated  "Ba1" or  lower  by
Moody's, or rated "BB+" or lower by S&P).

     The  following  table  presents  the Company's  total  fixed  maturities by
Nationally Recognized  Statistical  Rating  Organizations  designation  and  the
equivalent  ratings of the NAIC,  as well as the  percentage, based on estimated
fair value, that each designation comprises at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                              DECEMBER 31, 2003                DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                        ------------------------------   ------------------------------
NAIC            RATING AGENCY           AMORTIZED   ESTIMATED    % OF    AMORTIZED   ESTIMATED    % OF
RATING          DESIGNATION(1)            COST      FAIR VALUE   TOTAL     COST      FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
------          --------------          ---------   ----------   -----   ---------   ----------   -----
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<C>      <S>                            <C>         <C>          <C>     <C>         <C>          <C>
 1       Aaa/Aa/A....................   $106,779     $112,333     67.0%  $ 88,201     $ 94,225     67.2%
 2       Baa.........................     39,006       42,057     25.0     32,093       33,997     24.2
 3       Ba..........................      7,388        8,011      4.8      7,519        7,437      5.3
 4       B...........................      3,578        3,814      2.3      3,636        3,408      2.4
 5       Caa and lower...............        630          629      0.4        404          295      0.3
 6       In or near default..........        341          371      0.2        482          479      0.3
                                        --------     --------    -----   --------     --------    -----
         Subtotal....................    157,722      167,215     99.7    132,335      139,841     99.7
         Redeemable preferred                611          537      0.3        564          447      0.3
         stock.......................
                                        --------     --------    -----   --------     --------    -----
         Total fixed maturities......   $158,333     $167,752    100.0%  $132,899     $140,288    100.0%
                                        ========     ========    =====   ========     ========    =====
</Table>

---------------

(1) Amounts presented  are  based  on rating  agency  designations.  Comparisons
    between  NAIC ratings  and rating agency  designations are  published by the
    NAIC. The rating agency designations are  based on the availability and  the
    lower  of the applicable ratings between Moody's and S&P. The current period
    ratings are now presented so that  the consolidated rating will be equal  to
    the  Moody's or S&P rating, whichever is  more conservative. If no rating is
    available from a rating agency, then the MetLife rating will be used.  Prior
    period ratings have been restated to conform with this presentation.
                                        89
<PAGE>

     Based on estimated fair values, investment grade fixed maturities comprised
92.0% and 91.4% of total fixed maturities in the general account at December 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively.

     The  following table shows  the amortized cost and  estimated fair value of
fixed maturities,  by contractual  maturity dates  (excluding scheduled  sinking
funds) at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                               DECEMBER 31, 2003        DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                             ----------------------   ----------------------
                                             AMORTIZED   ESTIMATED    AMORTIZED   ESTIMATED
                                               COST      FAIR VALUE     COST      FAIR VALUE
                                             ---------   ----------   ---------   ----------
                                                          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
Due in one year or less....................  $  5,381     $  5,542    $  4,592     $  4,662
Due after one year through five years......    30,893       32,431      26,200       27,354
Due after five years through ten years.....    29,342       31,830      23,297       24,987
Due after ten years........................    39,011       43,064      35,507       38,452
                                             --------     --------    --------     --------
     Subtotal..............................   104,627      112,867      89,596       95,455
Mortgage-backed and other asset-backed
  securities...............................    53,095       54,348      42,739       44,386
                                             --------     --------    --------     --------
     Subtotal..............................   157,722      167,215     132,335      139,841
Redeemable preferred stock.................       611          537         564          447
                                             --------     --------    --------     --------
     Total fixed maturities................  $158,333     $167,752    $132,899     $140,288
                                             ========     ========    ========     ========
</Table>

     Bonds  not due at  a single maturity  date have been  included in the above
table in  the  year  of  final  maturity.  Actual  maturities  may  differ  from
contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options.

     The fixed maturities portfolio is diversified across a broad range of asset
sectors,  and the asset mix did not  change significantly in 2003. The following
tables set  forth  the amortized  cost,  gross  unrealized gain  and  loss,  and
estimated fair value of the Company's fixed maturities by sector, as well as the
percentage  of the total fixed maturities holdings that each sector is comprised
of at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                          -------------------------------------------------
                                                      GROSS UNREALIZED
                                          AMORTIZED   ----------------   ESTIMATED    % OF
                                            COST        GAIN     LOSS    FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
                                          ---------   --------   -----   ----------   -----
                                                        (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                       <C>         <C>        <C>     <C>          <C>
U.S. corporate securities...............  $ 56,757    $ 3,886    $252     $ 60,391     36.0%
Mortgage-backed securities..............    30,836        720     102       31,454     18.8
Foreign corporate securities............    21,727      2,194      79       23,842     14.2
U.S. treasuries/agencies................    14,707      1,264      26       15,945      9.5
Asset-backed securities.................    11,736        187      60       11,863      7.1
Commercial mortgage-backed securities...    10,523        530      22       11,031      6.6
Foreign government securities...........     7,789      1,003      28        8,764      5.2
State and political subdivisions........     3,155        209      15        3,349      2.0
Other fixed income assets...............       492        167      83          576      0.3
                                          --------    -------    ----     --------    -----
     Total bonds........................   157,722     10,160     667      167,215     99.7
Redeemable preferred stocks.............       611          2      76          537      0.3
                                          --------    -------    ----     --------    -----
     Total fixed maturities.............  $158,333    $10,162    $743     $167,752    100.0%
                                          ========    =======    ====     ========    =====
</Table>

                                        90
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                         --------------------------------------------------
                                                     GROSS UNREALIZED
                                         AMORTIZED   -----------------   ESTIMATED    % OF
                                           COST       GAIN      LOSS     FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
                                         ---------   -------   -------   ----------   -----
                                                       (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                      <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>          <C>
U.S. corporate securities..............  $ 47,021    $3,193    $  957     $ 49,257     35.1%
Mortgage-backed securities.............    26,966     1,076        16       28,026     20.0
Foreign corporate securities...........    18,001     1,435       207       19,229     13.7
U.S. treasuries/agencies...............    14,373     1,565         4       15,934     11.4
Asset-backed securities................     9,483       228       208        9,503      6.8
Commercial mortgage-backed
  securities...........................     6,290       573         6        6,857      4.9
Foreign government securities..........     7,012       636        52        7,596      5.4
State and political subdivisions.......     2,580       182        20        2,742      1.9
Other fixed income assets..............       609       191       103          697      0.5
                                         --------    ------    ------     --------    -----
     Total bonds.......................   132,335     9,079     1,573      139,841     99.7
Redeemable preferred stocks............       564        --       117          447      0.3
                                         --------    ------    ------     --------    -----
     Total fixed maturities............  $132,899    $9,079    $1,690     $140,288    100.0%
                                         ========    ======    ======     ========    =====
</Table>

     Potential Problem, Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities.  The  Company
monitors  fixed maturities to identify  investments that management considers to
be potential problems or  problems. The Company  also monitors investments  that
have been restructured.

     The  Company  defines potential  problem securities  in the  fixed maturity
category as  securities  of an  issuer  deemed to  be  experiencing  significant
operating  problems or difficult  industry conditions. The  Company uses various
criteria, including the following, to identify potential problem securities:

     - debt service coverage or cash flow falling below certain thresholds which
       vary according to the issuer's industry and other relevant factors;

     - significant declines in revenues or margins;

     - violation of financial covenants;

     - public securities  trading  at a  substantial  discount as  a  result  of
       specific credit concerns; and

     - other subjective factors.

     The  Company defines problem securities in the fixed maturities category as
securities with  principal or  interest payments  in default,  securities to  be
restructured  pursuant  to commenced  negotiations,  or securities  issued  by a
debtor that has entered into bankruptcy.

     The  Company  defines  restructured  securities  in  the  fixed  maturities
category  as securities to  which the Company  has granted a  concession that it
would not have otherwise  considered but for the  financial difficulties of  the
obligor.  The  Company enters  into  a restructuring  when  it believes  it will
realize a  greater  economic value  under  the  new terms  rather  than  through
liquidation  or disposition. The terms of  the restructuring may involve some or
all of  the following  characteristics: a  reduction in  the interest  rate,  an
extension  of the  maturity date, an  exchange of  debt for equity  or a partial
forgiveness of principal or interest.

                                        91
<PAGE>

     The following  table presents  the estimated  fair value  of the  Company's
total  fixed maturities classified as performing, potential problem, problem and
restructured at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                   DECEMBER 31, 2003    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                                   ------------------   ------------------
                                                   ESTIMATED    % OF    ESTIMATED    % OF
                                                   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
                                                   ----------   -----   ----------   -----
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                <C>          <C>     <C>          <C>
Performing.......................................   $167,125     99.6%   $139,452     99.4%
Potential problem................................        282      0.2         450      0.3
Problem..........................................        264      0.2         358      0.3
Restructured.....................................         81      0.0          28      0.0
                                                    --------    -----    --------    -----
     Total.......................................   $167,752    100.0%   $140,288    100.0%
                                                    ========    =====    ========    =====
</Table>

     Fixed Maturity  Impairment.    The  Company classifies  all  of  its  fixed
maturities  as  available-for-sale  and  marks  them  to  market  through  other
comprehensive income.  All  securities  with  gross  unrealized  losses  at  the
consolidated  balance  sheet date  are subjected  to  the Company's  process for
identifying other-than-temporary impairments.  The Company writes  down to  fair
value  securities that  it deems  to be  other-than-temporarily impaired  in the
period the securities are  deemed to be so  impaired. The assessment of  whether
such impairment has occurred is based on management's case-by-case evaluation of
the  underlying reasons  for the decline  in fair value.  Management considers a
wide range of factors,  as described below, about  the security issuer and  uses
its  best judgment in evaluating the cause  of the decline in the estimated fair
value of the  security and in  assessing the prospects  for near-term  recovery.
Inherent  in  management's  evaluation  of  the  security  are  assumptions  and
estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential.

     Considerations used by  the Company  in the  impairment evaluation  process
include, but are not limited to, the following:

     - length  of time and the  extent to which the  market value has been below
       amortized cost;

     - potential for impairments of securities  when the issuer is  experiencing
       significant  financial difficulties, including a review of all securities
       of  the  issuer,  including   its  known  subsidiaries  and   affiliates,
       regardless of the form of the Company's ownership;

     - potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;

     - potential  for impairments  in certain  economically depressed geographic
       locations;

     - potential for  impairments  of securities  where  the issuer,  series  of
       issuers  or  industry has  suffered a  catastrophic type  of loss  or has
       exhausted natural resources; and

     - other  subjective  factors,  including  concentrations  and   information
       obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

     The  Company's review of  its fixed maturities  for impairments includes an
analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
(i) securities where the  estimated fair value had  declined and remained  below
amortized  cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value
had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for less than  six
months; and (iii) securities where the estimated value had declined and remained
below  amortized cost by  20% or more for  six months or  greater. The first two
categories have  generally  been  adversely  impacted by  the  downturn  in  the
financial markets and overall economic conditions. While all of these securities
are  monitored for potential impairment, the Company's experience indicates that
the first two  categories do  not present  as great  a risk  of impairment,  and
often,  fair values recover  over time as  the factors that  caused the declines
improve.

     The Company records writedowns  as investment losses  and adjusts the  cost
basis  of  the fixed  maturities accordingly.  The Company  does not  change the
revised cost  basis for  subsequent  recoveries in  value. Writedowns  of  fixed
maturities were $338 million and $1,264 million for the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company's three largest writedowns totaled $125
million and $352 million for the

                                        92
<PAGE>

years  ended December  31, 2003 and  2002, respectively.  The circumstances that
gave  rise  to  these  impairments  were  either  financial  restructurings   or
bankruptcy  filings.  During the  years ended  December 31,  2003 and  2002, the
Company sold fixed maturities with a  fair value of $30,714 million and  $14,597
million at a loss of $486 million and $894 million, respectively.

     The  following table presents  the total gross  unrealized losses for fixed
maturities where  the  estimated fair  value  had declined  and  remained  below
amortized cost by:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                                              ----------------------
                                                                 GROSS
                                                               UNREALIZED     % OF
                                                                 LOSSES       TOTAL
                                                              ------------   -------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>            <C>
Less than 20%...............................................      $677         91.1%
20% or more for less than six months........................        22          3.0
20% or more for six months or greater.......................        44          5.9
                                                                  ----        -----
     Total..................................................      $743        100.0%
                                                                  ====        =====
</Table>

     The  gross unrealized  loss related  to the  Company's fixed  maturities at
December 31, 2003 was $743 million. These fixed maturities mature as follows: 1%
due in one year or less; 23% due in greater than one year to five years; 18% due
in greater than five years to ten years;  and 58% due in greater than ten  years
(calculated  as a percentage  of amortized cost).  Additionally, such securities
are concentrated by sector in  U.S. corporates (34%), mortgage-backed (17%)  and
foreign  corporates (11%); and  are concentrated by  industry in mortgage-backed
(13%), utilities (12%)  and finance (8%)  (calculated as a  percentage of  gross
unrealized  loss). Non-investment grade  securities represent 6%  of the $30,881
million fair value and 20%  of the $743 million  gross unrealized loss on  fixed
maturities.

     The  following table presents  the amortized cost,  gross unrealized losses
and number of securities for fixed maturities where the estimated fair value had
declined and remained below amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more for:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                  ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        GROSS UNREALIZED
                                    AMORTIZED COST           LOSSES         NUMBER OF SECURITIES
                                  ------------------   ------------------   ---------------------
                                  LESS THAN   20% OR   LESS THAN   20% OR   LESS THAN     20% OR
                                     20%       MORE       20%       MORE       20%         MORE
                                  ---------   ------   ---------   ------   ----------   --------
                                                       (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                               <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>      <C>          <C>
Less than six months............   $24,926     $ 67      $449       $22       1,331         18
Six months or greater but less
  than nine months..............     3,217       19        84         4         264          2
Nine months or greater but less
  than twelve months............       266       17         7         4          45          3
Twelve months or greater........     2,999      113       137        36         311         19
                                   -------     ----      ----       ---       -----         --
     Total......................   $31,408     $216      $677       $66       1,951         42
                                   =======     ====      ====       ===       =====         ==
</Table>

     The category of fixed  maturity securities where  the estimated fair  value
has  declined and remained below amortized cost by less than 20% is comprised of
1,951 securities  with  an  amortized  cost  of  $31,408  million  and  a  gross
unrealized  loss of  $677 million at  December 31, 2003.  These fixed maturities
mature as follows: 1% due in one year or less; 23% due in greater than one  year
to  five years; 18% due in greater than five  years to ten years; and 58% due in
greater  than  ten  years  (calculated  as  a  percentage  of  amortized  cost).
Additionally,  such  securities are  concentrated by  sector in  U.S. corporates
(33%)  and  mortgage-backed   (18%);  and  are   concentrated  by  industry   in
mortgage-backed  (14%),  utilities  (13%)  and  finance  (7%)  (calculated  as a
percentage of gross unrealized loss). Non-investment grade securities  represent
5%  of  the  $30,731  million fair  value  and  15% of  the  $677  million gross
unrealized loss.

                                        93
<PAGE>

     The category of fixed  maturity securities where  the estimated fair  value
has  declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six
months is comprised of 18 securities with an amortized cost of $67 million and a
gross unrealized  loss  of  $22  million  at  December  31,  2003.  These  fixed
maturities mature as follows: 1% due in greater than one year to five years; 64%
due  in greater than  five years to ten  years; and 35% due  in greater than ten
years (calculated  as  a  percentage  of  amortized  cost).  Additionally,  such
securities   are  concentrated  by  sector  in  foreign  governments  (41%)  and
asset-backed (35%); and are concentrated  by industry in asset-backed (35%)  and
finance  (23%)  (calculated  as a  percentage  of gross  unrealized  loss). Non-
investment grade securities represent 83% of the $45 million fair value and  82%
of the $22 million gross unrealized loss.

     The  total of fixed maturity securities  where the estimated fair value has
declined and remained  below amortized cost  by 20%  or more for  six months  or
greater is comprised of 24 securities with an amortized cost of $149 million and
a  gross  unrealized loss  of  $44 million  at  December 31,  2003.  These fixed
maturities mature as follows: 27% due in  greater than five years to ten  years;
and  73% due in greater than ten  years (calculated as a percentage of amortized
cost). Additionally, such securities are  concentrated by security type in  U.S.
corporates  (57%) and  asset-backed (18%); and  are concentrated  by industry in
transportation (53%),  finance (24%)  and asset-backed  (18%) (calculated  as  a
percentage  of gross unrealized loss). Non-investment grade securities represent
48% of the $105 million fair value  and 60% of the $44 million gross  unrealized
loss.

     The Company held two fixed maturity securities each with a gross unrealized
loss  at December  31, 2003  greater than $10  million. One  of these securities
represents 25%  of the  gross  unrealized loss  on  fixed maturities  where  the
estimated  fair value had declined  and remained below amortized  cost by 20% or
more for six months or  greater. The security is  in the U.S. corporate  sector,
and  the estimated fair value and gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2003 was
$14 million  and $11  million,  respectively. The  Company analyzed  this  fixed
maturity security as of December 31, 2003 to determine whether this security was
other-than-temporarily  impaired. The  Company believes that  the estimated fair
value of this security, which is  in the transportation industry, was  depressed
as  a result of generally difficult  economic and market conditions. The Company
believes that  the  analysis  of  the  security  indicated  that  the  financial
strength,  liquidity, leverage, future outlook  and/or recent management actions
supports the view that the  security was not other-than-temporarily impaired  as
of December 31, 2003.

     Corporate Fixed Maturities.  The table below shows the major industry types
that comprise the corporate bond holdings at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                   DECEMBER 31, 2003    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                                   ------------------   ------------------
                                                   ESTIMATED    % OF    ESTIMATED    % OF
                                                   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
                                                   ----------   -----   ----------   -----
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                <C>          <C>     <C>          <C>
Industrial.......................................   $34,474      40.9%   $29,077      42.5%
Utility..........................................     9,955      11.8      7,219      10.5
Finance..........................................    14,287      17.0     12,596      18.4
Yankee/Foreign(1)................................    23,842      28.3     19,229      28.1
Other............................................     1,675       2.0        365       0.5
                                                    -------     -----    -------     -----
     Total.......................................   $84,233     100.0%   $68,486     100.0%
                                                    =======     =====    =======     =====
</Table>

---------------

(1) Includes  publicly  traded,  U.S.  dollar-denominated  debt  obligations  of
    foreign obligors, known as Yankee bonds, and other foreign investments.

     The  Company  maintains  a  diversified  corporate  bond  portfolio  across
industries  and  issuers. The  portfolio does  not have  exposure to  any single
issuer in  excess of  1%  of the  total invested  assets  of the  portfolio.  At
December  31, 2003 and 2002, the Company's  combined holdings in the ten issuers
to which it had the greatest exposure totaled $4,683 million and $2,973 million,
respectively, which was  less than  3% and  2%, respectively,  of the  Company's
total invested assets at such date. The exposure to the largest single issuer of
corporate  bonds held at  December 31, 2003  and 2002 was  $618 million and $385
million, respectively.

                                        94
<PAGE>

     At December 31, 2003 and 2002,  investments of $16,572 million and  $14,778
million,  respectively, or 69.5% and  76.9%, respectively, of the Yankee/Foreign
sector, represented exposure to traditional Yankee bonds. This exposure was U.S.
dollar-denominated and  was  concentrated by  security  type in  industrial  and
financial  institutions. The Company diversifies the Yankee/Foreign portfolio by
country and issuer.

     The Company has  hedged all of  its material exposure  to foreign  currency
risk   in  its  invested  assets.   In  the  Company's  international  insurance
operations, both its assets and  liabilities are generally denominated in  local
currencies.  Foreign  currency  denominated  securities  supporting  U.S. dollar
liabilities are generally swapped back into U.S. dollars.

     Mortgage-Backed Securities.    The  following  table  shows  the  types  of
mortgage-backed securities the Company held at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                   DECEMBER 31, 2003    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                                   ------------------   ------------------
                                                   ESTIMATED    % OF    ESTIMATED    % OF
                                                   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
                                                   ----------   -----   ----------   -----
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                <C>          <C>     <C>          <C>
Pass-through securities..........................   $15,427      36.3%   $12,515      35.9%
Collateralized mortgage obligations..............    16,027      37.7     15,511      44.5
                                                    -------     -----    -------     -----
     Total mortgage-backed securities............    31,454      74.0     28,026      80.4
Commercial mortgage-backed securities............    11,031      26.0      6,857      19.6
                                                    -------     -----    -------     -----
     Total.......................................   $42,485     100.0%   $34,883     100.0%
                                                    =======     =====    =======     =====
</Table>

     At  December 31,  2003 and  2002, pass-through  and collateralized mortgage
obligations totaled $31,454 million and $28,026 million, respectively, or  74.0%
and  80.4%, respectively, of total mortgage-backed securities, and a majority of
these amounts represented agency-issued pass-through and collateralized mortgage
obligations guaranteed or otherwise supported  by the Federal National  Mortgage
Association,  the  Federal  Home  Loan Mortgage  Corporation  or  the Government
National Mortgage  Association. At  December 31,  2003 and  2002,  approximately
$6,992   million  and  $3,598   million,  respectively,  or   63.4%  and  52.5%,
respectively, of the commercial mortgage-backed securities, and $31,210  million
and  $27,590 million,  respectively, or  99.2% and  98.4%, respectively,  of the
pass-through securities  and  collateralized mortgage  obligations,  were  rated
Aaa/AAA by Moody's or S&P.

     The   principal  risks  inherent  in  holding  residential  mortgage-backed
securities are prepayment and extension risks,  which will affect the timing  of
when  cash will be received and are  dependent on the level of mortgage interest
rates.  Prepayment  risk  is  the  unexpected  increase  in  principal  payments
primarily  as a result  of homeowner refinancing. Extension  risk relates to the
unexpected slowdown in  principal payments. The  Company's active monitoring  of
its  residential mortgage-backed securities mitigates  exposure to the cash flow
uncertainties associated with these risks.

     The principal  risks in  owning commercial  mortgage-backed securities  are
related to structural, credit and capital market risks. Structural risks include
the  security's priority in  the issuer's capital structure  and the adequacy of
and ability  to realize  proceeds from  the underlying  real estate  collateral.
Credit  risk  results  from  potential  defaults  on  the  underlying commercial
mortgages. Capital market risks include the general level of interest rates  and
the liquidity for these securities in the marketplace.

     Asset-Backed  Securities.    Asset-backed  securities,  which  include home
equity loans,  credit  card  receivables, collateralized  debt  obligations  and
automobile receivables, are purchased both to diversify the overall risks of the
Company's   fixed  maturity  assets   and  to  provide   income.  The  Company's
asset-backed securities are  diversified both  by sector and  by issuer.  Credit
card  and home equity loan securitizations, each accounting for about 29% of the
total holdings, constitute the largest  exposures in the Company's  asset-backed
securities portfolio. Asset-backed securities generally have limited sensitivity
to  changes in interest rates. Approximately  $7,528 million and $4,912 million,
or 63.5%  and 51.7%,  of total  asset-backed securities  were rated  Aaa/AAA  by
Moody's or S&P at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

                                        95
<PAGE>

     The  principal  risks in  holding  asset-backed securities  are  related to
structural, credit  and  capital  market risks.  Structural  risks  include  the
security's  priority  in the  issuer's capital  structure,  the adequacy  of and
ability  to  realize  proceeds  from  the  collateral  and  the  potential   for
prepayments.  Credit risks include consumer or corporate credits, such as credit
card holders, equipment  lessees, and corporate  obligors. Capital market  risks
include  the  general  level  of  interest rates  and  the  liquidity  for these
securities in the marketplace.

     Structured Investment Transactions.  The Company participates in structured
investment transactions, primarily asset  securitizations and structured  notes.
These  transactions  enhance  the  Company's  total  return  of  the  investment
portfolio  principally   by   generating   management  fee   income   on   asset
securitizations and by providing equity-based returns on debt securities through
structured notes and similar instruments.

     The  Company sponsors  financial asset  securitizations of  high yield debt
securities, investment grade bonds and structured finance securities and also is
the collateral manager and a beneficial interest holder in such transactions. As
the collateral manager,  the Company  earns management fees  on the  outstanding
securitized  asset balance,  which are  recorded in  income as  earned. When the
Company transfers assets to a bankruptcy-remote SPE and surrenders control  over
the  transferred assets, the  transaction is accounted  for as a  sale. Gains or
losses on securitizations are determined  with reference to the carrying  amount
of  the financial assets transferred, which is  allocated to the assets sold and
the beneficial interests retained based on  relative fair values at the date  of
transfer.  Beneficial interests in securitizations are  carried at fair value in
fixed maturities. Income on these  beneficial interests is recognized using  the
prospective  method  in accordance  with EITF  Issue  No. 99-20,  Recognition of
Interest Income and Impairment on  Certain Investments ("EITF 99-20"). The  SPEs
used  to  securitize assets  are  not consolidated  by  the Company  because the
Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these  entities
based  on the framework provided in FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December
31, 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, An Interpretation of ARB
No. 51 ("FIN 46(r)").  Prior to the  adoption of FIN 46(r),  such SPEs were  not
consolidated  because they  did not  meet the  criteria for  consolidation under
previous accounting guidance.

     The Company  purchases  or receives  beneficial  interests in  SPEs,  which
generally   acquire  financial   assets,  including   corporate  equities,  debt
securities  and  purchased   options.  The  Company   has  not  guaranteed   the
performance,  liquidity or obligations of the SPEs and the Company's exposure to
loss is limited to its carrying value  of the beneficial interests in the  SPEs.
The  Company  uses  the beneficial  interests  as  part of  its  risk management
strategy, including asset-liability management. These SPEs are not  consolidated
by  the Company because  the Company has  determined that it  is not the primary
beneficiary of these  entities based  on the  framework provided  in FIN  46(r).
Prior to the adoption of FIN 46(r), such SPEs were not consolidated because they
did  not meet the criteria for consolidation under previous accounting guidance.
These beneficial interests are  generally structured notes,  as defined by  EITF
Issue No. 96-12, Recognition of Interest Income and Balance Sheet Classification
of Structured Notes, which are included in fixed maturities, and their income is
recognized using the retrospective interest method or the level yield method, as
appropriate.  Impairments  of these  beneficial  interests are  included  in net
investment gains and losses.

 MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE

     The  Company's  mortgage  loans  on  real  estate  are  collateralized   by
commercial,  agricultural  and residential  properties.  Mortgage loans  on real
estate comprised 11.8% and 13.2% of the Company's total cash and invested assets
at December 31,  2003 and  2002, respectively.  The carrying  value of  mortgage
loans  on real estate is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization
of premiums, accretion of discounts and

                                        96
<PAGE>

valuation allowances.  The  following table  shows  the carrying  value  of  the
Company's mortgage loans on real estate by type at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     DECEMBER 31, 2003    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                                     ------------------   ------------------
                                                     CARRYING     % OF    CARRYING     % OF
                                                       VALUE     TOTAL      VALUE     TOTAL
                                                     ---------   ------   ---------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                  <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>
Commercial.........................................   $20,300     77.3%    $19,552     78.0%
Agricultural.......................................     5,327     20.3       5,146     20.5
Residential........................................       622      2.4         388      1.5
                                                      -------    -----     -------    -----
     Total.........................................   $26,249    100.0%    $25,086    100.0%
                                                      =======    =====     =======    =====
</Table>

     Commercial Mortgage Loans.  The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage
loans by both geographic region and property type, and manages these investments
through a network of regional offices overseen by its investment department. The
following table presents the distribution across geographic regions and property
types for commercial mortgage loans at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     DECEMBER 31, 2003    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                                     ------------------   ------------------
                                                     CARRYING     % OF    CARRYING     % OF
                                                       VALUE     TOTAL      VALUE     TOTAL
                                                     ---------   ------   ---------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                  <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>
REGION
South Atlantic.....................................   $ 4,978     24.5%    $ 5,076     26.0%
Pacific............................................     5,005     24.7       4,180     21.4
Middle Atlantic....................................     3,455     17.0       3,441     17.6
East North Central.................................     1,821      9.0       2,147     11.0
West South Central.................................     1,370      6.8       1,097      5.6
New England........................................     1,278      6.3       1,323      6.8
International......................................       836      4.1         632      3.2
Mountain...........................................       740      3.6         833      4.2
West North Central.................................       619      3.0         645      3.3
East South Central.................................       198      1.0         178      0.9
                                                      -------    -----     -------    -----
     Total.........................................   $20,300    100.0%    $19,552    100.0%
                                                      =======    =====     =======    =====
PROPERTY TYPE
Office.............................................   $ 9,170     45.2%    $ 9,340     47.8%
Retail.............................................     5,006     24.7       4,320     22.1
Apartments.........................................     2,832     13.9       2,793     14.3
Industrial.........................................     1,911      9.4       1,910      9.7
Hotel..............................................     1,032      5.1         942      4.8
Other..............................................       349      1.7         247      1.3
                                                      -------    -----     -------    -----
     Total.........................................   $20,300    100.0%    $19,552    100.0%
                                                      =======    =====     =======    =====
</Table>

                                        97
<PAGE>

     The  following table  presents the  scheduled maturities  for the Company's
commercial mortgage loans at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     DECEMBER 31, 2003    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                                     ------------------   ------------------
                                                     CARRYING     % OF    CARRYING     % OF
                                                       VALUE     TOTAL      VALUE     TOTAL
                                                     ---------   ------   ---------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                  <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>
Due in one year or less............................   $   708      3.5%    $   713      3.6%
Due after one year through two years...............     1,065      5.2       1,204      6.2
Due after two years through three years............     2,020     10.0       1,939      9.9
Due after three years through four years...........     2,362     11.6       2,048     10.5
Due after four years through five years............     3,157     15.6       2,443     12.5
Due after five years...............................    10,988     54.1      11,205     57.3
                                                      -------    -----     -------    -----
     Total.........................................   $20,300    100.0%    $19,552    100.0%
                                                      =======    =====     =======    =====
</Table>

     Potential Problem, Problem  and Restructured Mortgage  Loans.  The  Company
monitors  its  mortgage  loan  investments on  an  ongoing  basis.  Through this
monitoring process, the Company reviews loans that are restructured,  delinquent
or  under  foreclosure  and identifies  those  that management  considers  to be
potentially delinquent.  These loan  classifications are  consistent with  those
used in industry practice.

     The  Company  defines  potentially  delinquent  loans  as  loans  that,  in
management's opinion,  have  a  high probability  of  becoming  delinquent.  The
Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with industry practice, as
loans  in which  two or more  interest or  principal payments are  past due. The
Company defines mortgage loans under  foreclosure as loans in which  foreclosure
proceedings  have formally commenced. The  Company defines restructured mortgage
loans as loans in which  the Company, for economic  or legal reasons related  to
the  debtor's financial difficulties, grants a  concession to the debtor that it
would not otherwise consider.

     The Company reviews all mortgage loans  on an ongoing basis. These  reviews
may  include an  analysis of  the property  financial statements  and rent roll,
lease rollover  analysis,  property  inspections,  market  analysis  and  tenant
creditworthiness.  The  Company  also  reviews  loan-to-value  ratios  and  debt
coverage  ratios  for   restructured  loans,  delinquent   loans,  loans   under
foreclosure,  potentially  delinquent loans,  loans  with an  existing valuation
allowance, loans maturing within two years and loans with a loan-to-value  ratio
greater than 90% as determined in the prior year.

     The  principal  risks in  holding  commercial mortgage  loans  are property
specific, supply  and  demand,  financial and  capital  market  risks.  Property
specific  risks include  the geographic location  of the  property, the physical
condition of the property,  the diversification of tenants  and the rollover  of
their  leases and  the ability  of the property  manager to  attract tenants and
manage expenses. Supply and  demand risks include changes  in the supply  and/or
demand  for rental  space, which  cause changes  in vacancy  rates and/or rental
rates. Financial risks include the overall level of debt on the property and the
amount of principal repaid  during the loan term.  Capital market risks  include
the  general level of interest rates, the  liquidity for these securities in the
marketplace and the capital available for loan refinancing.

     The Company  establishes  valuation  allowances for  loans  that  it  deems
impaired,  as  determined through  its  mortgage review  process.  The Company's
valuation allowance is established both on a loan specific basis for those loans
where a property or market specific  risk has been identified that could  likely
result in a future default, as well as for pools of loans with similar high risk
characteristics   where  a  property  specific  or  market  risk  has  not  been
identified. Loans  that are  individually reviewed  are evaluated  based on  the
definition  of  impaired  loans  consistent with  SFAS  No.  114,  Accounting by
Creditors for Impairments of a Loan ("SFAS 114"), as loans on which it  probably
will  not collect all  amounts due according to  applicable contractual terms of
the agreement. The Company bases valuation allowances upon the present value  of
expected  future cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest
rate or  the value  of  the loan's  collateral.  The Company  records  valuation
allowances  as investment losses. The  Company records subsequent adjustments to
allowances as investment gains or losses. The allowance for loan loss for  pools
of  other loans with  similar characteristics is  established in accordance with
SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies
                                        98
<PAGE>

("SFAS 5"), when a loss contingency  exists. A loss contingency exists when  the
likelihood that a future event will occur is probable based on past events. SFAS
5  works in conjunction with,  but does not overlap  with, SFAS 114. The Company
applies SFAS 5 to groups of loans with similar characteristics based on property
types and loan  to value risk  factors. The Company  records adjustments to  its
loan loss allowance as investment losses.

     The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation allowance for
commercial mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  DECEMBER 31, 2003                           DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                      -----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------
                                                                        % OF                                        % OF
                                      AMORTIZED   % OF    VALUATION   AMORTIZED   AMORTIZED   % OF    VALUATION   AMORTIZED
                                       COST(1)    TOTAL   ALLOWANCE     COST       COST(1)    TOTAL   ALLOWANCE     COST
                                      ---------   -----   ---------   ---------   ---------   -----   ---------   ---------
                                                                      (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                   <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>
Performing..........................   $20,315     99.5%    $ 95         0.5%      $19,343     98.3%    $ 60         0.3%
Restructured........................        77      0.4       23        29.9%          246      1.3       49        19.9%
Delinquent or under foreclosure.....        --      0.0       --         0.0%           14      0.1       --         0.0%
Potentially delinquent..............        30      0.1        4        13.3%           68      0.3       10        14.7%
                                       -------    -----     ----                   -------    -----     ----
    Total...........................   $20,422    100.0%    $122         0.6%      $19,671    100.0%    $119         0.6%
                                       =======    =====     ====                   =======    =====     ====
</Table>

---------------

(1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances.

     The  following  table  presents  the changes  in  valuation  allowances for
commercial mortgage loans for the:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------
                                                               2003     2002     2001
                                                              ------   ------   ------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance, beginning of year..................................   $119     $134     $ 76
Additions...................................................     51       38       84
Deductions..................................................    (48)     (53)     (26)
                                                               ----     ----     ----
Balance, end of year........................................   $122     $119     $134
                                                               ====     ====     ====
</Table>

     Agricultural Mortgage  Loans.   The  Company diversifies  its  agricultural
mortgage  loans by both geographic region  and product type. The Company manages
these investments through a network of regional offices and field  professionals
overseen by its investment department.

     Approximately  67%  of the  $5,327 million  of agricultural  mortgage loans
outstanding at December 31, 2003 were subject to rate resets prior to  maturity.
A  substantial portion of these loans generally is successfully renegotiated and
remains outstanding to  maturity. The  process and policies  for monitoring  the
agricultural  mortgage  loans and  classifying  them by  performance  status are
generally the same as those for the commercial loans.

                                        99
<PAGE>

     The  following table presents  the amortized cost  and valuation allowances
for agricultural mortgage loans distributed by loan classification at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  DECEMBER 31, 2003                           DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                      -----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------
                                                                        % OF                                        % OF
                                      AMORTIZED   % OF    VALUATION   AMORTIZED   AMORTIZED   % OF    VALUATION   AMORTIZED
                                       COST(1)    TOTAL   ALLOWANCE     COST       COST(1)    TOTAL   ALLOWANCE     COST
                                      ---------   -----   ---------   ---------   ---------   -----   ---------   ---------
                                                                      (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                   <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>
Performing..........................   $5,162      96.7%    $   -        0.0%      $4,980      96.7%     $-          0.0%
Restructured........................      111       2.1         1        0.9%         140       2.7       5          3.6%
Delinquent or under foreclosure.....       36       0.7         2        5.6%          14       0.3       -          0.0%
Potentially delinquent..............       24       0.5         3       12.5%          18       0.3       1          5.6%
                                       ------     -----     -----                  ------     -----      --
    Total...........................   $5,333     100.0%    $   6        0.1%      $5,152     100.0%     $6          0.1%
                                       ======     =====     =====                  ======     =====      ==
</Table>

---------------

(1) Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation allowances.

     The following  table  presents  the changes  in  valuation  allowances  for
agricultural mortgage loans for the:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------
                                                               2003     2002     2001
                                                              ------   ------   ------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance, beginning of year..................................   $ 6      $ 9      $  7
Additions...................................................     1        3        21
Deductions..................................................    (1)      (6)      (19)
                                                               ---      ---      ----
Balance, end of year........................................   $ 6      $ 6      $  9
                                                               ===      ===      ====
</Table>

     The  principal risks  in holding  agricultural mortgage  loans are property
specific, supply  and  demand,  financial and  capital  market  risks.  Property
specific  risks include  the geographic  location of  the property,  soil types,
weather conditions  and  the  other  factors  that  may  impact  the  borrower's
guaranty.  Supply  and  demand  risks  include the  supply  and  demand  for the
commodities produced on the  specific property and the  related price for  those
commodities.  Financial risks include the overall  level of debt on the property
and the amount of  principal repaid during the  loan term. Capital market  risks
include  the general level of interest rates, the liquidity for these securities
in the marketplace and the capital available for loan refinancing.

  REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES

     The Company's real estate and real estate joint venture investments consist
of  commercial,  residential  and  agricultural  properties  located   primarily
throughout  the U.S. The Company manages  these investments through a network of
regional offices overseen by its investment department. At December 31, 2003 and
2002, the  carrying  value of  the  Company's  real estate,  real  estate  joint
ventures  and real estate  held-for-sale was $4,803  million and $4,725 million,
respectively, or 2.2%, and 2.5% of total cash and invested assets, respectively.
The carrying  value  of  real  estate  is stated  at  depreciated  cost  net  of
impairments  and valuation allowances.  The carrying value  of real estate joint
ventures is stated at the Company's equity in the real estate joint ventures net
of impairments  and  valuation  allowances. The  following  table  presents  the
carrying value of

                                       100
<PAGE>

the Company's real estate, real estate joint ventures, real estate held-for-sale
and real estate acquired upon foreclosure at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      DECEMBER 31, 2003    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                                      ------------------   ------------------
                                                      CARRYING     % OF    CARRYING     % OF
TYPE                                                    VALUE     TOTAL      VALUE     TOTAL
----                                                  ---------   ------   ---------   ------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>
Real estate held-for-investment.....................   $4,274      89.0%    $3,546      75.0%
Real estate joint ventures held-for-investment......      438       9.1        377       8.0
Foreclosed real estate held-for-investment..........        2       0.1          3       0.1
                                                       ------     -----     ------     -----
                                                        4,714      98.2      3,926      83.1
                                                       ------     -----     ------     -----
Real estate held-for-sale...........................       88       1.8        792      16.8
Foreclosed real estate held-for-sale................        1       0.0          7       0.1
                                                       ------     -----     ------     -----
                                                           89       1.8        799      16.9
                                                       ------     -----     ------     -----
Total real estate, real estate joint ventures and
  real estate held-for-sale.........................   $4,803     100.0%    $4,725     100.0%
                                                       ======     =====     ======     =====
</Table>

     Office properties  represent  58%  of  the  Company's  equity  real  estate
portfolio  at both December  31, 2003 and  2002. The average  occupancy level of
office properties was 89% and 92% at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     Ongoing management of these  investments includes quarterly valuations,  as
well  as an annual market update and review of each property's budget, financial
returns, lease rollover status and the Company's exit strategy.

     The Company adjusts the carrying value of real estate and real estate joint
ventures held-for-investment  for  impairments  whenever events  or  changes  in
circumstances  indicate  that the  carrying  value of  the  property may  not be
recoverable. The  Company writes  down impaired  real estate  to estimated  fair
value,  when  the carrying  value  of the  real estate  exceeds  the sum  of the
undiscounted cash flow expected to result from the use and eventual  disposition
of  the real  estate. The  Company records  writedowns as  investment losses and
reduces the  cost basis  of the  properties accordingly.  The Company  does  not
change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.

     The  Company's real estate equity portfolio at December 31, 2003 was mainly
comprised of  a core  portfolio  of multi-tenanted  office buildings  with  high
tenant credit quality, net leased properties and apartments. The objective is to
maximize  earnings by building upon and strengthening the core portfolio through
selective acquisitions  and  dispositions.  The  Company  took  advantage  of  a
significant  demand for Class A, institutional grade properties and sold certain
real estate holdings in its portfolio mostly during the fourth quarter of  2002.
This  sales program  did not represent  any fundamental change  in the Company's
investment strategy.

     Once the Company identifies a property  that is expected to be sold  within
one  year and commences  a firm plan  for marketing the  property, in accordance
with  SFAS  144,  the  Company,  if  applicable,  classifies  the  property   as
held-for-sale  and reports the  related net investment  income and any resulting
investment gains and  losses as  discontinued operations.  Further, the  Company
establishes  and periodically  revises, if  necessary, a  valuation allowance to
adjust the carrying  value of  the property to  its expected  sales value,  less
associated selling costs, if it is lower than the property's carrying value. The
Company  records  valuation  allowances  as  investment  losses  and  subsequent
adjustments as  investment gains  or losses.  If circumstances  arise that  were
previously  considered unlikely and, as a result, the property is expected to be
on the market  longer than  anticipated, a held-for-sale  property is  generally
reclassified to held-for-investment and measured as such.

     The  Company's carrying value of  real estate held-for-sale, including real
estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage  loans,
in  the amounts of $89  million and $799 million at  December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively, are net of  valuation allowances of $12  million and $11  million,

                                       101
<PAGE>

respectively.  There  were no  impairments at  December  31, 2003;  however, the
December 31, 2002 amount included a net impairment of $5 million.

     The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and
agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying
value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure.

     Certain of the Company's investments in real estate joint ventures meet the
definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See "-- Variable Interest Entities."

     On August 28, 2003, the Company (through one of its subsidiaries)  acquired
the  Sears Tower building through the acquisition of a controlling interest in a
partnership holding  title to  the building.  Subsequent to  December 31,  2003,
MetLife  entered  into a  marketing agreement  to  sell one  of its  real estate
investments,  the  Sears  Tower,  and   reclassified  the  property  from   Real
Estate  -- Held-for  Investments to Real  Estate -- Held-for  Sale. The carrying
value of the property as of December 31, 2003 is approximately $700 million.

  EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS

     The Company's carrying value of equity securities, which primarily  consist
of  investments in  common and preferred  stocks and mutual  fund interests, was
$1,598 million and $1,613 million at  December 31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.
Substantially  all of  the common stock  is publicly traded  on major securities
exchanges. The carrying value of the other limited partnership interests  (which
primarily  represent ownership  interests in  pooled investment  funds that make
private equity investments  in companies in  the U.S. and  overseas) was  $2,477
million  and $2,395  million at  December 31,  2003 and  2002, respectively. The
Company classifies its  investments in common  stocks as available-for-sale  and
marks  them to  market, except  for non-marketable  private equities,  which are
generally carried at cost. The Company uses the equity method of accounting  for
investments  in limited partnership interests in which  it has more than a minor
interest, has influence over the partnership's operating and financial  policies
and  does not have a controlling interest.  The Company uses the cost method for
minor interest  investments and  when it  has virtually  no influence  over  the
partnership's  operating and  financial policies.  The Company's  investments in
equity securities excluding partnerships represented  0.7% and 0.8% of cash  and
invested assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     Equity  securities include private equity securities with an estimated fair
value of  $432  million  and  $443  million  at  December  31,  2003  and  2002,
respectively.  The Company  may not freely  trade its  private equity securities
because of  restrictions  imposed  by  federal and  state  securities  laws  and
illiquid markets.

     The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal
course  of  business.  The amounts  of  these unfunded  commitments  were $1,380
million and $1,667  million at  December 31,  2003 and  2002, respectively.  The
Company  anticipates that these amounts could  be invested in these partnerships
any time over the next five years.

     Some of the  Company's investments in  other limited partnership  interests
meet  the  definition of  a  VIE under  FIN 46(r).  See  " --  Variable Interest
Entities."

                                       102
<PAGE>

     The  following tables set forth the cost, gross unrealized gain or loss and
estimated fair  value  of  the  Company's equity  securities,  as  well  as  the
percentage of the total equity securities at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                               -----------------------------------------
                                                           GROSS
                                                        UNREALIZED
                                                        -----------   ESTIMATED    % OF
                                                COST    GAIN   LOSS   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
                                               ------   ----   ----   ----------   -----
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                            <C>      <C>    <C>    <C>          <C>
Equity Securities:
  Common stocks..............................  $  620   $334    $2      $  952      59.6%
  Nonredeemable preferred stocks.............     602     48     4         646      40.4
                                               ------   ----    --      ------     -----
     Total equity securities.................  $1,222   $382    $6      $1,598     100.0%
                                               ======   ====    ==      ======     =====
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                               -----------------------------------------
                                                           GROSS
                                                        UNREALIZED
                                                        -----------   ESTIMATED    % OF
                                                COST    GAIN   LOSS   FAIR VALUE   TOTAL
                                               ------   ----   ----   ----------   -----
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                            <C>      <C>    <C>    <C>          <C>
Equity Securities:
  Common stocks..............................  $  877   $115   $79      $  913      56.6%
  Nonredeemable preferred stocks.............     679     25     4         700      43.4
                                               ------   ----   ---      ------     -----
     Total equity securities.................  $1,556   $140   $83      $1,613     100.0%
                                               ======   ====   ===      ======     =====
</Table>

     Potential   Problem  and  Problem  Equity   Securities  and  Other  Limited
Partnership Interests.   The Company  monitors its equity  securities and  other
limited  partnership  interests on  a continual  basis. Through  this monitoring
process, the  Company identifies  investments that  management considers  to  be
problems or potential problems.

     Potential problem equity securities and other limited partnership interests
are  defined as securities issued by  a company that is experiencing significant
operating  problems  or  difficult   industry  conditions.  Criteria   generally
indicative  of these  problems or  conditions are  (i) cash  flows falling below
varying thresholds established for the industry and other relevant factors; (ii)
significant declines in revenues and/or margins; (iii) public securities trading
at a substantial  discount compared  to original cost  as a  result of  specific
credit concerns; and (iv) other information that becomes available.

     Problem  equity  securities  and other  limited  partnership  interests are
defined as  securities (i)  in  which significant  declines in  revenues  and/or
margins  threaten the ability of the issuer to continue operating; or (ii) where
the issuer has entered into bankruptcy.

     Equity Security  Impairment.   The  Company classifies  all of  its  equity
securities  as  available-for-sale  and  marks  them  to  market  through  other
comprehensive income.  All  securities  with  gross  unrealized  losses  at  the
consolidated  balance  sheet date  are subjected  to  the Company's  process for
identifying other-than-temporary impairments.  The Company writes  down to  fair
value  securities that  it deems  to be  other-than-temporarily impaired  in the
period the securities are  deemed to be so  impaired. The assessment of  whether
such impairment has occurred is based on management's case-by-case evaluation of
the  underlying reasons  for the decline  in fair value.  Management considers a
wide range of factors,  as described below, about  the security issuer and  uses
its  best judgment in evaluating the cause  of the decline in the estimated fair
value of the  security and in  assessing the prospects  for near-term  recovery.
Inherent  in  management's  evaluation  of  the  security  are  assumptions  and
estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential.

                                       103
<PAGE>

     Considerations used by  the Company  in the  impairment evaluation  process
include, but are not limited to, the following:

     - length  of time and the  extent to which the  market value has been below
       cost;

     - potential for impairments of securities  when the issuer is  experiencing
       significant  financial difficulties, including a review of all securities
       of  the  issuer,  including   its  known  subsidiaries  and   affiliates,
       regardless of the form of the Company's ownership;

     - potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector;

     - potential  for impairments  in certain  economically depressed geographic
       locations;

     - potential for  impairments  of securities  where  the issuer,  series  of
       issuers  or  industry has  suffered a  catastrophic type  of loss  or has
       exhausted natural resources; and

     - other  subjective  factors,  including  concentrations  and   information
       obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

     Equity  securities or other limited  partnership interests which are deemed
to be  other-than-temporarily  impaired are  written  down to  fair  value.  The
Company  records writedowns as  investment losses and adjusts  the cost basis of
the equity securities accordingly. The Company does not change the revised  cost
basis  for subsequent recoveries  in value. Writedowns  of equity securities and
other limited partnership  interests were  $108 million and  $191 million  years
ended  December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. During the years ended December
31, 2003 and  2002, the Company  sold equity securities  with an estimated  fair
value of $62 million and $915 million, at a loss of $13 million and $85 million,
respectively.

     The  gross unrealized  loss related to  the Company's  equity securities at
December 31, 2003 was $6 million.  Such securities are concentrated by  security
type  in common stock (36%)  and preferred stock (63%);  and are concentrated by
industry in  financial  (57%)  and  domestic  broad  market  mutual  funds  (7%)
(calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss).

     The  following table presents the cost,  gross unrealized losses and number
of securities for equity securities where the estimated fair value had  declined
and remained below cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more for:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                  ------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        GROSS UNREALIZED        NUMBER OF
                                         COST                LOSSES             SECURITIES
                                  ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
                                  LESS THAN   20% OR   LESS THAN   20% OR   LESS THAN   20% OR
                                     20%       MORE       20%       MORE       20%       MORE
                                  ---------   ------   ---------   ------   ---------   ------
                                                     (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                               <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>
Less than six months............     $58        $1        $6        $--        19           1
Six months or greater but less
  than nine months..............      --        --        --         --        --          --
Nine months or greater but less
  than twelve months............      --        --        --         --        --           2
Twelve months or greater........      22        --        --         --        14          --
                                     ---        --        --        ---        --        ----
  Total.........................     $80        $1        $6        $--        33           3
                                     ===        ==        ==        ===        ==        ====
</Table>

     The  Company's review of its equity security exposure includes the analysis
of total  gross  unrealized  losses  by  three  categories  of  securities:  (i)
securities  where the estimated fair value  had declined and remained below cost
by less than 20%;  (ii) securities where the  estimated fair value had  declined
and  remained below  cost by  20% or more  for less  than six  months; and (iii)
securities where the estimated fair value  had declined and remained below  cost
by  20% or  more for six  months or greater.  While all of  these securities are
monitored for potential impairment, the Company's experience indicates that  the
first  two categories do not  present as great a  risk of impairment, and often,
fair values recover over time as the factors that caused the declines improve.

                                       104
<PAGE>

     The following table presents the  total gross unrealized losses for  equity
securities  at December 31, 2003 where the estimated fair value had declined and
remained below cost by:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                                              ------------------------
                                                              GROSS UNREALIZED   % OF
                                                                   LOSSES        TOTAL
                                                              ----------------   -----
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>                <C>
Less than 20%...............................................         $6          $ 100%
20% or more for less than six months........................         --             --
20% or more for six months or greater.......................         --             --
                                                                     --          -----
Total.......................................................         $6          100.0%
                                                                     ==          =====
</Table>

     The category  of  equity securities  where  the estimated  fair  value  has
declined  and remained  below cost by  less than  20% is comprised  of 33 equity
securities with a cost of $80 million and a gross unrealized loss of $6 million.
These securities are  concentrated by security  type in common  stock (33%)  and
preferred  stock  (65%); and  concentrated by  industry  in financial  (59%) and
communications (3%) (calculated as a  percentage of gross unrealized loss).  The
significant  factors considered  at December  31, 2003  in the  review of equity
securities for other-than-temporary  impairment were  as a  result of  generally
difficult economic and market conditions.

     The Company did not hold any equity securities with a gross unrealized loss
at December 31, 2003 greater than $5 million.

OTHER INVESTED ASSETS

     The Company's other invested assets consist principally of leveraged leases
and  funds withheld at interest of $3.9 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31,
2003  and  2002,  respectively.  The  leveraged  leases  are  recorded  net   of
non-recourse  debt. The  Company participates  in lease  transactions, which are
diversified by industry, asset type  and geographic area. The Company  regularly
reviews  residual values and writes down residuals to expected values as needed.
Funds withheld represent amounts contractually  withheld by ceding companies  in
accordance  with reinsurance  agreements. For  agreements written  on a modified
coinsurance basis and certain agreements written on a coinsurance basis,  assets
supporting  the  reinsured  policies equal  to  the net  statutory  reserves are
withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding company. Other  invested
assets  also include  the fair  value of  embedded derivatives  related to funds
withheld and modified  coinsurance contracts.  Interest accrues  to these  funds
withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms and may be contractually specified
or  directly related to  the investment portfolio.  The Company's other invested
assets represented 2.1%  and 1.9% of  cash and invested  assets at December  31,
2003 and 2002, respectively.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The  Company uses derivative instruments to manage risk through one of five
principal risk  management  strategies: the  hedging  of (i)  liabilities;  (ii)
invested  assets; (iii) portfolios of assets or liabilities; (iv) net investment
in  certain  foreign  operations;  and  (v)  firm  commitments  and   forecasted
transactions.  Additionally,  the  Company  enters  into  income  generation and
replication derivative transactions as permitted by its insurance  subsidiaries'
Derivatives  Use Plans approved  by the applicable  state insurance departments.
The Company's  derivative hedging  strategy employs  a variety  of  instruments,
including  financial futures, financial forwards,  interest rate, credit default
and foreign currency  swaps, foreign  currency forwards  and options,  including
caps and floors.

                                       105
<PAGE>

     The table below provides a summary of the notional amount and fair value of
derivative financial instruments held at December 31, 2003 and 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      2003                              2002
                                         -------------------------------   -------------------------------
                                                       CURRENT MARKET                    CURRENT MARKET
                                                       OR FAIR VALUE                     OR FAIR VALUE
                                         NOTIONAL   --------------------   NOTIONAL   --------------------
                                          AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES    AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES
                                         --------   ------   -----------   --------   ------   -----------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                      <C>        <C>      <C>           <C>        <C>      <C>
Financial futures......................  $ 1,348     $  8       $ 30       $     4     $ --       $ --
Interest rate swaps....................    9,944      189         36         3,866      196        126
Floors.................................      325        5         --           325        9         --
Caps...................................    9,345       29         --         8,040       --         --
Financial forwards.....................    1,310        2          3         1,945       --         12
Foreign currency swaps.................    4,710        9        796         2,371       92        181
Options................................    6,065        7         --         6,472        9         --
Foreign currency forwards..............      695        5         32            54       --          1
Credit default swaps...................      615        2          1           376        2         --
                                         -------     ----       ----       -------     ----       ----
  Total contractual commitments........  $34,357     $256       $898       $23,453     $308       $320
                                         =======     ====       ====       =======     ====       ====
</Table>

  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

     The  Company  has adopted  the  provisions of  FIN  46 and  FIN  46(r). See
"-- Recent  Accounting Standards."  At  December 31,  2003,  FIN 46(r)  did  not
require  the Company to consolidate any additional VIEs that were not previously
consolidated.

     The following table presents  the total assets of  and maximum exposure  to
loss  relating to VIEs  for which the Company  has concluded that  (i) it is the
primary beneficiary and which  will be consolidated  in the Company's  financial
statements  beginning March  31, 2004,  and (ii)  it holds  significant valuable
interests but  it  is  not  the  primary  beneficiary  and  which  will  not  be
consolidated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                              -------------------------------------------------
                                              PRIMARY BENEFICIARY(1)   NOT PRIMARY BENEFICIARY
                                              ----------------------   ------------------------
                                                           MAXIMUM                    MAXIMUM
                                                TOTAL      EXPOSURE      TOTAL       EXPOSURE
                                              ASSETS(2)   TO LOSS(3)   ASSETS(2)    TO LOSS(3)
                                              ---------   ----------   ----------   -----------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                           <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
SPES:
Asset-backed securitizations and
  Collateralized debt obligations...........    $ --         $ --        $2,400         $20
NON-SPES:
Real estate joint ventures(4)...............     617          238            42          59
Other limited partnerships(5)...............      29           27           459          10
                                                ----         ----        ------         ---
     Total..................................    $646         $265        $2,901         $89
                                                ====         ====        ======         ===
</Table>

---------------

 (1) Had  the  Company  consolidated  these  VIEs  at  December  31,  2003,  the
     transition adjustments would have been $10 million, net of income tax.

 (2) The assets  of the  asset-backed  securitizations and  collateralized  debt
     obligations are reflected at fair value as of December 31, 2003. The assets
     of  the  real  estate joint  ventures  and other  limited  partnerships are
     reflected at the  carrying amounts  at which  such assets  would have  been
     reflected  on the Company's balance sheet  had the Company consolidated the
     VIE from the date of its initial investment in the entity.

                                       106
<PAGE>

 (3) The maximum  exposure  to  loss of  the  asset-backed  securitizations  and
     collateralized  debt  obligations  is  equal  to  the  carrying  amounts of
     retained interests. In addition, the Company provides collateral management
     services for certain of these structures for which it collects a management
     fee. The maximum exposure  to loss relating to  real estate joint  ventures
     and  other limited partnerships  is equal to the  carrying amounts plus any
     unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other partners.

 (4) Real estate joint ventures include  partnerships and other ventures,  which
     engage  in the  acquisition, development,  management and  disposal of real
     estate investments.

 (5) Other limited partnerships include partnerships established for the purpose
     of investing in public and private  debt and equity securities, as well  as
     limited partnerships established for the purpose of investing in low-income
     housing that qualifies for federal tax credits.

  SECURITIES LENDING

     The  Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
securities, which  are included  in investments,  are loaned  to third  parties,
primarily  major brokerage firms. The Company requires  a minimum of 102% of the
fair value of the  loaned securities to be  separately maintained as  collateral
for  the loans. Securities with a cost  or amortized cost of $25,121 million and
$16,196 million  and an  estimated fair  value of  $26,387 million  and  $17,625
million  were  on  loan  under  the  program  at  December  31,  2003  and 2002,
respectively. The Company was  liable for cash collateral  under its control  of
$27,083 million and $17,862 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Security  collateral on deposit from customers may  not be sold or repledged and
is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements.

  SEPARATE ACCOUNT ASSETS

     The Company manages each separate  account's assets in accordance with  the
prescribed investment policy that applies to that specific separate account. The
Company  establishes  separate  accounts  on a  single  client  and multi-client
commingled basis in conformity with insurance laws. Generally, separate accounts
are not chargeable with  liabilities that arise from  any other business of  the
Company.  Separate account assets  are subject to  the Company's general account
claims only to the  extent that the  value of such  assets exceeds the  separate
account  liabilities, as defined by the  account's contract. The Company reports
separately as assets and liabilities  investments held in separate accounts  and
liabilities  of  the separate  accounts. The  Company reports  substantially all
separate account assets at their fair market value. Investment income and  gains
or   losses  on  the  investments  of   separate  accounts  accrue  directly  to
contractholders, and,  accordingly, the  Company does  not reflect  them in  its
consolidated  statements of income  and cash flows. The  Company reflects in its
revenues fees  charged  to  the  separate accounts  by  the  Company,  including
mortality   charges,  risk  charges,   policy  administration  fees,  investment
management fees and surrender charges. Effective January 1, 2004, in  accordance
with  new accounting guidance, approximately  $1,678 million of separate account
assets will  be transferred  to  investments with  a corresponding  transfer  of
separate  account liabilities to future policy benefits and policyholder account
balances.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     The Company must effectively  manage, measure and  monitor the market  risk
associated  with  its  invested  assets and  interest  rate  sensitive insurance
contracts. It has developed  an integrated process for  managing risk, which  it
conducts   through   its   Corporate   Risk   Management   Department,   several
asset/liability committees and  additional specialists at  the business  segment
level.  The Company has  established and implemented  comprehensive policies and
procedures at both  the corporate  and business  segment level  to minimize  the
effects of potential market volatility.

                                       107
<PAGE>

MARKET RISK EXPOSURES

     The  Company has exposure  to market risk  through its insurance operations
and investment activities.  For purposes  of this disclosure,  "market risk"  is
defined  as the risk  of loss resulting  from changes in  interest rates, equity
prices and foreign currency exchange rates.

     Interest rates.  The  Company's exposure to  interest rate changes  results
from  its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate
sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturities include U.S. and foreign  government
bonds,   securities  issued   by  government   agencies,  corporate   bonds  and
mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium
and long-term  treasury  rates.  The interest  rate  sensitive  liabilities  for
purposes  of  this disclosure  include guaranteed  interest contracts  and fixed
annuities, which have  the same  interest rate exposure  (medium- and  long-term
treasury  rates) as  the fixed maturities.  The Company  employs product design,
pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse  effects
of  interest rate volatility. Product design  and pricing strategies include the
use of  surrender  charges or  restrictions  on withdrawals  in  some  products.
Asset/liability  management  strategies  include  the  use  of  derivatives, the
purchase of  securities structured  to protect  against prepayments,  prepayment
restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the
pricing  of the Company's products in order  to better match the duration of the
assets and the liabilities they support.

     Equity prices.  The Company's investments in equity securities expose it to
changes in equity prices. It manages this risk on an integrated basis with other
risks through  its  asset/liability  management  strategies.  The  Company  also
manages  equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset
allocation techniques.

     Foreign currency exchange rates.  The Company's exposure to fluctuations in
foreign currency  exchange  rates  against  the U.S.  dollar  results  from  its
holdings  in non-U.S.  dollar denominated  fixed maturity  securities and equity
securities and through  its investments in  foreign subsidiaries. The  principal
currencies  which create  foreign currency exchange  rate risk  in the Company's
investment portfolios are  Canadian dollars,  Mexican pesos,  Chilean pesos  and
British  pounds. The  Company mitigates  the majority  of its  fixed maturities'
foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign  currency
swaps  and forward contracts.  Through its investments  in foreign subsidiaries,
the Company is primarily exposed to the  Mexican peso and South Korean won.  The
Company  has denominated substantially all assets and liabilities of its foreign
subsidiaries in their respective local  currencies, thereby minimizing its  risk
to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

RISK MANAGEMENT

     Corporate  risk management.  MetLife  has established several financial and
non-financial senior  management  committees  as part  of  its  risk  management
process.   These  committees   manage  capital   and  risk   positions,  approve
asset/liability  management  strategies  and  establish  appropriate   corporate
business standards.

     MetLife  also has a separate Corporate Risk Management Department, which is
responsible for risk throughout MetLife and reports to MetLife's Chief Financial
Officer. The  Corporate Risk  Management Department's  primary  responsibilities
consist of:

     - implementing  a  board  of directors-approved  corporate  risk framework,
       which  outlines  the   Company's  approach  for   managing  risk  on   an
       enterprise-wide basis;

     - developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring
       those risks identified in the corporate risk framework;

     - establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;

     - deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and

     - reporting  on a periodic basis to the Governance Committee of the Holding
       Company's Board  of Directors  and  various financial  and  non-financial
       senior management committees.

                                       108
<PAGE>

     Asset/liability  management.  At MetLife, asset/liability management is the
responsibility of the General Account Portfolio Management Department  ("GAPM"),
the  operating business  segments and various  GAPM boards. The  GAPM boards are
comprised of senior  officers from  the investment  department, senior  managers
from  each business segment  and the Executive Vice-President  in charge of risk
management  at  MetLife.   The  GAPM  boards'   duties  include  setting   broad
asset/liability  management policy and strategy,  reviewing and approving target
portfolios,  establishing  investment  guidelines  and  limits,  and   providing
oversight of the portfolio management process.

     The   portfolio   managers   and  asset   sector   specialists,   who  have
responsibility on a  day-to-day basis  for risk management  of their  respective
investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the GAPM
boards.  The  goals  of  the  investment  process  are  to  optimize  after-tax,
risk-adjusted investment income and after-tax, risk-adjusted total return  while
ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration
basis.  The risk  management objectives  established by  the GAPM  boards stress
quality, diversification,  asset/liability  matching, liquidity  and  investment
return.

     Each  of  MetLife's business  segments has  an asset/liability  officer who
works  with  portfolio  managers  in   the  investment  department  to   monitor
investment,  product pricing,  hedge strategy  and liability  management issues.
MetLife establishes target  asset portfolios for  each major insurance  product,
which   represent  the  investment  strategies   used  to  profitably  fund  its
liabilities  within  acceptable  levels   of  risk.  These  strategies   include
objectives   for  effective   duration,  yield   curve  sensitivity,  convexity,
liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality.

     To manage interest rate risk, the Company performs periodic projections  of
asset  and liability  cash flows  to evaluate  the potential  sensitivity of its
securities  investments  and  liabilities  to  interest  rate  movements.  These
projections  involve  evaluating  the potential  gain  or  loss on  most  of the
Company's in-force  business under  various increasing  and decreasing  interest
rate  environments. The  Company has developed  models of  its in-force business
that reflect specific product characteristics  and include assumptions based  on
current  and  anticipated  experience regarding  lapse,  mortality  and interest
crediting rates. In addition, these  models include asset cash flow  projections
reflecting  interest payments,  sinking fund payments,  principal payments, bond
calls,  mortgage  prepayments  and  defaults.  New  York  Insurance   Department
regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part
of  the  annual proof  of the  sufficiency  of its  regulatory reserves  to meet
adverse interest rate scenarios.

     Hedging activities.  MetLife's  risk management strategies incorporate  the
use  of various interest  rate derivatives that  are used to  adjust the overall
duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better  match
the  duration and cash flow  profile of its liabilities  to reduce interest rate
risk. Such instruments include  financial futures, financial forwards,  interest
rate  and credit default swaps, floors, options, written covered calls and caps.
MetLife also uses foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to  hedge
its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments.

     Economic  Capital.  Beginning in 2003,  the Company changed its methodology
of allocating capital  to its business  segments from RBC  to Economic  Capital.
Prior  to 2003, the Company's business  segments' allocated equity was primarily
based on RBC, an  internally developed formula based  on applying a multiple  to
the  NAIC  Statutory Risk-Based  Capital  and includes  certain  GAAP accounting
adjustments. Economic Capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the
purpose of which is to measure the risk  in the business and to provide a  basis
upon  which capital  is deployed.  The Economic  Capital model  accounts for the
unique and specific nature of the  risks inherent in MetLife's businesses.  This
is  in contrast  to the  standardized regulatory  RBC formula,  which is  not as
refined in its risk  calculations with respect to  the nuances of the  Company's
businesses.

     This  change in methodology is being applied prospectively. This change has
and will continue to impact the level of net investment income and net income of
each of the Company's business segments.  A portion of net investment income  is
credited  to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This change in
methodology of allocating equity does not impact the Company's consolidated  net
investment income or net income.

                                       109
<PAGE>

RISK MEASUREMENT; SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

     The Company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets
and  other  financial  instruments,  including  certain  market  risk  sensitive
insurance  contracts  ("other  financial  instruments"),  based  on  changes  in
interest   rates,  equity  prices  and  currency  exchange  rates,  utilizing  a
sensitivity analysis.  This analysis  estimates the  potential changes  in  fair
value,  cash flows and earnings based on  a hypothetical 10% change (increase or
decrease) in  interest rates,  equity prices  and currency  exchange rates.  The
Company  believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates
and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. In performing this analysis,
the Company used  market rates  at December 31,  2003 to  re-price its  invested
assets  and  other financial  instruments.  The sensitivity  analysis separately
calculated each of MetLife's market risk exposures (interest rate, equity  price
and  foreign currency exchange rate) related  to its non-trading invested assets
and other  financial  instruments.  The  Company does  not  maintain  a  trading
portfolio.

     The  sensitivity  analysis  performed included  the  market  risk sensitive
holdings described above. The  Company modeled the impact  of changes in  market
rates  and prices on the  fair values of its  invested assets, earnings and cash
flows as follows:

     Fair values.  The Company bases its  potential change in fair values on  an
immediate change (increase or decrease) in:

     - the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting
       from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates;

     - the  U.S. dollar equivalent balances  of the Company's currency exposures
       due to a 10%  change (increase or decrease)  in currency exchange  rates;
       and

     - the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or
       decrease) in equity prices.

     Earnings  and  cash  flows.   MetLife  calculates the  potential  change in
earnings and cash  flows on the  change in its  earnings and cash  flows over  a
one-year  period  based on  an immediate  10% change  (increase or  decrease) in
market rates and equity prices. The following factors were incorporated into the
earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses:

     - the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities;

     - the reinvestment  of payments  and prepayments  of principal  related  to
       mortgage-backed securities;

     - the  re-estimation of prepayment rates  on mortgage-backed securities for
       each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and

     - the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity  securities,
       including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds.

     The  sensitivity  analysis  is an  estimate  and  should not  be  viewed as
predictive of the  Company's future  financial performance.  The Company  cannot
assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts
indicated  in the table below. Limitations  related to this sensitivity analysis
include:

     - the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and  parameters
       established  in creating the related  sensitivity analysis, including the
       impact of prepayment rates on mortgages;

     - the  analysis  excludes  other  significant  real  estate  holdings   and
       liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and

     - the  model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains
       unchanged throughout the year.

     Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not substitutes  for
the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management
personnel.

     Based  on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease)
in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change could have
a   material   adverse   effect   on   the   fair   value   of   its    interest

                                       110
<PAGE>

rate  sensitive invested assets.  The equity and  foreign currency portfolios do
not expose the Company to material market risk.

     The table  below  illustrates the  potential  loss  in fair  value  of  the
Company's interest rate sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2003 and
2002. In addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency
exchange  rates and the  Company's equity price  sensitive positions at December
31, 2003 and 2002 is set forth in the table below.

     The potential  loss in  fair value  for each  market risk  exposure of  the
Company's portfolio, all of which is non-trading, for the periods indicated was:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------
                                                                2003         2002
                                                              ---------    ---------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Interest rate risk..........................................   $3,617       $2,710
Equity price risk...........................................   $  155       $  120
Foreign currency exchange rate risk.........................   $  619       $  529
</Table>

     The  change in potential loss in fair value related to market risk exposure
between December 31, 2003 and 2002 was primarily attributable to a shift in  the
yield curve.

                                       111
<PAGE>

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              PAGE
                                                              ----
<S>                                                           <C>
Independent Auditors' Report................................  F-1
Financial Statements as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and
  for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
  Consolidated Balance Sheets...............................  F-2
  Consolidated Statements of Income.........................  F-3
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity...........  F-4
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.....................  F-5
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................  F-7

Financial Statement Schedules as of December 31, 2003 and
  for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
  Schedule I -- Consolidated Summary of Investments -- Other
     Than Investments in Affiliates.........................  116
  Schedule II -- Condensed Financial Information of MetLife,
     Inc. (Registrant)......................................  117
  Schedule III -- Consolidated Supplementary Insurance
     Information............................................  119
  Schedule IV -- Consolidated Reinsurance...................  121
</Table>

                                       112
<PAGE>

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
MetLife, Inc.:

     We  have audited the  accompanying consolidated balance  sheets of MetLife,
Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and  the
related  consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows
for each of the three  years in the period ended  December 31, 2003. Our  audits
also  included  the  financial  statement  schedules  listed  in  the  Index  to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules. These financial statements  and
financial   statement  schedules   are  the  responsibility   of  the  Company's
management. Our  responsibility  is  to  express an  opinion  on  the  financial
statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

     We  conducted our  audits in  accordance with  auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of  America. Those standards require that we  plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence  supporting the  amounts and disclosures  in the  financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates  made by  management, as  well as  evaluating the  overall
financial   statement  presentation.  We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, such consolidated  financial statements present fairly,  in
all  material respects, the consolidated financial position of MetLife, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003  and 2002, and the consolidated results  of
their  operations and their consolidated cash flows  for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United States of  America. Also, in our opinion, such
financial  statement  schedules,  when  considered  in  relation  to  the  basic
consolidated  financial  statements  taken as  a  whole, present  fairly  in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

     As discussed in Note  1, the Company changed  its method of accounting  for
embedded derivatives in certain insurance products as required by new accounting
guidance which became effective on October 1, 2003, and recorded the impact as a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
March 5, 2004

                                       F-1
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002

             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2003       2002
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
ASSETS
Investments:
  Fixed maturities available-for-sale, at fair value
     (amortized cost: $158,333 and $132,899,
     respectively)..........................................  $167,752   $140,288
  Equity securities, at fair value (cost: $1,222 and $1,556,
     respectively)..........................................     1,598      1,613
  Mortgage loans on real estate.............................    26,249     25,086
  Policy loans..............................................     8,749      8,580
  Real estate and real estate joint ventures
     held-for-investment....................................     4,714      3,926
  Real estate held-for-sale.................................        89        799
  Other limited partnership interests.......................     2,477      2,395
  Short-term investments....................................     1,826      1,921
  Other invested assets.....................................     4,645      3,727
                                                              --------   --------
          Total investments.................................   218,099    188,335
Cash and cash equivalents...................................     3,733      2,323
Accrued investment income...................................     2,186      2,088
Premiums and other receivables..............................     7,047      6,445
Deferred policy acquisition costs...........................    12,943     11,727
Other assets................................................     7,077      6,815
Separate account assets.....................................    75,756     59,693
                                                              --------   --------
          Total assets......................................  $326,841   $277,426
                                                              ========   ========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Liabilities:
  Future policy benefits....................................  $ 94,148   $ 89,815
  Policyholder account balances.............................    75,901     66,830
  Other policyholder funds..................................     6,343      5,685
  Policyholder dividends payable............................     1,049      1,030
  Policyholder dividend obligation..........................     2,130      1,882
  Short-term debt...........................................     3,642      1,161
  Long-term debt............................................     5,703      4,425
  Shares subject to mandatory redemption....................       277         --
  Current income taxes payable..............................       652        769
  Deferred income taxes payable.............................     2,399      1,625
  Payables under securities loaned transactions.............    27,083     17,862
  Other liabilities.........................................    10,609      7,999
  Separate account liabilities..............................    75,756     59,693
                                                              --------   --------
          Total liabilities.................................   305,692    258,776
                                                              --------   --------
Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable securities of
  subsidiary trusts.........................................        --      1,265
                                                              --------   --------
Stockholders' Equity:
  Preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share; 200,000,000
     shares authorized; none issued.........................        --         --
  Common stock, par value $0.01 per share; 3,000,000,000
     shares authorized; 786,766,664 shares issued at
     December 31, 2003 and 2002; 757,186,137 shares
     outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 700,278,412 shares
     outstanding at December 31, 2002.......................         8          8
  Additional paid-in capital................................    14,991     14,968
  Retained earnings.........................................     4,193      2,807
  Treasury stock, at cost; 29,580,527 shares at December 31,
     2003 and 86,488,252 shares at December 31, 2002........      (835)    (2,405)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income....................     2,792      2,007
                                                              --------   --------
          Total stockholders' equity........................    21,149     17,385
                                                              --------   --------
          Total liabilities and stockholders' equity........  $326,841   $277,426
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-2
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 AND 2001

                  (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2003      2002      2001
                                                              -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
REVENUES
Premiums....................................................  $20,673   $19,077   $17,212
Universal life and investment-type product policy fees......    2,496     2,147     1,889
Net investment income.......................................   11,636    11,261    11,187
Other revenues..............................................    1,342     1,332     1,507
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocable from
  other accounts of ($215), ($145) and ($134),
  respectively).............................................     (358)     (751)     (579)
                                                              -------   -------   -------
          Total revenues....................................   35,789    33,066    31,216
                                                              -------   -------   -------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims (excludes amounts directly
  related to net investment gains (losses) of ($184), ($150)
  and ($159), respectively).................................   20,848    19,523    18,454
Interest credited to policyholder account balances..........    3,035     2,950     3,084
Policyholder dividends......................................    1,975     1,942     2,086
Other expenses (excludes amounts directly related to net
  investment gains (losses) of ($31), $5 and $25,
  respectively).............................................    7,301     7,015     7,022
                                                              -------   -------   -------
          Total expenses....................................   33,159    31,430    30,646
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Income from continuing operations before provision for
  income taxes..............................................    2,630     1,636       570
Provision for income taxes..................................      687       502       204
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Income from continuing operations...........................    1,943     1,134       366
Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes....      300       471       107
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting.....    2,243     1,605       473
Cumulative effect of change in accounting, net of income
  taxes.....................................................      (26)       --        --
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Net income..................................................  $ 2,217   $ 1,605   $   473
                                                              =======   =======   =======
Income from continuing operations available to common
  shareholders per share
  Basic.....................................................  $  2.60   $  1.61   $  0.49
                                                              =======   =======   =======
  Diluted...................................................  $  2.57   $  1.56   $  0.48
                                                              =======   =======   =======
Net income available to common shareholders per share
  Basic.....................................................  $  2.98   $  2.28   $  0.64
                                                              =======   =======   =======
  Diluted...................................................  $  2.94   $  2.20   $  0.62
                                                              =======   =======   =======
Cash dividends per share....................................  $  0.23   $  0.21   $  0.20
                                                              =======   =======   =======
</Table>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-3
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 AND 2001

                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                   ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
                                                                                            INCOME (LOSS)
                                                                              -----------------------------------------
                                                                                   NET           FOREIGN      MINIMUM
                                           ADDITIONAL              TREASURY     UNREALIZED      CURRENCY      PENSION
                                  COMMON    PAID-IN     RETAINED   STOCK AT     INVESTMENT     TRANSLATION   LIABILITY
                                  STOCK     CAPITAL     EARNINGS     COST     GAINS (LOSSES)   ADJUSTMENT    ADJUSTMENT    TOTAL
                                  ------   ----------   --------   --------   --------------   -----------   ----------   -------
<S>                               <C>      <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>          <C>
Balance at December 31, 2000....    $8      $14,926      $1,021    $  (613)       $1,175          $(100)       $ (28)     $16,389
Treasury stock transactions,
  net...........................                                    (1,321)                                                (1,321)
Dividends on common stock.......                           (145)                                                             (145)
Issuance of warrants -- by
  subsidiary....................                 40                                                                            40
Comprehensive income:
  Net income....................                            473                                                               473
  Other comprehensive income:
    Cumulative effect of change
      in accounting for
      derivatives, net of income
      taxes.....................                                                      22                                       22
    Unrealized gains on
      derivative instruments,
      net of income taxes.......                                                      24                                       24
    Unrealized investment gains,
      net of related offsets,
      reclassification
      adjustments and income
      taxes.....................                                                     658                                      658
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustments...............                                                                    (60)                      (60)
    Minimum pension liability
      adjustment................                                                                                 (18)         (18)
                                                                                                                          -------
    Other comprehensive
      income....................                                                                                              626
                                                                                                                          -------
  Comprehensive income..........                                                                                            1,099
                                    --      -------      ------    -------        ------          -----        -----      -------
Balance at December 31, 2001....     8       14,966       1,349     (1,934)        1,879           (160)         (46)      16,062
Treasury stock transactions,
  net...........................                  2                   (471)                                                  (469)
Dividends on common stock.......                           (147)                                                             (147)
Comprehensive income:
  Net income....................                          1,605                                                             1,605
  Other comprehensive income:
    Unrealized losses on
      derivative instruments,
      net of income taxes.......                                                     (60)                                     (60)
    Unrealized investment gains,
      net of related offsets,
      reclassification
      adjustments and income
      taxes.....................                                                     463                                      463
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustments...............                                                                    (69)                      (69)
                                                                                                                          -------
    Other comprehensive
      income....................                                                                                              334
                                                                                                                          -------
  Comprehensive income..........                                                                                            1,939
                                    --      -------      ------    -------        ------          -----        -----      -------
Balance at December 31, 2002....     8       14,968       2,807     (2,405)        2,282           (229)         (46)      17,385
Treasury stock transactions,
  net...........................                 20                    (92)                                                   (72)
Issuance of shares -- by
  subsidiary....................                 24                                                                            24
Dividends on common stock.......                           (175)                                                             (175)
Settlement of common stock
  purchase contracts............                           (656)     1,662                                                  1,006
Premium on conversion of
  company-obligated mandatorily
  redeemable securities of a
  subsidiary trust..............                (21)                                                                          (21)
Comprehensive income:
  Net income....................                          2,217                                                             2,217
  Other comprehensive income:
    Unrealized losses on
      derivative instruments,
      net of income taxes.......                                                    (250)                                    (250)
    Unrealized investment gains,
      net of related offsets,
      reclassification
      adjustments and income
      taxes.....................                                                     940                                      940
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustments...............                                                                    177                       177
    Minimum pension liability
      adjustment................                                                                                 (82)         (82)
                                                                                                                          -------
    Other comprehensive
      income....................                                                                                              785
                                                                                                                          -------
  Comprehensive income..........                                                                                            3,002
                                    --      -------      ------    -------        ------          -----        -----      -------
Balance at December 31, 2003....    $8      $14,991      $4,193    $  (835)       $2,972          $ (52)       $(128)     $21,149
                                    ==      =======      ======    =======        ======          =====        =====      =======
</Table>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-4
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 AND 2001

                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2003        2002       2001
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income..................................................  $   2,217   $  1,605   $    473
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
  operating activities:
     Depreciation and amortization expenses.................        478        498        481
     Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts
       associated with investments, net.....................       (180)      (519)      (575)
     (Gains) losses from sales of investments and
       businesses, net......................................        152        317        713
     Interest credited to other policyholder account
       balances.............................................      3,035      2,950      3,084
     Universal life and investment-type product policy
       fees.................................................     (2,496)    (2,147)    (1,889)
     Change in premiums and other receivables...............       (334)      (473)       476
     Change in deferred policy acquisition costs, net.......     (1,332)      (741)      (563)
     Change in insurance-related liabilities................      4,687      3,104      2,508
     Change in income taxes payable.........................        241        479        477
     Change in bank customer deposits.......................        897        209         81
     Change in other liabilities............................        560       (117)       (40)
     Other, net.............................................       (562)      (997)      (968)
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
Net cash provided by operating activities...................      7,363      4,168      4,258
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  Sales, maturities and repayments of:
     Fixed maturities.......................................     76,200     64,602     52,426
     Equity securities......................................        612      2,703      2,125
     Mortgage loans on real estate..........................      3,483      2,638      1,993
     Real estate and real estate joint ventures.............        889        835        344
     Other limited partnership interests....................        308        209        396
  Purchases of:
     Fixed maturities.......................................   (101,577)   (85,155)   (51,865)
     Equity securities......................................       (187)    (1,260)    (3,354)
     Mortgage loans on real estate..........................     (4,975)    (3,206)    (3,494)
     Real estate and real estate joint ventures.............       (344)      (208)      (769)
     Other limited partnership interests....................       (588)      (456)      (424)
  Net change in short-term investments......................         98       (477)        74
  Purchases of businesses, net of cash received.............         18       (879)      (276)
  Proceeds from sales of businesses.........................          5         --         81
  Net change in payable under securities loaned
     transactions...........................................      9,221      5,201        360
  Other, net................................................       (851)      (760)      (587)
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
Net cash used in investing activities.......................  $ (17,688)  $(16,213)  $ (2,970)
                                                              ---------   --------   --------

                See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
</Table>

                                       F-5
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS -- (CONTINUED)
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 AND 2001

                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2003        2002       2001
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  Policyholder account balances:
     Deposits...............................................  $  37,023   $ 31,061   $ 31,421
     Withdrawals............................................    (28,674)   (25,151)   (27,899)
  Net change in short-term debt.............................      2,481        806       (730)
  Long-term debt issued.....................................        934      1,008      1,600
  Long-term debt repaid.....................................       (763)      (211)      (372)
  Treasury stock acquired...................................        (97)      (471)    (1,321)
  Settlement of common stock purchase contracts.............      1,006         --         --
  Net proceeds from issuance of company-obligated
     mandatorily redeemable securities of subsidiary
     trust..................................................         --         --        197
  Dividends on common stock.................................       (175)      (147)      (145)
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
Net cash provided by financing activities...................     11,735      6,895      2,751
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
Change in cash and cash equivalents.........................      1,410     (5,150)     4,039
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................      2,323      7,473      3,434
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR......................  $   3,733   $  2,323   $  7,473
                                                              =========   ========   ========
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
  Cash paid (refunded) during the year:
     Interest...............................................  $     505   $    424   $    349
                                                              =========   ========   ========
     Income taxes...........................................  $     702   $    193   $   (262)
                                                              =========   ========   ========
  Non-cash transactions during the year:
     Business acquisitions -- assets........................  $     126   $  2,630   $  1,336
                                                              =========   ========   ========
     Business acquisitions -- liabilities...................  $     144   $  1,751   $  1,060
                                                              =========   ========   ========
     Business dispositions -- assets........................  $       9   $     --   $    102
                                                              =========   ========   ========
     Business dispositions -- liabilities...................  $       4   $     --   $     44
                                                              =========   ========   ========
     Purchase money mortgage on real estate sale............  $     196   $    954   $     --
                                                              =========   ========   ========
     MetLife Capital Trust I transactions...................  $   1,037   $     --   $     --
                                                              =========   ========   ========
     Real estate acquired in satisfaction of debt...........  $      14   $     30   $     30
                                                              =========   ========   ========
</Table>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-6
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  BUSINESS

     "MetLife"  or the "Company" refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(the "Holding  Company"),  and  its subsidiaries,  including  Metropolitan  Life
Insurance  Company ("Metropolitan Life") is a  leading provider of insurance and
other financial services  to a  broad spectrum of  individual and  institutional
customers.   The  Company  offers  life  insurance,  annuities,  automobile  and
homeowners  insurance  and  mutual  funds  to  individuals,  as  well  as  group
insurance,  reinsurance  and retirement  and  savings products  and  services to
corporations and other institutions.

  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts  of
(i)  the  Holding  Company and  its  subsidiaries: (ii)  partnerships  and joint
ventures in which the Company has a majority voting interest; and (iii) variable
interest entities ("VIEs") created or acquired  on or after February 1, 2003  of
which  the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. Closed block assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses are combined on a line by line basis with the
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses outside the closed block based on the
nature  of  the  particular  item.   See  Note  6.  Intercompany  accounts   and
transactions have been eliminated.

     The  Company uses the  equity method of accounting  for investments in real
estate joint ventures and  other limited partnership interests  in which it  has
more  than  a  minor equity  interest  or  more than  minor  influence  over the
partnership's operations, but does not have a controlling interest. The  Company
uses  the cost method of accounting for interests in which it has a minor equity
investment and virtually no influence over the partnership's operations.

     Minority interest  related  to  consolidated  entities  included  in  other
liabilities  was $950 million  and $491 million  at December 31,  2003 and 2002,
respectively. This increase  was the direct  result of the  change in  MetLife's
ownership of RGA to approximately 52% in 2003 compared to 59% in 2002.

     Certain  amounts in the prior years' consolidated financial statements have
been reclassified to conform with the 2003 presentation.

  SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

     The preparation of  financial statements in  conformity with GAAP  requires
management  to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
affect amounts reported in the  consolidated financial statements. The  critical
accounting  policies, estimates  and related judgments  underlying the Company's
consolidated financial  statements  are  summarized  below.  In  applying  these
policies,  management  makes subjective  and  complex judgments  that frequently
require estimates about  matters that  are inherently uncertain.  Many of  these
policies,  estimates  and  related judgments  are  common in  the  insurance and
financial services industries; others are  specific to the Company's  businesses
and operations.

  Investments

     The Company's principal investments are in fixed maturities, mortgage loans
and real estate, all of which are exposed to three primary sources of investment
risk:  credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks
are those associated with the recognition of impairments and income, as well  as
the  determination of  fair values. The  assessment of  whether impairments have
occurred is  based on  management's case-by-case  evaluation of  the  underlying
reasons  for the  decline in  fair value. Management  considers a  wide range of
factors about the security issuer and  uses its best judgment in evaluating  the
cause  of  the  decline in  the  estimated fair  value  of the  security  and in
assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in

                                       F-7
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about  the
operations  of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used
by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited
to: (i) the length  of time and the  extent to which the  market value has  been
below  cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is
experiencing  significant  financial  difficulties;  (iii)  the  potential   for
impairments  in an entire industry sector  or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for
impairments in  certain economically  depressed  geographic locations;  (v)  the
potential  for impairments of securities where  the issuer, series of issuers or
industry has  suffered a  catastrophic type  of loss  or has  exhausted  natural
resources;  (vi) unfavorable  changes in  forecasted cash  flows on asset-backed
securities; and  (vii) other  subjective factors,  including concentrations  and
information  obtained  from regulators  and  rating agencies.  In  addition, the
earnings on  certain investments  are dependent  upon market  conditions,  which
could  result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned due to changing
interest rates  or equity  markets.  The determination  of  fair values  in  the
absence  of quoted market values is  based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii)
securities the  Company deems  to be  comparable; and  (iii) assumptions  deemed
appropriate  given  the circumstances.  The use  of different  methodologies and
assumptions may have a material effect  on the estimated fair value amounts.  In
addition,  the Company  enters into certain  structured investment transactions,
real estate joint ventures and limited partnerships for which the Company may be
deemed to  be  the  primary  beneficiary and,  therefore,  may  be  required  to
consolidate  such investments. The accounting rules for the determination of the
primary beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of the contractual rights
and obligations associated with each party  involved in the entity, an  estimate
of the entity's expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation
of such estimates to each party.

  Derivatives

     The  Company enters into freestanding  derivative transactions primarily to
manage the risk  associated with variability  in cash flows  or changes in  fair
values  related to the Company's financial assets and liabilities or to changing
fair values. The Company also uses derivative instruments to hedge its  currency
exposure  associated  with net  investments in  certain foreign  operations. The
Company also purchases investment securities, issues certain insurance  policies
and  engages  in  certain  reinsurance  contracts  that  embed  derivatives. The
associated financial statement risk  is the volatility in  net income which  can
result  from  (i)  changes  in  fair  value  of  derivatives  not  qualifying as
accounting  hedges;  (ii)  ineffectiveness  of  designated  hedges;  and   (iii)
counterparty  default. In  addition, there is  a risk  that embedded derivatives
requiring bifurcation  are not  identified and  reported at  fair value  in  the
consolidated  financial statements.  Accounting for  derivatives is  complex, as
evidenced by significant authoritative interpretations of the primary accounting
standards which continue  to evolve, as  well as the  significant judgments  and
estimates  involved in  determining fair value  in the absence  of quoted market
values. These estimates  are based  on valuation  methodologies and  assumptions
deemed  appropriate  in the  circumstances.  Such assumptions  include estimated
volatility and interest  rates used  in the  determination of  fair value  where
quoted  market values  are not available.  The use of  different assumptions may
have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs

     The Company incurs significant costs  in connection with acquiring new  and
renewal  insurance  business. These  costs, which  vary  with and  are primarily
related to the production of that  business, are deferred. The recovery of  such
costs  is dependent upon  the future profitability of  the related business. The
amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess
of the  amounts credited  to policyholders,  mortality, morbidity,  persistency,
interest  crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness
of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation.
Of these  factors, the  Company  anticipates that  investment returns  are  most
likely  to impact  the rate  of amortization  of such  costs. The aforementioned
factors enter into management's  estimates of gross  margins and profits,  which
generally  are used  to amortize  such costs.  Revisions to  estimates result in
changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting

                                       F-8
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

period in which the revisions are made and could result in the impairment of the
asset and a charge to income if  estimated future gross margins and profits  are
less  than amounts deferred. In addition,  the Company utilizes the reversion to
the mean assumption, a standard industry  practice, in its determination of  the
amortization  of deferred  policy acquisition  cost ("DAC"),  including value of
business acquired  ("VOBA").  This practice  assumes  that the  expectation  for
long-term  appreciation in  equity markets  is not  changed by  minor short-term
market fluctuations, but that it does change when large interim deviations  have
occurred.

  Future Policy Benefits

     The  Company establishes  liabilities for  amounts payable  under insurance
policies,  including  traditional  life  insurance,  annuities  and   disability
insurance.  Generally, amounts are  payable over an extended  period of time and
liabilities are  established  based on  methods  and underlying  assumptions  in
accordance  with GAAP and applicable  actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
used in  the  establishment  of  liabilities  for  future  policy  benefits  are
mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns and inflation.

     The  Company  also establishes  liabilities  for unpaid  claims  and claims
expenses for  property  and casualty  insurance.  Liabilities for  property  and
casualty  insurance are  dependent on  estimates of  amounts payable  for claims
reported but not settled and claims  incurred but not reported. These  estimates
are  influenced by historical experience  and actuarial assumptions with respect
to current developments, anticipated trends and risk management strategies.

     Differences between the actual experience  and assumptions used in  pricing
these  policies and in  the establishment of liabilities  result in variances in
profit and could result in losses.

  Reinsurance

     The Company enters into reinsurance transactions  as both a provider and  a
purchaser  of reinsurance. Accounting for  reinsurance requires extensive use of
assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the
underlying business and the potential  impact of counterparty credit risks.  The
Company  periodically reviews actual and  anticipated experience compared to the
aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating  to
ceded   and  assumed  reinsurance  and   evaluates  the  financial  strength  of
counterparties to  its reinsurance  agreements using  criteria similar  to  that
evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously. Additionally,
for  each  of  its reinsurance  contracts,  the  Company must  determine  if the
contract  provides  indemnification  against  loss  or  liability  relating   to
insurance  risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company
must review  all contractual  features, particularly  those that  may limit  the
amount  of insurance  risk to  which the reinsurer  is subject  or features that
delay the  timely reimbursement  of claims.  If the  Company determines  that  a
reinsurance  contract does not expose the  reinsurer to a reasonable possibility
of a significant  loss from  insurance risk,  the Company  records the  contract
using the deposit method of accounting.

  Litigation

     The  Company is a  party to a  number of legal  actions. Given the inherent
unpredictability of  litigation,  it is  difficult  to estimate  the  impact  of
litigation  on the  Company's consolidated  financial position.  Liabilities are
established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount  of
the  loss can be reasonably estimated.  Liabilities related to certain lawsuits,
including the Company's asbestos-related liability, are especially difficult  to
estimate  due  to the  limitation of  available  data and  uncertainty regarding
numerous variables used to  determine amounts recorded.  The data and  variables
that  impact  the assumption  used  to estimate  the  Company's asbestos-related
liability include the number of future  claims, the cost to resolve claims,  the
disease  mix and  severity of  disease, the  jurisdiction of  claims filed, tort
reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and  their
amounts.  It is  possible that  an adverse outcome  in certain  of the Company's
litigation,  including  asbestos-related   cases,  or  the   use  of   different
assumptions in the

                                       F-9
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

determination  of  amounts  recorded  could  have  a  material  effect  upon the
Company's consolidated  net income  or  cash flows  in particular  quarterly  or
annual periods.

  Employee Benefit Plans

     The  Company sponsors pension  and other retirement  plans in various forms
covering employees  who meet  specified eligibility  requirements. The  reported
expense  and liability associated with these  plans requires an extensive use of
assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets  and
rate  of future compensation increases as  determined by the Company. Management
determines these assumptions based upon currently available market and  industry
data,  historical performance of the plan  and its assets, and consultation with
an independent  consulting actuarial  firm to  aid it  in selecting  appropriate
assumptions  and valuing its related liabilities. The actuarial assumptions used
in the calculation of the  Company's aggregate projected benefit obligation  may
vary  and  include an  expectation of  long-term  market appreciation  in equity
markets which is not changed by  minor short-term market fluctuations, but  does
change  when  large  interim deviations  occur.  These assumptions  used  by the
Company may differ  materially from actual  results due to  changing market  and
economic  conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life
spans of the participants.  These differences may have  a significant effect  on
the Company's consolidated financial statements and liquidity.

  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Investments

     The  Company's  fixed  maturity  and equity  securities  are  classified as
available-for-sale and are  reported at their  estimated fair value.  Unrealized
investment  gains and losses on securities  are recorded as a separate component
of other comprehensive income or loss,  net of policyholder related amounts  and
deferred  income  taxes. The  cost of  fixed maturity  and equity  securities is
adjusted for  impairments  in value  deemed  to be  other-than-temporary.  These
adjustments  are recorded as  investment losses. Investment  gains and losses on
sales of  securities are  determined  on a  specific identification  basis.  All
security transactions are recorded on a trade date basis.

     Mortgage  loans  on  real  estate  are stated  at  amortized  cost,  net of
valuation allowances.  Valuation  allowances  are  established  for  the  excess
carrying  value of the  mortgage loan over  its estimated fair  value when it is
probable that, based upon  current information and events,  the Company will  be
unable  to  collect all  amounts due  under  the contractual  terms of  the loan
agreement. Such  valuation  allowances  are  based upon  the  present  value  of
expected  future cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest
rate or the collateral  value if the loan  is collateral dependent. The  Company
also  establishes allowances  for loan loss  when a loss  contingency exists for
pools of loans with similar characteristics based on property types and loan  to
value  risk factors. A loss contingency exists when the likelihood that a future
event will  occur  is  probable  based on  past  events.  Changes  in  valuation
allowances  are included  in net  investment gains  and losses.  Interest income
earned on impaired loans is accrued on the principal amount of the loan based on
the loan's contractual interest rate. However, interest ceases to be accrued for
loans on which interest is generally more than 60 days past due and/or where the
collection of interest  is not  considered probable. Cash  receipts on  impaired
loans are recorded as a reduction of the recorded investment.

     Real  estate held-for-investment, including related improvements, is stated
at  cost  less   accumulated  depreciation.  Depreciation   is  provided  on   a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset (typically 20 to
40  years). Once the Company  identifies a property that  is expected to be sold
within one  year  and commences  a  firm plan  for  marketing the  property,  in
accordance with SFAS 144, the Company, if applicable, classifies the property as
held-for-sale  and reports the  related net investment  income and any resulting
investment  gains   and  losses   as   discontinued  operations.   Real   estate
held-for-sale  is stated  at the  lower of depreciated  cost or  fair value less
expected  disposition  costs.  Real  estate  is  not  depreciated  while  it  is
classified as held-for-sale. Cost of real estate held-for-investment is adjusted
for impairment whenever events
                                       F-10
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be
recoverable.  Impaired real estate is written  down to estimated fair value with
the  impairment  loss  being  included  in  net  investment  gains  and  losses.
Impairment  losses are based upon the estimated fair value of real estate, which
is generally computed using the present value of expected future cash flows from
the real estate  discounted at a  rate commensurate with  the underlying  risks.
Real  estate acquired upon  foreclosure of commercial  and agricultural mortgage
loans is recorded at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value  of
the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure.

     Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances.

     Short-term  investments are  stated at  amortized cost,  which approximates
fair value.

     Other invested assets  consist principally  of leveraged  leases and  funds
withheld  at interest.  The leveraged  leases are  recorded net  of non-recourse
debt. The Company participates  in lease transactions  which are diversified  by
industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company regularly reviews residual
values  and  impairs  residuals to  expected  values as  needed.  Funds withheld
represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance  with
reinsurance  agreements. For agreements written  on a modified coinsurance basis
and certain agreements  written on  a coinsurance basis,  assets supporting  the
reinsured  policies and  equal to  the net  statutory reserves  are withheld and
continue to be legally owned by the ceding companies. Other invested assets also
includes the fair value  of embedded derivatives related  to funds withheld  and
modified  coinsurance  contracts.  The  Company  recognizes  interest  on  funds
withheld in accordance with the treaty  terms as investment income is earned  on
the assets supporting the reinsured policies.

  Structured Investment Transactions

     The  Company participates in  structured investment transactions, primarily
asset securitizations  and  structured  notes. These  transactions  enhance  the
Company's  total return  of the  investment portfolio  principally by generating
management fee income  on asset  securitizations and  by providing  equity-based
returns on debt securities through structured notes and similar instruments.

     The  Company sponsors  financial asset  securitizations of  high yield debt
securities, investment grade bonds and structured finance securities and also is
the collateral manager and a beneficial interest holder in such transactions. As
the collateral manager,  the Company  earns management fees  on the  outstanding
securitized  asset balance,  which are  recorded in  income as  earned. When the
Company transfers assets to a  bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity  ("SPE")
and surrenders control over the transferred assets, the transaction is accounted
for  as a sale. Gains or losses on securitizations are determined with reference
to the carrying amount of the  financial assets transferred, which is  allocated
to  the assets sold and the beneficial interests retained based on relative fair
values at  the date  of transfer.  Beneficial interests  in securitizations  are
carried  at fair value in fixed maturities. Income on these beneficial interests
is recognized using the  prospective method in  accordance with Emerging  Issues
Task  Force  ("EITF")  Issue  No.  99-20,  Recognition  of  Interest  Income and
Impairment on Certain Investments  ("EITF 99-20"). The  SPEs used to  securitize
assets  are not consolidated  by the Company because  the Company has determined
that it is not the primary beneficiary of these entities based on the  framework
provided   in  FASB   Interpretation  No.   46  (revised   December  31,  2003),
Consolidation of Variable  Interest Entities,  An Interpretation of  ARB No.  51
("FIN  46(r)").  Prior  to  the  adoption  of  FIN  46(r),  such  SPEs  were not
consolidated because  they did  not meet  the criteria  for consolidation  under
previous accounting guidance.

     The  Company  purchases or  receives  beneficial interests  in  SPEs, which
generally  acquire  financial   assets,  including   corporate  equities,   debt
securities   and  purchased  options.   The  Company  has   not  guaranteed  the
performance, liquidity or obligations of the SPEs and the Company's exposure  to
loss  is limited to its carrying value  of the beneficial interests in the SPEs.
The Company  uses  the beneficial  interests  as  part of  its  risk  management
strategy,  including asset-liability management. These SPEs are not consolidated
by the Company because  the Company has  determined that it  is not the  primary
beneficiary of these entities based

                                       F-11
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

on the framework provided in FIN 46(r). Prior to the adoption of FIN 46(r), such
SPEs  were  not  consolidated  because  they  did  not  meet  the  criteria  for
consolidation under previous accounting guidance. These beneficial interests are
generally structured notes, as defined by  EITF Issue No. 96-12, Recognition  of
Interest  Income and Balance Sheet Classification of Structured Notes, which are
included  in  fixed  maturities,  and  their  income  is  recognized  using  the
retrospective  interest  method  or  the  level  yield  method,  as appropriate.
Impairments of these beneficial interests  are included in net investment  gains
and losses.

  Derivative Financial Instruments

     The  Company uses derivative instruments to manage risk through one of five
principal risk  management strategies,  the hedging  of: (i)  liabilities;  (ii)
invested assets; (iii) portfolios of assets or liabilities; (iv) net investments
in   certain  foreign  operations;  and  (v)  firm  commitments  and  forecasted
transactions. Additionally,  the  Company  enters  into  income  generation  and
replication  derivative transactions as permitted by its insurance subsidiaries'
Derivatives Use Plans  approved by the  applicable state insurance  departments.
The  Company's  derivative hedging  strategy employs  a variety  of instruments,
including financial futures, financial  forwards, interest rate, credit  default
and  foreign currency swaps,  foreign currency forwards,  and options, including
caps and floors.

     On the  date the  Company  enters into  a derivative  contract,  management
designates  the derivative  as a hedge  of the identified  exposure (fair value,
cash flow  or foreign  currency). If  a derivative  does not  qualify for  hedge
accounting,  according to  Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
No. 133,  Accounting  for  Derivative Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,  as
amended  ("SFAS 133"), the changes in its  fair value and all scheduled periodic
settlement receipts and payments are reported in net investment gains or losses.

     The  Company   formally  documents   all  relationships   between   hedging
instruments  and  hedged items,  as well  as its  risk management  objective and
strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. In this documentation,  the
Company  specifically identifies the asset,  liability, firm commitment, foreign
operation, or forecasted transaction that has been designated as a hedged  item,
states  how the hedging instrument is expected to hedge the risks related to the
hedged item, and sets forth the method that will be used to retrospectively  and
prospectively  assess the hedging instrument's effectiveness and the method that
will be used to measure hedge ineffectiveness. The Company generally  determines
hedge  effectiveness  based  on total  changes  in  fair value  of  a derivative
instrument. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when: (i) it
is determined that the derivative is  no longer effective in offsetting  changes
in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative expires or
is  sold, terminated, or  exercised; (iii) the derivative  is de-designated as a
hedge instrument; (iv) it is probable  that the forecasted transaction will  not
occur;  (v) a hedged  firm commitment no  longer meets the  definition of a firm
commitment; or (vi) management determines that designation of the derivative  as
a hedge instrument is no longer appropriate.

     The  Company designates and accounts for the following as cash flow hedges,
when they have met the effectiveness requirements of SFAS 133: (i) various types
of interest  rate swaps  to  convert floating  rate  investments to  fixed  rate
investments;  (ii) various types of interest rate swaps to convert floating rate
liabilities into  fixed rate  liabilities; (iii)  receive U.S.  dollar fixed  on
foreign  currency  swaps to  hedge the  foreign currency  cash flow  exposure of
foreign currency  denominated investments;  (iv)  foreign currency  forwards  to
hedge the exposure of future payments or receipts in foreign currencies; and (v)
other   instruments  to  hedge  the  cash  flows  of  various  other  forecasted
transactions. For  all qualifying  and highly  effective cash  flow hedges,  the
effective  portion  of changes  in fair  value of  the derivative  instrument is
reported in  other comprehensive  income  or loss.  The ineffective  portion  of
changes in fair value of the derivative instrument is reported in net investment
gains  or  losses. Hedged  forecasted transactions,  other  than the  receipt or
payment of variable interest  payments, are not expected  to occur more than  12
months after hedge inception.

     The  Company designates and accounts for the following as fair value hedges
when they have met the effectiveness requirements of SFAS 133: (i) various types
of interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate
                                       F-12
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

investments to floating rate investments;  (ii) receive U.S. dollar floating  on
foreign  currency swaps  to hedge  the foreign  currency fair  value exposure of
foreign currency  denominated investments;  (iii) pay  U.S. dollar  floating  on
foreign  currency swaps  to hedge  the foreign  currency fair  value exposure of
foreign currency denominated  liabilities, and (iv)  other instruments to  hedge
various other fair value exposures of investments. For all qualifying and highly
effective  fair  value  hedges, the  changes  in  fair value  of  the derivative
instrument are reported as net investment gains or losses. In addition,  changes
in  fair value attributable  to the hedged portion  of the underlying instrument
are reported in net  investment gains and losses.  In addition, changes in  fair
value  attributable  to  the hedged  portion  of the  underlying  instrument are
reported in net investment gains and losses.

     When hedge accounting  is discontinued  because it is  determined that  the
derivative  no longer qualifies as an effective fair value hedge, the derivative
continues to be carried on the consolidated balance sheet at its fair value, but
the hedged asset or  liability will no  longer be adjusted  for changes in  fair
value.  When hedge accounting is discontinued  because the hedged item no longer
meets the  definition of  a  firm commitment,  the  derivative continues  to  be
carried  on the consolidated balance  sheet at its fair  value, and any asset or
liability that was recorded  pursuant to recognition of  the firm commitment  is
removed  from the consolidated balance sheet  and recognized as a net investment
gain or  loss in  the  current period.  When  hedge accounting  is  discontinued
because  it  is  probable that  a  forecasted  transaction will  not  occur, the
derivative continues to be carried on the consolidated balance sheet at its fair
value, and gains and losses that were accumulated in other comprehensive  income
or  loss are recognized immediately in net  investment gains or losses. When the
hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, but is reasonably possible,
the accumulated gain or loss remains  in other comprehensive income or loss  and
is  recognized  when  the  transaction  affects  net  income  or  loss; however,
prospective hedge accounting  for the  transaction is terminated.  In all  other
situations  in which hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative is carried
at its fair value on  the consolidated balance sheet,  with changes in its  fair
value recognized in the current period as net investment gains or losses.

     The  Company uses forward exchange contracts that provide an economic hedge
on portions  of  its  net  investments in  foreign  operations  against  adverse
movements  in foreign currency exchange  rates. Unrealized losses on instruments
so designated  are recorded  as components  of accumulated  other  comprehensive
income.

     The  Company may  enter into contracts  that are  not themselves derivative
instruments but contain  embedded derivatives.  For each  contract, the  Company
assesses  whether the  economic characteristics  of the  embedded derivative are
clearly and closely related to those of the host contract and determines whether
a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument would  meet
the definition of a derivative instrument.

     If  it  is  determined  that  the  embedded  derivative  possesses economic
characteristics that  are  not  clearly  and closely  related  to  the  economic
characteristics  of the host  contract, and that a  separate instrument with the
same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative  is
separated  from the host contract and accounted for as a stand-alone derivative.
Such embedded derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair
value and changes in their  fair value are recognized  in the current period  in
net  investment gains or losses.  If the Company is  unable to properly identify
and measure an embedded  derivative for separation from  its host contract,  the
entire contract is carried on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with
changes  in fair value recognized in the  current period as net investment gains
or losses.

     The Company also uses derivatives to synthetically create investments  that
are  either  more expensive  to  acquire or  otherwise  unavailable in  the cash
markets. These  securities,  called  replication  synthetic  asset  transactions
("RSATs"),  are a combination  of a credit  default swap and  a U.S. Treasury or
Agency security,  synthetically  creating  a third  replicated  security.  These
derivatives  are not designated as hedges. As  of December 31, 2003 and 2002, 24
and 16, respectively, of such RSATs, with notional amounts totaling $489 million
and $240 million, respectively, were  outstanding. The Company records both  the
premiums

                                       F-13
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

received  on the credit default swaps over the life of the contracts and changes
in their fair value in net investment gains and losses.

     The Company  enters  into  written covered  calls  to  generate  additional
investment  income on the underlying assets  it holds. These derivatives are not
designated as hedges. The Company records the premiums received over the life of
the contract and changes in fair value  of such options as net investment  gains
and losses.

  Cash and Cash Equivalents

     The  Company considers all investments  purchased with an original maturity
of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

  Property, Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer Software

     Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are included in other
assets, are  stated at  cost, less  accumulated depreciation  and  amortization.
Depreciation    is    determined    using    either    the    straight-line   or
sum-of-the-years-digits method over  the estimated useful  lives of the  assets.
The  estimated life  for company occupied  real estate property  is generally 40
years. Estimated lives range from five  to ten years for leasehold  improvements
and  three  to five  years  for all  other  property and  equipment. Accumulated
depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold  improvements
was  $527 million and $428 million at  December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Related depreciation and amortization expense was $119 million, $85 million  and
$99 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     Computer  software, which is  included in other assets,  is stated at cost,
less accumulated amortization. Purchased software costs, as well as internal and
external costs incurred  to develop  internal-use computer  software during  the
application  development  stage,  are  capitalized.  Such  costs  are  amortized
generally over a three-year period  using the straight-line method.  Accumulated
amortization  of  capitalized  software was  $432  million and  $317  million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Related amortization expense was  $150
million,  $155 million and $110  million for the years  ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs

     The costs of acquiring new and  renewal insurance business that vary  with,
and are primarily related to, the production of that business are deferred. Such
costs,  which  consist  principally  of  commissions,  agency  and  policy issue
expenses, are amortized with interest over the expected life of the contract for
participating traditional  life, universal  life and  investment-type  products.
Generally,  DAC is  amortized in  proportion to  the present  value of estimated
gross margins  or  profits  from  investment,  mortality,  expense  margins  and
surrender  charges. Interest rates are based on rates in effect at the inception
or acquisition of the contracts.

     Actual gross  margins  or  profits can  vary  from  management's  estimates
resulting  in increases  or decreases  in the  rate of  amortization. Management
utilizes the reversion to the mean assumption, a standard industry practice,  in
its  determination of  the amortization of  DAC. This practice  assumes that the
expectation for long-term equity investment appreciation is not changed by minor
short-term market  fluctuations, but  that  it does  change when  large  interim
deviations  have occurred.  Management periodically updates  these estimates and
evaluates the recoverability  of DAC. When  appropriate, management revises  its
assumptions  of the estimated  gross margins or profits  of these contracts, and
the cumulative amortization is reestimated  and adjusted by a cumulative  charge
or credit to current operations.

     DAC  for non-participating traditional life, non-medical health and annuity
policies with  life  contingencies is  amortized  in proportion  to  anticipated
premiums.  Assumptions as to anticipated premiums are made at the date of policy
issuance or acquisition  and are consistently  applied during the  lives of  the
contracts.
                                       F-14
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Deviations from estimated experience are included in operations when they occur.
For  these contracts, the amortization period is typically the estimated life of
the policy.

     Policy acquisition  costs  related  to internally  replaced  contracts  are
expensed at the date of replacement.

     DAC  for  property and  casualty  insurance contracts,  which  is primarily
comprised of commissions  and certain  underwriting expenses,  are deferred  and
amortized  on a pro rata basis over  the applicable contract term or reinsurance
treaty.

     VOBA, included  as part  of DAC,  represents the  present value  of  future
profits  generated from  existing insurance  contracts in-force  at the  date of
acquisition and is amortized  over the expected policy  or contract duration  in
relation  to  the estimated  gross profits  or premiums  from such  policies and
contracts.

  Goodwill

     The excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired  ("goodwill")
is  included  in other  assets.  On January  1,  2002, the  Company  adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, ("SFAS  142").
In  accordance  with SFAS  142,  goodwill is  not  amortized but  is  tested for
impairment at least annually to determine whether a writedown of the cost of the
asset is  required. Impairments  are recognized  in operating  results when  the
carrying  amount  of  goodwill exceeds  its  implied  fair value.  Prior  to the
adoption of SFAS  142, goodwill was  amortized on a  straight-line basis over  a
period ranging from ten to 30 years and impairments were recognized in operating
results when permanent diminution in value was deemed to have occurred.

     Changes in goodwill were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------
                                                               2003     2002     2001
                                                              ------    -----    -----
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>      <C>
Net balance at January 1....................................  $ 750     $609     $703
Acquisitions................................................      3      166       54
Amortization................................................     --       --      (47)
Impairment Losses...........................................     --       (8)     (61)
Disposition and other.......................................   (125)     (17)     (40)
                                                              -----     ----     ----
Net balance at December 31..................................  $ 628     $750     $609
                                                              =====     ====     ====
</Table>

  Recognition of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits

     Premiums  related  to  traditional  life  and  annuity  policies  with life
contingencies are recognized  as revenues  when due. Benefits  and expenses  are
provided  against such revenues to recognize profits over the estimated lives of
the policies. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the
period over  which benefits  are provided,  any excess  profit is  deferred  and
recognized  into operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or,
for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit payments.

     Premiums related to non-medical  health contracts are  recognized on a  pro
rata basis over the applicable contract term.

     Deposits  related  to  universal  life  and  investment-type  products  are
credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues from such contracts  consist
of  amounts assessed against policyholder account balances for mortality, policy
administration and surrender charges and are  recognized in the period in  which
services  are provided. Amounts that are  charged to operations include interest
credited and benefit claims incurred  in excess of related policyholder  account
balances.

                                       F-15
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Premiums  related  to property  and  casualty contracts  are  recognized as
revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term. Unearned premiums
are included in other liabilities.

  Other Revenues

     Other revenues include  asset management and  advisory fees,  broker/dealer
commissions and fees, and administrative service fees. Such fees and commissions
are  recognized in  the period in  which services are  performed. Other revenues
also include changes in account value relating to corporate-owned life insurance
("COLI"). Under certain COLI contracts, if the Company reports certain  unlikely
adverse  results in its consolidated financial statements, withdrawals would not
be immediately available and would be subject to market value adjustment,  which
could result in a reduction of the account value.

  Policyholder Dividends

     Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance subsidiaries'
boards  of directors. The aggregate amount  of policyholder dividends is related
to actual interest, mortality, morbidity and expense experience for the year, as
well as management's judgment as to  the appropriate level of statutory  surplus
to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.

 Participating Business

     Participating  business  represented  approximately  14%  and  16%  of  the
Company's life  insurance  in-force, and  57%  and 55%  of  the number  of  life
insurance  policies  in-force,  at  December 31,  2003  and  2002, respectively.
Participating policies represented approximately 38%  and 38%, 39% and 41%,  and
43%  and  45% of  gross  and net  life insurance  premiums  for the  years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002  and 2001, respectively.  The percentages indicated  are
calculated excluding the business of the Reinsurance segment.

 Income Taxes

     The  Holding  Company  and  its  includable  life  insurance  and  non-life
insurance subsidiaries file  a consolidated  U.S. federal income  tax return  in
accordance  with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the "Code"). Non-includable  subsidiaries file either  separate tax returns  or
separate  consolidated  tax returns.  The future  tax consequences  of temporary
differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and  liabilities
are  measured at the balance sheet dates and are recorded as deferred income tax
assets and liabilities.

 Reinsurance

     The Company has reinsured  certain of its life  insurance and property  and
casualty  insurance  contracts  with  other  insurance  companies  under various
agreements. Amounts due  from reinsurers  are estimated  based upon  assumptions
consistent  with  those  used in  establishing  the liabilities  related  to the
underlying reinsured  contracts. Policy  and contract  liabilities are  reported
gross  of  reinsurance  credits.  DAC  is  reduced  by  amounts  recovered under
reinsurance   contracts.   Amounts   received   from   reinsurers   for   policy
administration are reported in other revenues.

     The  Company assumes and retrocedes  financial reinsurance contracts, which
represent low mortality risk reinsurance treaties. These contracts are  reported
as  deposits and are included in other assets. The amount of revenue reported on
these contracts represents fees and the cost of insurance under the terms of the
reinsurance agreement and is reported in other revenues.

                                       F-16
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

 Separate Accounts

     Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance laws and are
generally not chargeable with liabilities that arise from any other business  of
the  Company. Separate account assets are subject to general account claims only
to the extent the value of such assets exceeds the separate account liabilities.
Investments (stated at  estimated fair  value) and liabilities  of the  separate
accounts are reported separately as assets and liabilities. Deposits to separate
accounts,  investment income and  recognized and unrealized  gains and losses on
the investments of the separate accounts accrue directly to contractholders and,
accordingly, are not reflected in the  revenues of the Company. Fees charged  to
contractholders,  principally  mortality,  policy  administration  and surrender
charges, are included in universal  life and investment-type products fees.  See
"-- Application of Recent Accounting Pronouncements."

 Stock-Based Compensation

     Effective   January  1,   2003,  the   Company  accounts   for  stock-based
compensation plans using the prospective fair value accounting method prescribed
by SFAS  No.  123, Accounting  for  Stock-Based Compensation  ("SFAS  123"),  as
amended  by SFAS 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  -- Transition and
Disclosure ("SFAS 148").

     Stock-based compensation grants prior to January 1, 2003 are accounted  for
using  the accounting method  prescribed by Accounting  Principles Board Opinion
("APB") No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ("APB 25") and Note  14
includes the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123, as amended.

 Foreign Currency

     Balance sheet accounts of foreign operations are translated at the exchange
rates  in effect at each year-end and income and expense accounts are translated
at the  average  rates  of  exchange  prevailing  during  the  year.  The  local
currencies  of foreign operations are the functional currencies unless the local
economy is highly inflationary. Translation adjustments are charged or  credited
directly  to other comprehensive  income or loss. Gains  and losses from foreign
currency transactions are reported in earnings.

 Discontinued Operations

     The results of  operations of a  component of the  Company that either  has
been  disposed of or is classified as  held-for-sale on or after January 1, 2002
are reported in discontinued operations if the operations and cash flows of  the
component  have been or  will be eliminated  from the ongoing  operations of the
Company as a result of  the disposal transaction and  the Company will not  have
any  significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after
the disposal transaction.

 Earnings Per Share

     Basic earnings per share is computed  based on the weighted average  number
of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share includes the
dilutive  effect of the  assumed: (i) conversion  of forward purchase contracts;
(ii) exercise  of  stock  options,  and  (iii)  issuance  under  deferred  stock
compensation  using the treasury stock method.  Under the treasury stock method,
forward purchase contracts,  exercise of  the stock options  and issuance  under
deferred stock compensation is assumed with the proceeds used to purchase common
stock  at the average  market price for  the period. The  difference between the
number  of  shares  assumed  issued  and  number  of  shares  assumed  purchased
represents the dilutive shares.

                                       F-17
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

 DEMUTUALIZATION AND INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

     On  April  7,  2000  (the  "date  of  demutualization"),  Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company ("Metropolitan Life") converted  from a mutual life  insurance
company  to a stock life insurance  company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary
of MetLife,  Inc. The  conversion  was pursuant  to an  order  by the  New  York
Superintendent of Insurance (the "Superintendent") approving Metropolitan Life's
plan of reorganization, as amended (the "plan").

     On  the  date of  demutualization,  policyholders' membership  interests in
Metropolitan Life  were extinguished  and  eligible policyholders  received,  in
exchange for their interests, trust interests representing 494,466,664 shares of
common  stock of MetLife, Inc. to be  held in a trust, cash payments aggregating
$2,550 million and  adjustments to  their policy values  in the  form of  policy
credits  aggregating  $408  million,  as  provided  in  the  plan.  In addition,
Metropolitan Life's Canadian branch  made cash payments of  $327 million in  the
second  quarter of  2000 to holders  of certain policies  transferred to Clarica
Life Insurance Company in connection with  the sale of a substantial portion  of
Metropolitan  Life's Canadian  operations in 1998,  as a result  of a commitment
made in connection with obtaining Canadian regulatory approval of that sale.

 APPLICATION OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     Effective December 31, 2003, the Company  adopted EITF Issue No. 03-1,  The
Meaning  of  Other-Than-Temporary  Impairment  and  Its  Application  to Certain
Investments ("EITF  03-1").  EITF  03-1  provides  guidance  on  the  disclosure
requirements  for other-than-temporary impairments of debt and marketable equity
investments that  are  accounted for  under  Statement of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  ("SFAS")  No. 115,  Accounting for  Certain  Investments in  Debt and
Equity Securities. The  adoption of EITF  03-1 requires the  Company to  include
certain  quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and marketable equity
securities classified as available-for-sale  or held-to-maturity under SFAS  115
that   are   impaired   at   the   balance  sheet   date   but   for   which  an
other-than-temporary impairment  has  not been  recognized.  (See Note  2).  The
initial  adoption of EITF 03-1, which  only required additional disclosures, did
not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") revised
SFAS No. 132,  Employers' Disclosures  about Pensions  and Other  Postretirement
Benefits  -- an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106 ("SFAS 132(r)").
SFAS 132(r) retains most of the disclosure requirements of SFAS 132 and requires
additional disclosure about  assets, obligations,  cash flows  and net  periodic
benefit  cost of defined benefit pension  plans and other defined postretirement
plans. SFAS 132(r) is primarily effective for fiscal years ending after December
15, 2003; however, certain disclosures about foreign plans and estimated  future
benefit  payments are effective for fiscal years ending after June 15, 2004. The
Company's adoption  of  SFAS  132(r)  on  December  31,  2003  did  not  have  a
significant  impact  on  its  consolidated financial  statements  since  it only
revises disclosure requirements.  In January  2004, the FASB  issued FASB  Staff
Position  ("FSP") No. 106-1,  Accounting and Disclosure  Requirements Related to
the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003  ("FSP
106-1"),  which  permits a  sponsor of  a postretirement  health care  plan that
provides a  prescription drug  benefit  to make  a  one-time election  to  defer
accounting  for the effects of  the new legislation. The  Company has elected to
defer the  accounting  until  further  guidance  is  issued  by  the  FASB.  The
measurements of the Company's postretirement accumulated benefit plan obligation
and net periodic benefit cost disclosed in Note 13 do not reflect the effects of
the  new legislation.  The guidance, when  issued, could require  the Company to
change previously reported information.

     In July 2003, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the  American
Institute  of Certified  Public Accountants  issued Statement  of Position 03-1,
Accounting and  Reporting by  Insurance Enterprises  for Certain  Nontraditional
Long-Duration  Contracts  and  for  Separate  Accounts  ("SOP  03-1").  SOP 03-1
provides guidance  on  (i) the  classification  and valuation  of  long-duration
contract  liabilities,  (ii) the  accounting  for sales  inducements,  and (iii)
separate  account   presentation   and   valuation.  SOP   03-1   is   effective
                                       F-18
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

for  fiscal years beginning after December 15,  2003. As of January 1, 2004, the
Company increased future  policyholder benefits for  various guaranteed  minimum
death  and income  benefits net  of DAC  and unearned  revenue liability offsets
under certain variable annuity and universal life contracts of approximately $40
million, net of income tax, which will  be reported as a cumulative effect of  a
change  in  accounting.  Industry  standards and  practices  continue  to evolve
relating to the valuation  of liabilities relating to  these types of  benefits,
which  may  result  in  further  adjustments  to  the  Company's  measurement of
liabilities associated  with such  benefits  in subsequent  accounting  periods.
Effective with the adoption of SOP 03-1, costs associated with enhanced or bonus
crediting  rates to contractholders will be deferred and amortized over the life
of the related contract  using assumptions consistent  with the amortization  of
DAC.  Prior  to adoption  of SOP  03-1,  the costs  associated with  these sales
inducements  have  been  deferred  and  amortized  over  the  contingent   sales
inducement  period. This provision of SOP  03-1 will be applied prospectively to
contracts. Effective January 1, 2004,  the Company reclassified $115 million  of
ownership  in its  own separate accounts  from other assets  to fixed maturities
available-for-sale and  equity securities.  This reclassification  will have  no
effect  on  net income  or other  comprehensive income.  In accordance  with SOP
03-1's revised definition of a separate account, effective January 1, 2004,  the
Company  also reclassified $1,678 million of  separate account assets to general
account investments and $1,678 million of separate account liabilities to future
policy benefits and policyholder account balances. The net cumulative effect  of
this reclassification was insignificant.

     In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments  with Characteristics of  Both Liabilities and  Equity ("SFAS 150").
SFAS 150  clarifies  the  accounting  for  certain  financial  instruments  with
characteristics   of  both  liabilities  and  equity  and  requires  that  those
instruments be classified as a liability or, in certain circumstances, an asset.
SFAS 150 is effective for financial  instruments entered into or modified  after
May  31, 2003 and otherwise  is effective at the  beginning of the first interim
period beginning after June 15,  2003. The adoption of SFAS  150, as of July  1,
2003,  required  the Company  to  reclassify $277  million  of company-obligated
mandatorily redeemable securities of subsidiary trusts from mezzanine equity  to
liabilities.

     In April 2003, the FASB cleared Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B36,
Embedded  Derivatives:  Modified Coinsurance  Arrangements and  Debt Instruments
That Incorporate  Credit Risk  Exposures That  Are Unrelated  or Only  Partially
Related  to the Creditworthiness of the  Obligor under Those Instruments ("Issue
B36"). Issue B36 concluded  that (i) a company's  funds withheld payable  and/or
receivable  under certain reinsurance  arrangements, and (ii)  a debt instrument
that incorporates credit  risk exposures  that are unrelated  or only  partially
related  to the creditworthiness  of the obligor  include an embedded derivative
feature that is not clearly and closely related to the host contract. Therefore,
the embedded derivative feature  must be measured at  fair value on the  balance
sheet  and changes in fair value reported  in income. Issue B36 became effective
on October 1,  2003 and required  the Company to  increase policyholder  account
balances  by $40 million, to decrease other invested assets by $1 million and to
increase DAC by $2  million. These amounts,  net of income  tax of $13  million,
were  recorded as a cumulative effect of a  change in accounting. As a result of
the adoption  of  Issue B36,  the  Company  recognized investment  gains  of  $9
million, net of income tax, for the three month period ended December 31, 2003.

     In  April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 149"). SFAS 149 amends  and
clarifies  the accounting  and reporting  for derivative  instruments, including
certain derivative  instruments embedded  in other  contracts, and  for  hedging
activities.  Except for certain implementation  guidance that is incorporated in
SFAS 149 and already effective, SFAS 149 is effective for contracts entered into
or modified after June 30, 2003. The  Company's adoption of SFAS 149 on July  1,
2003 did not have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.

     During  2003, the Company adopted  FASB Interpretation No. 46 Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities -- An Interpretation of ARB No. 51 ("FIN 46")  and
its  December 2003 revision ("FIN 46(r)"). Certain of the Company's asset-backed
securitizations,  collateralized   debt   obligations,   structured   investment

                                       F-19
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

transactions,  and investments in  real estate joint  ventures and other limited
partnership interests meet the definition of a variable interest entity  ("VIE")
and  must be consolidated, in accordance with the transition rules and effective
dates, if the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. A VIE is  defined
as  (i) any entity in which the equity investments at risk in such entity do not
have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, or (ii) any entity
that does not have sufficient equity  at risk to finance its activities  without
additional  subordinated support from other parties. Effective February 1, 2003,
the Company adopted FIN 46 for VIEs created or acquired on or after February  1,
2003  and,  effective December  31,  2003, the  Company  adopted FIN  46(r) with
respect to interests  in entities formerly  considered special purpose  entities
("SPEs"), including interests in asset-backed securities and collateralized debt
obligations.  In accordance  with the provisions  of FIN 46(r),  the Company has
elected to defer until March 31, 2004 the consolidation of interests in VIEs for
non SPEs  acquired  prior to  February  1, 2003  for  which it  is  the  primary
beneficiary.  The adoption  of FIN  46 as  of February  1, 2003  did not  have a
significant impact  on  the  Company's consolidated  financial  statements.  The
adoption of the provisions of FIN 46(r) at December 31, 2003 did not require the
Company   to  consolidate   any  additional   VIEs  that   were  not  previously
consolidated.

     Effective January  1, 2003,  the Company  adopted FIN  No. 45,  Guarantor's
Accounting  and  Disclosure  Requirements  for  Guarantees,  Including  Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness  of Others ("FIN  45"). FIN 45  requires entities  to
establish  liabilities  for certain  types of  guarantees and  expands financial
statement  disclosures  for   others.  The  initial   recognition  and   initial
measurement  provisions  of FIN  45  are applicable  on  a prospective  basis to
guarantees issued or modified  after December 31, 2002.  The adoption of FIN  45
did  not  have  a significant  impact  on the  Company's  consolidated financial
statements. See Note 12.

     Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 148, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation  --  Transition  and  Disclosure  ("SFAS  148"),  which
provides  guidance on how to  apply the fair value  method of accounting and use
the prospective  transition method  for  stock options  granted by  the  Company
subsequent  to December 31,  2002. As permitted under  SFAS 148, options granted
prior to January  1, 2003  will continue to  be accounted  for under  Accounting
Principles  Board  ("APB")  Opinion  No.  25,  Accounting  for  Stock  Issued to
Employees ("APB 25"), and the pro  forma impact of accounting for these  options
at  fair  value will  continue  to be  disclosed  in the  consolidated financial
statements until the last of those options vest in 2005. See Note 14.

     Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 146, Accounting for
Costs Associated  with  Exit  or  Disposal Activities  ("SFAS  146").  SFAS  146
requires  that  a liability  for  a cost  associated  with an  exit  or disposal
activity be  recorded  and  measured  initially at  fair  value  only  when  the
liability  is incurred rather than  at the date of  an entity's commitment to an
exit plan as required by EITF Issue No. 94-3, Liability Recognition for  Certain
Employee  Termination Benefits  and Other  Costs to  Exit an  Activity Including
Certain  Costs  Incurred  in  a  Restructuring  ("EITF  94-3").  The   Company's
activities subject to this guidance in 2003 were not significant.

     Effective  January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 145, Rescission of
FASB Statements No.  4, 44,  and 64,  Amendment of  FASB Statement  No. 13,  and
Technical  Corrections ("SFAS 145"). In addition to amending or rescinding other
existing authoritative  pronouncements to  make various  technical  corrections,
clarify meanings, or describe their applicability under changed conditions, SFAS
145  generally  precludes companies  from recording  gains  and losses  from the
extinguishment of  debt  as  an  extraordinary  item.  SFAS  145  also  requires
sale-leaseback  treatment  for certain  modifications  of a  capital  lease that
result in the lease being classified as an operating lease. The adoption of SFAS
145 did not have  a significant impact on  the Company's consolidated  financial
statements.

     Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144, Accounting for
the  Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets ("SFAS 144"). SFAS 144 provides
a single  model  for accounting  for  long-lived assets  to  be disposed  of  by
superseding SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and
for  Long-Lived Assets to  be Disposed Of  ("SFAS 121"), and  the accounting and
reporting
                                       F-20
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

provisions   of   APB    Opinion   No.    30,   Reporting    the   Results    of
Operations  -- Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and
Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions  ("APB
30").  Under  SFAS 144,  discontinued operations  are measured  at the  lower of
carrying value or fair value less costs to sell, rather than on a net realizable
value basis. Future  operating losses relating  to discontinued operations  also
are no longer recognized before they occur. SFAS 144 (i) broadens the definition
of  a discontinued operation to include a  component of an entity (rather than a
segment of a business); (ii) requires long-lived assets to be disposed of  other
than  by sale to be  considered held and used  until disposed; and (iii) retains
the basic provisions of  (a) APB 30 regarding  the presentation of  discontinued
operations in the statements of income, (b) SFAS 121 relating to recognition and
measurement  of impaired long-lived  assets (other than  goodwill), and (c) SFAS
121  relating   to  the   measurement  of   long-lived  assets   classified   as
held-for-sale.  Adoption  of SFAS  144 did  not  have a  material impact  on the
Company's consolidated  financial  statements  other than  the  presentation  as
discontinued  operations  of  net  investment income  and  net  investment gains
related to operations of real estate on which the Company initiated  disposition
activities  subsequent to  January 1, 2002  and the classification  of such real
estate as held-for-sale on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 20.

     Effective January  1, 2002,  the Company  adopted SFAS  No. 142.  SFAS  142
eliminates  the systematic  amortization and establishes  criteria for measuring
the impairment  of goodwill  and certain  other intangible  assets by  reporting
unit.  Amortization  of goodwill,  prior to  the  adoption of  SFAS 142  was $47
million for the year ended December  31, 2001. Amortization of other  intangible
assets  was not material for  the years ended December  31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
The  Company  completed   the  required   impairment  tests   of  goodwill   and
indefinite-lived  intangible assets in the third  quarter of 2002 and recorded a
$5 million charge  to earnings relating  to the impairment  of certain  goodwill
assets as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting. There was no impairment
of   identified  intangible  assets  or  significant  reclassifications  between
goodwill and other intangible assets at January 1, 2002.

     Effective July  1,  2001,  the  Company  adopted  SFAS  No.  141,  Business
Combinations  ("SFAS 141"). SFAS 141 requires  the purchase method of accounting
for all  business combinations  and separate  recognition of  intangible  assets
apart  from  goodwill  if  such  intangible  assets  meet  certain  criteria. In
accordance with SFAS 141, the elimination of $5 million of negative goodwill was
reported in net income in the first quarter of 2002 as a cumulative effect of  a
change in accounting.

     In  July 2001, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") released
Staff Accounting  Bulletin ("SAB")  No. 102,  Selected Loan  Loss Allowance  and
Documentation  Issues ("SAB 102"). SAB 102 summarizes certain of the SEC's views
on the development,  documentation and application  of a systematic  methodology
for determining allowances for loan and lease losses. The application of SAB 102
by  the Company  did not  have a material  impact on  the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

     Effective April 1, 2001, the Company adopted certain additional  accounting
and  reporting  requirements  of  SFAS No.  140,  Accounting  for  Transfers and
Servicing  of  Financial  Assets  and   Extinguishments  of  Liabilities  --   a
Replacement  of  FASB  Statement  No.  125,  relating  to  the  derecognition of
transferred assets and extinguished liabilities  and the reporting of  servicing
assets  and liabilities. The initial adoption of these requirements did not have
a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     Effective April 1,  2001, the  Company adopted EITF  99-20, Recognition  of
Interest  Income  and  Impairment  on  Certain  Investments.  This pronouncement
requires investors in certain asset-backed securities to record changes in their
estimated yield on a prospective basis and to apply specific evaluation  methods
to  these securities for  an other-than-temporary decline  in value. The initial
adoption of  EITF  99-20  did  not  have a  material  impact  on  the  Company's
consolidated financial statements.

     Effective  January 1, 2001, the Company  adopted SFAS 133 which established
new accounting  and reporting  standards for  derivative instruments,  including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other

                                       F-21
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

contracts,  and for hedging activities. The cumulative effect of the adoption of
SFAS 133, as of  January 1, 2001,  resulted in a $33  million increase in  other
comprehensive  income, net of income  taxes of $18 million,  and had no material
impact on net income. The increase to other comprehensive income is attributable
to net gains  on cash flow-type  hedges at transition.  Also at transition,  the
amortized cost of fixed maturities decreased and other invested assets increased
by  $22 million, representing the fair value of certain interest rate swaps that
were  accounted  for  prior  to  SFAS  133  using  fair  value-type   settlement
accounting.  During the year ended December 31, 2001, $18 million of the pre-tax
gain reported  in  accumulated  other comprehensive  income  at  transition  was
reclassified  into net investment income. The FASB continues to issue additional
guidance relating to the  accounting for derivatives under  SFAS 133, which  may
result  in  further adjustments  to the  Company's  treatment of  derivatives in
subsequent accounting periods.

2.  INVESTMENTS

  FIXED MATURITIES AND EQUITY SECURITIES

     Fixed maturities  and  equity  securities  at December  31,  2003  were  as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  COST OR    GROSS UNREALIZED
                                                 AMORTIZED   ----------------   ESTIMATED
                                                   COST        GAIN     LOSS    FAIR VALUE
                                                 ---------   --------   -----   ----------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                              <C>         <C>        <C>     <C>
Fixed Maturities:
  Bonds:
     U.S. corporate securities.................  $ 56,757    $ 3,886    $252     $ 60,391
     Mortgage-backed securities................    30,836        720     102       31,454
     Foreign corporate securities..............    21,727      2,194      79       23,842
     U.S treasuries/agencies...................    14,707      1,264      26       15,945
     Asset-backed securities...................    11,736        187      60       11,863
     Commercial mortgage-backed................    10,523        530      22       11,031
     securities Foreign government
       securities..............................     7,789      1,003      28        8,764
     States and political subdivisions.........     3,155        209      15        3,349
     Other fixed income assets.................       492        167      83          576
                                                 --------    -------    ----     --------
          Total bonds..........................   157,722     10,160     667      167,215
  Redeemable preferred stocks..................       611          2      76          537
                                                 --------    -------    ----     --------
          Total fixed maturities...............  $158,333    $10,162    $743     $167,752
                                                 ========    =======    ====     ========
Equity Securities:
  Common stocks................................  $    620    $   334    $  2     $    952
  Nonredeemable preferred stocks...............       602         48       4          646
                                                 --------    -------    ----     --------
          Total equity securities..............  $  1,222    $   382    $  6     $  1,598
                                                 ========    =======    ====     ========
</Table>

                                       F-22
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Fixed maturities  and  equity  securities  at December  31,  2002  were  as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  COST OR    GROSS UNREALIZED
                                                 AMORTIZED   -----------------   ESTIMATED
                                                   COST       GAIN      LOSS     FAIR VALUE
                                                 ---------   -------   -------   ----------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                              <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>
Fixed Maturities:
  Bonds:
     U.S. corporate securities.................  $ 47,021    $3,193    $  957     $ 49,257
     Mortgage-backed securities................    26,966     1,076        16       28,026
     Foreign corporate securities..............    18,001     1,435       207       19,229
     U.S treasuries/agencies...................    14,373     1,565         4       15,934
     Asset-backed securities...................     9,483       228       208        9,503
     Commercial mortgage-backed................     6,290       573         6        6,857
     securities Foreign government
       securities..............................     7,012       636        52        7,596
     States and political subdivisions.........     2,580       182        20        2,742
     Other fixed income assets.................       609       191       103          697
                                                 --------    ------    ------     --------
          Total bonds..........................   132,335     9,079     1,573      139,841
  Redeemable preferred stocks..................       564        --       117          447
                                                 --------    ------    ------     --------
          Total fixed maturities...............  $132,899    $9,079    $1,690     $140,288
                                                 ========    ======    ======     ========
Equity Securities:
  Common stocks................................  $    877    $  115    $   79     $    913
  Nonredeemable preferred stocks...............       679        25         4          700
                                                 --------    ------    ------     --------
          Total equity securities..............  $  1,556    $  140    $   83     $  1,613
                                                 ========    ======    ======     ========
</Table>

     The  Company  held foreign  currency derivatives  with notional  amounts of
$4,273 million and  $2,371 million to  hedge the exchange  rate risk  associated
with foreign bonds and loans at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     The  Company held fixed maturities at estimated fair values that were below
investment grade  or not  rated by  an independent  rating agency  that  totaled
$12,825 million and $11,619 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
These  securities had a net  unrealized gain of $888 million  and a loss of $422
million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Non-income producing  fixed
maturities  were $371 million  and $479 million  at December 31,  2003 and 2002,
respectively.

                                       F-23
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The cost or amortized  cost and estimated fair  value of bonds at  December
31,  2003, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled sinking funds), are
shown below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               COST OR
                                                              AMORTIZED   ESTIMATED
                                                                COST      FAIR VALUE
                                                              ---------   ----------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Due in one year or less.....................................  $  5,381     $  5,542
Due after one year through five years.......................    30,893       32,431
Due after five years through ten years......................    29,342       31,830
Due after ten years.........................................    39,011       43,064
                                                              --------     --------
     Subtotal...............................................   104,627      112,867
Mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities...........    53,095       54,348
                                                              --------     --------
     Subtotal...............................................   157,722      167,215
Redeemable preferred stock..................................       611          537
                                                              --------     --------
     Total fixed maturities.................................  $158,333     $167,752
                                                              ========     ========
</Table>

     Bonds not due at  a single maturity  date have been  included in the  above
table  in  the  year  of  final  maturity.  Actual  maturities  may  differ from
contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options.

     Sales  of   fixed   maturities   and  equity   securities   classified   as
available-for-sale were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                       ------------------------------
                                                         2002       2001       2000
                                                       --------   --------   --------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
Proceeds.............................................  $ 54,801   $ 37,427   $ 28,105
Gross investment gains...............................  $    498   $  1,661   $    646
Gross investment losses..............................  $   (500)  $   (979)  $   (948)
</Table>

     Gross investment losses above exclude writedowns recorded during 2003, 2002
and 2001 for other-than-temporarily impaired available-for-sale fixed maturities
and  equity  securities  of  $355  million,  $1,375  million  and  $278 million,
respectively.

     Excluding investments in U.S. Treasury  securities and obligations of  U.S.
government  corporations  and  agencies,  the  Company  is  not  exposed  to any
significant concentration of credit risk in its fixed maturities portfolio.

                                       F-24
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table shows  the estimated fair  values and gross  unrealized
losses  of the  Company's fixed maturities,  aggregated by sector  and length of
time that the securities have been  in a continuous unrealized loss position  at
December 31, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            EQUAL TO OR GREATER
                                   LESS THAN 12 MONTHS         THAN 12 MONTHS               TOTAL
                                  ----------------------   ----------------------   ----------------------
                                  ESTIMATED     GROSS      ESTIMATED     GROSS      ESTIMATED     GROSS
                                    FAIR      UNREALIZED     FAIR      UNREALIZED     FAIR      UNREALIZED
                                    VALUE        LOSS        VALUE        LOSS        VALUE        LOSS
                                  ---------   ----------   ---------   ----------   ---------   ----------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                               <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
U.S. corporate securities.......   $ 7,214       $152       $1,056        $100       $ 8,270       $252
Mortgage-backed securities......     8,372         98           27           4         8,399        102
Foreign corporate securities....     2,583         65          355          14         2,938         79
U.S treasuries/agencies.........     3,697         26           --          --         3,697         26
Asset-backed securities.........     2,555         34          861          26         3,416         60
Commercial mortgage-backed
  securities....................     2,449         20          282           2         2,731         22
Foreign government securities...       331         28            2          --           333         28
States and political
  subdivisions..................       389         12           38           3           427         15
Other fixed income assets.......       130         73           40          10           170         83
                                   -------       ----       ------        ----       -------       ----
     Total bonds................    27,720        508        2,661         159        30,381        667
Redeemable preferred stocks.....       222         62          278          14           500         76
                                   -------       ----       ------        ----       -------       ----
     Total fixed maturities.....   $27,942       $570       $2,939        $173       $30,881       $743
                                   =======       ====       ======        ====       =======       ====
</Table>

     At December 31, 2003, the Company had gross unrealized losses of $6 million
from  equity securities that  had been in  an unrealized loss  position for less
than twelve months. The amount of unrealized losses from equity securities  that
had  been in an  unrealized loss position  for twelve months  or greater is less
than $1 million at December 31, 2003. The fair value of those equity  securities
that had been in an unrealized loss position for less than twelve months and for
twelve  months or greater at December 31,  2003, is $53 million and $22 million,
respectively.

  SECURITIES LENDING PROGRAM

     The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks  of
securities,  which are  included in  investments, are  loaned to  third parties,
primarily major brokerage firms. The Company  requires a minimum of 102% of  the
fair  value of the  loaned securities to be  separately maintained as collateral
for the loans. Securities with a cost  or amortized cost of $25,121 million  and
$16,196  million  and an  estimated fair  value of  $26,387 million  and $17,625
million were  on  loan  under  the  program  at  December  31,  2003  and  2002,
respectively.  The Company was  liable for cash collateral  under its control of
$27,083 million and $17,862 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Security collateral on deposit from customers  may not be sold or repledged  and
is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements.

     ASSETS ON DEPOSIT AND HELD IN TRUST

     The  Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory agencies with
a fair market value of $1,353 million and $975 million at December 31, 2003  and
2002,  respectively.  Company securities  held  in trust  to  satisfy collateral
requirements had  an amortized  cost of  $2,276 million  and $1,949  million  at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

                                       F-25
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE

     Mortgage loans on real estate were categorized as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               DECEMBER 31,
                                                   -------------------------------------
                                                         2003                2002
                                                   -----------------   -----------------
                                                   AMOUNT    PERCENT   AMOUNT    PERCENT
                                                   -------   -------   -------   -------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Commercial mortgage loans........................  $20,422      78%    $19,671      78%
Agricultural mortgage loans......................    5,333      20       5,152      20
Residential mortgage loans.......................      623       2         389       2
                                                   -------     ---     -------     ---
     Total.......................................   26,378     100%     25,212     100%
                                                               ===                 ===
Less: Valuation allowances.......................      129                 126
                                                   -------             -------
     Mortgage loans..............................  $26,249             $25,086
                                                   =======             =======
</Table>

     Mortgage  loans on real  estate are collateralized  by properties primarily
located throughout the United States.  At December 31, 2003, approximately  21%,
7%  and 7% of the  properties were located in  California, New York and Florida,
respectively. Generally, the Company (as the lender) requires that a minimum  of
one-fourth  of the purchase price  of the underlying real  estate be paid by the
borrower.

     Certain of the  Company's real  estate joint ventures  have mortgage  loans
with  the Company. The carrying  values of such mortgages  were $639 million and
$620 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     Changes in mortgage loan valuation allowances were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------------
                                                               2003      2002      2001
                                                              ------    ------    ------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Balance at January 1........................................   $126      $144      $ 83
Additions...................................................     52        41       106
Deductions..................................................    (49)      (59)      (45)
                                                               ----      ----      ----
Balance at December 31......................................   $129      $126      $144
                                                               ====      ====      ====
</Table>

     A portion of the Company's mortgage  loans on real estate was impaired  and
consisted of the following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                               2003          2002
                                                              -------       -------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Impaired mortgage loans with valuation allowances...........   $296          $627
Impaired mortgage loans without valuation allowances........    165           261
                                                               ----          ----
     Total..................................................    461           888
Less: Valuation allowances on impaired mortgages............     62           125
                                                               ----          ----
     Impaired mortgage loans................................   $399          $763
                                                               ====          ====
</Table>

     The  average investment in impaired mortgage  loans on real estate was $652
million, $1,088 million and $947 million for the years ended December 31,  2003,
2002  and 2001, respectively. Interest income on impaired mortgage loans was $58
million, $91 million  and $103 million  for the years  ended December 31,  2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

                                       F-26
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The  investment  in restructured  mortgage loans  on  real estate  was $191
million and $414 million at December  31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Interest
income   of  $19  million,  $44  million  and  $76  million  was  recognized  on
restructured loans  for  the years  ended  December  31, 2003,  2002  and  2001,
respectively.  Gross interest income that would have been recorded in accordance
with the original terms of such loans  amounted to $24 million, $41 million  and
$60 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     Mortgage  loans on real estate with scheduled  payments of 60 days (90 days
for agriculture mortgages) or more past  due or in foreclosure had an  amortized
cost of $51 million and $40 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

  REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURES

     Real estate and real estate joint ventures consisted of the following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------
                                                                2003         2002
                                                              ---------    ---------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Real estate and real estate joint ventures
  held-for-investment.......................................   $4,997       $4,197
Impairments.................................................     (283)        (271)
                                                               ------       ------
     Total..................................................    4,714        3,926
                                                               ------       ------
Real estate held-for-sale...................................      101          815
Impairments.................................................       --           (5)
Valuation allowance.........................................      (12)         (11)
                                                               ------       ------
     Total..................................................       89          799
                                                               ------       ------
       Real estate and real estate joint ventures...........   $4,803       $4,725
                                                               ======       ======
</Table>

     Accumulated  depreciation  on real  estate  was $1,955  million  and $1,951
million at December 31,  2003 and 2002,  respectively. The related  depreciation
expense  was $183  million, $227  million and $220  million for  the years ended
December 31,  2003,  2002 and  2001,  respectively. These  amounts  include  $15
million,  $66  million  and  $93  million  of  depreciation  expense  related to
discontinued operations for the  years ended December 31,  2003, 2002 and  2001,
respectively.

     Real estate and real estate joint ventures were categorized as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                DECEMBER 31,
                                                     -----------------------------------
                                                           2003               2002
                                                     ----------------   ----------------
                                                     AMOUNT   PERCENT   AMOUNT   PERCENT
                                                     ------   -------   ------   -------
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                  <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>
Office.............................................  $2,775      58%    $2,733      58%
Retail.............................................     667      14        699      15
Apartments.........................................     861      18        835      18
Land...............................................      81       2         87       2
Agriculture........................................       1       -          7       -
Other..............................................     418       8        364       7
                                                     ------     ---     ------     ---
     Total.........................................  $4,803     100%    $4,725     100%
                                                     ======     ===     ======     ===
</Table>

                                       F-27
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The  Company's real  estate holdings  are primarily  located throughout the
United States.  At December  31, 2003,  approximately 28%,  17% and  16% of  the
Company's  real  estate  holdings  were  located  in  New  York,  California and
Illinois, respectively.

     Changes in  real  estate  and  real  estate  joint  ventures  held-for-sale
valuation allowance were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------------
                                                               2003      2002      2001
                                                              ------    ------    ------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Balance at January 1........................................   $ 11      $ 35      $ 39
Additions charged to investment income......................     17        21        16
Deductions for writedowns and dispositions..................    (16)      (45)      (20)
                                                               ----      ----      ----
Balance at December 31......................................   $ 12      $ 11      $ 35
                                                               ====      ====      ====
</Table>

     Investment  income related  to impaired real  estate and  real estate joint
ventures held-for-investment was $35  million, $48 million  and $34 million  for
the  years ended December  31, 2003, 2002  and 2001, respectively.  There was no
investment income related to impaired real estate and real estate joint ventures
held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2003. Investment income related to
impaired real estate and real estate joint ventures held-for-sale was $3 million
and $19 million for  the years ended December  31, 2002 and 2001,  respectively.
The  carrying value  of non-income producing  real estate and  real estate joint
ventures was  $77  million  and $63  million  at  December 31,  2003  and  2002,
respectively.

     The  Company  owned real  estate  acquired in  satisfaction  of debt  of $3
million and $10 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

  LEVERAGED LEASES

     Leveraged leases,  included  in other  invested  assets, consisted  of  the
following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------
                                                                2003         2002
                                                              ---------    ---------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Investment..................................................   $  974       $  985
Estimated residual values...................................      386          428
                                                               ------       ------
     Total..................................................    1,360        1,413
Unearned income.............................................     (380)        (368)
                                                               ------       ------
     Leveraged leases.......................................   $  980       $1,045
                                                               ======       ======
</Table>

     The  investment  amounts  set  forth above  are  generally  due  in monthly
installments. The payment periods generally range  from one to 15 years, but  in
certain  circumstances are as long as  30 years. These receivables are generally
collateralized by the  related property.  The Company's  deferred tax  liability
related  to leveraged leases was  $870 million and $981  million at December 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively.

                                       F-28
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  NET INVESTMENT INCOME

     The components of net investment income were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ---------------------------
                                                           2003      2002      2001
                                                          -------   -------   -------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Fixed maturities........................................  $ 8,817   $ 8,367   $ 8,562
Equity securities.......................................       31        43        62
Mortgage loans on real estate...........................    1,903     1,883     1,848
Real estate and real estate joint ventures(1)...........      982       971       845
Policy loans............................................      554       543       536
Other limited partnership interests.....................       75        57        48
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.......      171       252       279
Other...................................................      206       185       225
                                                          -------   -------   -------
     Total..............................................   12,739    12,301    12,405
Less: Investment expenses(1)............................    1,103     1,040     1,218
                                                          -------   -------   -------
     Net investment income..............................  $11,636   $11,261   $11,187
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

---------------

(1) Excludes  amounts  related  to   real  estate  held-for-sale  presented   as
    discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS 144.

  NET INVESTMENT GAINS (LOSSES)

     Net  investment gains (losses), including  changes in valuation allowances,
and related policyholder amounts were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------
                                                               2003     2002     2001
                                                              ------   ------   ------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>      <C>
Fixed maturities............................................  $(398)   $(917)   $(645)
Equity securities...........................................     41      224       65
Mortgage loans on real estate...............................    (56)     (22)     (91)
Real estate and real estate joint ventures(1)...............     19       (6)      (4)
Other limited partnership interests.........................    (84)      (2)    (161)
Sales of businesses.........................................     --       --       25
Derivatives(2)..............................................   (134)    (140)     124
Other.......................................................     39      (33)     (26)
                                                              -----    -----    -----
     Total..................................................   (573)    (896)    (713)
Amounts allocated from:
  Deferred policy acquisition costs.........................     31       (5)     (25)
  Participating contracts...................................     40       (7)      --
  Policyholder dividend obligation..........................    144      157      159
                                                              -----    -----    -----
          Total net investment gains (losses)...............  $(358)   $(751)   $(579)
                                                              =====    =====    =====
</Table>

                                       F-29
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

---------------

(1) The amounts  presented  exclude amounts  related  to sales  of  real  estate
    held-for-sale  presented as discontinued operations  in accordance with SFAS
    144.

(2) The amounts  presented include  scheduled  periodic settlement  payments  on
    derivative  instruments that do not qualify  for hedge accounting under SFAS
    133.

     Investment gains and losses  are net of  related policyholder amounts.  The
amounts  netted against investment gains and  losses are (i) amortization of DAC
to the extent that such amortization  results from investment gains and  losses;
(ii)  adjustments to participating contractholder accounts when amounts equal to
such investment gains and losses  are applied to the contractholder's  accounts;
and  (iii) adjustments  to the  policyholder dividend  obligation resulting from
investment gains  and  losses.  This  presentation  may  not  be  comparable  to
presentations made by other insurers.

  NET UNREALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS

     The  components of net unrealized investment gains, included in accumulated
other comprehensive income, were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ---------------------------
                                                           2003      2002      2001
                                                          -------   -------   -------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Fixed maturities........................................  $ 9,204   $ 7,360   $ 3,097
Equity securities.......................................      376        57       617
Derivatives.............................................     (427)      (24)       71
Other invested assets...................................      (33)       16        59
                                                          -------   -------   -------
     Total..............................................    9,120     7,409     3,844
                                                          -------   -------   -------
Amounts allocated from:
  Future policy benefit loss recognition................   (1,482)   (1,269)      (30)
  Deferred policy acquisition costs.....................     (674)     (559)      (21)
  Participating contracts...............................     (183)     (153)     (127)
  Policyholder dividend obligation......................   (2,130)   (1,882)     (708)
Deferred income taxes...................................   (1,679)   (1,264)   (1,079)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
     Total..............................................   (6,148)   (5,127)   (1,965)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          Net unrealized investment gains...............  $ 2,972   $ 2,282   $ 1,879
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                       F-30
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The changes in net unrealized investment gains were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            -------------------------
                                                             2003     2002      2001
                                                            ------   -------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>       <C>
Balance at January 1......................................  $2,282   $ 1,879   $1,175
Unrealized investment gains (losses) during the year......   1,711     3,565    1,365
Unrealized investment gains (losses) relating to:
  Future policy benefit gains (losses) recognition........    (213)   (1,239)     254
  Deferred policy acquisition costs.......................    (115)     (538)    (140)
  Participating contracts.................................     (30)      (26)       6
  Policyholder dividend obligation........................    (248)   (1,174)    (323)
Deferred income taxes.....................................    (415)     (185)    (458)
                                                            ------   -------   ------
Balance at December 31....................................  $2,972   $ 2,282   $1,879
                                                            ======   =======   ======
Net change in unrealized investment gains.................  $  690   $   403   $  704
                                                            ======   =======   ======
</Table>

  STRUCTURED INVESTMENT TRANSACTIONS

     The Company securitizes high yield debt securities, investment grade  bonds
and   structured   finance   securities.   The   Company   has   sponsored  four
securitizations with a total of approximately $1,431 million in financial assets
as of December 31, 2003. The Company's beneficial interests in these SPEs as  of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the related investment income for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were insignificant.

     The  Company also invests in structured notes and similar type instruments,
which generally provide  equity-based returns on  debt securities. The  carrying
value  of such  investments was approximately  $880 million and  $870 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The related income recognized was  $78
million,  $1 million and $44 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001, respectively.

  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

     As discussed in Note 1,  the Company has adopted  the provisions of FIN  46
and  FIN 46(r). At December  31, 2003, FIN 46(r) did  not require the Company to
consolidate any additional VIEs that were not previously consolidated.

     The following table presents  the total assets of  and maximum exposure  to
loss  relating to VIEs  for which the Company  has concluded that  (i) it is the
primary   beneficiary    and    which    will    be    consolidated    in    the

                                       F-31
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Company's  financial  statements beginning  March 31,  2004,  and (ii)  it holds
significant valuable interests but it is  not the primary beneficiary and  which
will not be consolidated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                       DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                                       -------------------------------------------------
                                                       PRIMARY BENEFICIARY(1)    NOT PRIMARY BENEFICIARY
                                                       -----------------------   -----------------------
                                                                      MAXIMUM                   MAXIMUM
                                                                     EXPOSURE                  EXPOSURE
                                                          TOTAL         TO          TOTAL         TO
                                                        ASSETS(2)     LOSS(3)     ASSETS(2)     LOSS(3)
                                                       -----------   ---------   -----------   ---------
                                                                     (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>
SPES:
Asset-backed securitizations and Collateralized debt
  obligations........................................     $ --         $ --         $2,400        $20
NON-SPES:
Real estate joint ventures(4)........................      617          238             42         59
Other limited partnerships(5)........................       29           27            459         10
                                                          ----         ----         ------        ---
Total................................................     $646         $265         $2,901        $89
                                                          ====         ====         ======        ===
</Table>

---------------

(1) Had the Company consolidated these VIEs at December 31, 2003, the transition
    adjustments would have been $10 million, net of income tax.

(2) The  assets  of  the asset-backed  securitizations  and  collateralized debt
    obligations are reflected at fair value as of December 31, 2003. The  assets
    of  the  real  estate  joint ventures  and  other  limited  partnerships are
    reflected at  the carrying  amounts at  which such  assets would  have  been
    reflected  on the Company's  balance sheet had  the Company consolidated the
    VIE from the date of its initial investment in the entity.

(3) The maximum  exposure  to  loss  of  the  asset-backed  securitizations  and
    collateralized debt obligations is equal to the carrying amounts of retained
    interests.  In addition, the Company provides collateral management services
    for certain of these structures for which it collects a management fee.  The
    maximum  exposure to loss  relating to real estate  joint ventures and other
    limited partnerships  is equal  to the  carrying amounts  plus any  unfunded
    commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other partners.

(4) Real  estate joint ventures  include partnerships and  other ventures, which
    engage in  the acquisition,  development, management  and disposal  of  real
    estate investments.

(5) Other  limited partnerships include partnerships established for the purpose
    of investing in public  and private debt and  equity securities, as well  as
    limited  partnerships established for the purpose of investing in low-income
    housing that qualifies for federal tax credits.

                                       F-32
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

3.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The table below  provides a summary  of notional amount  and fair value  of
derivative financial instruments held at December 31, 2003 and 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                              2003                              2002
                                 -------------------------------   -------------------------------
                                               CURRENT MARKET                    CURRENT MARKET
                                               OR FAIR VALUE                     OR FAIR VALUE
                                 NOTIONAL   --------------------   NOTIONAL   --------------------
                                  AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES    AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES
                                 --------   ------   -----------   --------   ------   -----------
                                                     (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                              <C>        <C>      <C>           <C>        <C>      <C>
Financial futures..............  $ 1,348     $  8       $ 30       $     4     $ --       $ --
Interest rate swaps............    9,944      189         36         3,866      196        126
Floors.........................      325        5         --           325        9         --
Caps...........................    9,345       29         --         8,040       --         --
Financial forwards.............    1,310        2          3         1,945       --         12
Foreign currency swaps.........    4,710        9        796         2,371       92        181
Options........................    6,065        7         --         6,472        9         --
Foreign currency forwards......      695        5         32            54       --          1
Credit default swaps...........      615        2          1           376        2         --
                                 -------     ----       ----       -------     ----       ----
     Total contractual
       commitments.............  $34,357     $256       $898       $23,453     $308       $320
                                 =======     ====       ====       =======     ====       ====
</Table>

     The  following is  a reconciliation of  the notional  amounts by derivative
type and strategy at December 31, 2003 and 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                DECEMBER 31, 2002               TERMINATIONS/   DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                 NOTIONAL AMOUNT    ADDITIONS    MATURITIES      NOTIONAL AMOUNT
                                -----------------   ---------   -------------   -----------------
                                                      (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                             <C>                 <C>         <C>             <C>
BY DERIVATIVE TYPE
Financial futures.............       $     4         $ 2,208       $  864            $ 1,348
Interest rate swaps...........         3,866           8,063        1,985              9,944
Floors........................           325              --           --                325
Caps..........................         8,040           3,000        1,695              9,345
Financial forwards............         1,945           1,310        1,945              1,310
Foreign currency swaps........         2,371           2,534          195              4,710
Options.......................         6,472              --          407              6,065
Foreign currency forwards.....            54             663           22                695
Written covered calls.........            --           1,178        1,178                 --
Credit default swaps..........           376             284           45                615
                                     -------         -------       ------            -------
     Total contractual
       commitments............       $23,453         $19,240       $8,336            $34,357
                                     =======         =======       ======            =======
BY DERIVATIVE STRATEGY
Liability hedging.............       $ 8,954         $ 5,386       $1,952            $12,388
Invested asset hedging........         5,411           7,295        1,823             10,883
Portfolio hedging.............         9,028           2,443        4,539              6,932
Firm commitments and
  forecasted transactions.....            60           3,589           22              3,627
Hedging net investments in
  foreign operations..........            --             527           --                527
                                     -------         -------       ------            -------
     Total contractual
       commitments............       $23,453         $19,240       $8,336            $34,357
                                     =======         =======       ======            =======
</Table>

                                       F-33
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table presents the  notional amounts of derivative  financial
instruments by maturity at December 31, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            REMAINING LIFE
                             -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ONE YEAR     AFTER ONE YEAR     AFTER FIVE YEARS
                             OR LESS    THROUGH FIVE YEARS   THROUGH TEN YEARS   AFTER TEN YEARS    TOTAL
                             --------   ------------------   -----------------   ---------------   -------
                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                          <C>        <C>                  <C>                 <C>               <C>
Financial futures..........  $ 1,348         $    --              $   --             $   --        $ 1,348
Interest rate swaps........      242           6,343               1,693              1,666          9,944
Floors.....................       --              --                 325                 --            325
Caps.......................    3,150           6,195                  --                 --          9,345
Financial forwards.........    1,310              --                  --                 --          1,310
Foreign currency swaps.....      327           1,676               2,271                436          4,710
Options....................    4,163           1,901                  --                  1          6,065
Foreign currency
  forwards.................      695              --                  --                 --            695
Written covered calls......       --              --                  --                 --             --
Credit default swaps.......      189             426                  --                 --            615
                             -------         -------              ------             ------        -------
     Total contractual
       commitments.........  $11,424         $16,541              $4,289             $2,103        $34,357
                             =======         =======              ======             ======        =======
</Table>

     The  following  table  presents the  notional  amounts and  fair  values of
derivatives by type of hedge designation at December 31, 2003 and 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                              2003                              2002
                                 -------------------------------   -------------------------------
                                                 FAIR VALUE                        FAIR VALUE
                                 NOTIONAL   --------------------   NOTIONAL   --------------------
                                  AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES    AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES
                                 --------   ------   -----------   --------   ------   -----------
                                                     (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                              <C>        <C>      <C>           <C>        <C>      <C>
BY TYPE OF HEDGE
Fair value.....................  $ 4,027     $ 27       $297       $   420     $ --       $ 64
Cash flow......................   13,173       59        449         3,520       69         73
Foreign operations                   527       --         10            --       --         --
Non qualifying.................   16,630      170        142        19,513      239        183
                                 -------     ----       ----       -------     ----       ----
     Total.....................  $34,357     $256       $898       $23,453     $308       $320
                                 =======     ====       ====       =======     ====       ====
</Table>

     The Company  recognized  net investment  expense  of $63  million  and  net
investment  income of $9 million and $9 million, from the periodic settlement of
interest rate caps and interest rate, foreign currency and credit default  swaps
that  qualify as accounting hedges under SFAS No. 133, as amended, for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     During the years ended  December 31 2003 and  2002, the Company  recognized
$191  million and $30 million, respectively, in net investment losses related to
qualifying fair value  hedging instruments.  Accordingly, $159  million and  $34
million of net unrealized gains on fair value hedged investments were recognized
in  net investment gains and losses during the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002, respectively.  There were  no discontinued  fair value  hedges during  the
years  ended December 31, 2003 or 2002.  There were no derivatives designated as
fair value hedges during the year ended December 31, 2001.

     For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, the net amounts accumulated
in other comprehensive income relating to  cash flow hedges were losses of  $417
million and $24 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002,  the  market value  of  cash flow  hedges  decreased by  $456  million and

                                       F-34
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$145  million, respectively. During the years  ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,
the Company recognized other comprehensive net  losses of $387 million and  $142
million,  respectively, relating to  the effective portion  of cash flow hedges.
During the  year ended  December 31,  2003, other  comprehensive expense  of  $2
million  was  reclassified  to  net investment  income.  During  the  year ended
December 31, 2002 other comprehensive losses of $57 million were reclassified to
net investment losses. During  the year ended  December 31, 2003,  insignificant
amounts  were recognized in  net investment losses  related to discontinued cash
flow hedges. During the  years ended December  31, 2002 and  2001, no cash  flow
hedges  were discontinued. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
$8 million,  $10 million  and  $19 million  of  other comprehensive  income  was
reclassified  to net  investment income, respectively,  related to  the SFAS 133
transition adjustment.

     Approximately $2 million of net investment  expense and $40 million of  net
losses  reported in accumulated other comprehensive  income at December 31, 2003
are expected to be  reclassified during the year  ending December 31, 2004  into
net  investment income and net investment loss, respectively, as the derivatives
and underlying investments mature or expire according to their original terms.

     For the  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002  and  2001,  the  Company
recognized  as net investment gains,  the scheduled periodic settlement payments
on  derivative  instruments  of  $84  million,  $32  million  and  $24  million,
respectively,  and  net investment  losses from  changes in  fair value  of $218
million and $172 million and net investment gains of $100 million, respectively,
related to derivatives not qualifying as accounting hedges.

     The Company uses forward exchange contracts that provide an economic  hedge
on  portions  of  its  net investments  in  foreign  operations  against adverse
movements in foreign currency  exchange rates. For the  year ended December  31,
2003,  the Company  experienced net  unrealized foreign  currency losses  of $10
million related to hedges  of its net investments  in foreign operations.  These
unrealized losses were recorded as components of accumulated other comprehensive
income.

                                       F-35
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4.  INSURANCE

  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

     Information  regarding VOBA and DAC for  the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001 is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                      DEFERRED
                                                          VALUE OF     POLICY
                                                          BUSINESS   ACQUISITION
                                                          ACQUIRED      COSTS       TOTAL
                                                          --------   -----------   -------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>           <C>
Balance at December 31, 2000............................   $1,674      $ 8,944     $10,618
Capitalizations.........................................       --        2,039       2,039
Acquisitions............................................      124           --         124
                                                           ------      -------     -------
     Total..............................................    1,798       10,983      12,781
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Amortization allocated to:
  Net investment gains (losses).........................      (15)          40          25
  Unrealized investment gains (losses)..................        8          132         140
  Other expenses........................................      126        1,287       1,413
                                                           ------      -------     -------
     Total amortization.................................      119        1,459       1,578
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Dispositions and other..................................       (1)         (35)        (36)
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Balance at December 31, 2001............................    1,678        9,489      11,167
Capitalizations.........................................                 2,340       2,340
Acquisitions............................................      369           --         369
                                                           ------      -------     -------
     Total..............................................    2,047       11,829      13,876
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Amortization allocated to:
  Net investment gains (losses).........................       16          (11)          5
  Unrealized investment gains (losses)..................      154          384         538
  Other expenses........................................      132        1,507       1,639
                                                           ------      -------     -------
     Total amortization.................................      302        1,880       2,182
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Dispositions and other..................................       (6)          39          33
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Balance at December 31, 2002............................    1,739        9,988      11,727
Capitalizations.........................................       --        2,792       2,792
Acquisitions............................................       40          218         258
                                                           ------      -------     -------
     Total..............................................    1,779       12,998      14,777
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Amortization allocated to:
  Net investment gains (losses).........................       (7)         (24)        (31)
  Unrealized investment gains (losses)..................      (31)         146         115
  Other expenses........................................      162        1,656       1,818
                                                           ------      -------     -------
     Total amortization.................................      124        1,778       1,902
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Dispositions and other..................................        2           66          68
                                                           ------      -------     -------
Balance at December 31, 2003............................   $1,657      $11,286     $12,943
                                                           ======      =======     =======
</Table>

     The estimated future amortization expense  allocated to other expenses  for
VOBA  is $135 million in 2004, $128 million  in 2005, $122 million in 2006, $117
million in 2007 and $114 million in 2008.

     Amortization of  VOBA and  DAC is  allocated to  (i) investment  gains  and
losses  to provide  consolidated statement  of income  information regarding the
impact   of    such    gains    and    losses   on    the    amount    of    the

                                       F-36
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

amortization, (ii) unrealized investment gains and losses to provide information
regarding the amount that would have been amortized if such gains and losses had
been  recognized, and  (iii) other  expenses to  provide amounts  related to the
gross margins or  profits originating  from transactions  other than  investment
gains and losses.

     Investment  gains  and losses  related to  certain  products have  a direct
impact on the  amortization of  VOBA and  DAC. Presenting  investment gains  and
losses  net of related amortization of  VOBA and DAC provides information useful
in evaluating the operating  performance of the  Company. This presentation  may
not be comparable to presentations made by other insurers.

  FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND POLICYHOLDER ACCOUNT BALANCES

     Future  policy  benefit  liabilities  for  participating  traditional  life
insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of (i) net level premium  reserves
for death and endowment policy benefits (calculated based upon the nonforfeiture
interest  rate,  ranging  from 3%  to  11%,  and mortality  rates  guaranteed in
calculating the cash  surrender values  described in such  contracts), (ii)  the
liability  for terminal dividends, and  (iii) premium deficiency reserves, which
are established when the liabilities for future policy benefits plus the present
value of expected future gross premiums are insufficient to provide for expected
future policy benefits and expenses after DAC is written off.

     Future policy benefit  liabilities for traditional  annuities are equal  to
accumulated  contractholder fund balances during the accumulation period and the
present value of  expected future payments  after annuitization. Interest  rates
used  in  establishing such  liabilities  range from  2%  to 11%.  Future policy
benefit liabilities for  non-medical health insurance  are calculated using  the
net level premium method and assumptions as to future morbidity, withdrawals and
interest,  which provide a margin for  adverse deviation. Interest rates used in
establishing such  liabilities  range from  3%  to 11%.  Future  policy  benefit
liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits
method  and  experience  assumptions  as  to  claim  terminations,  expenses and
interest. Interest rates used in establishing such liabilities range from 3%  to
11%.

     Policyholder  account  balances  for  universal  life  and  investment-type
contracts  are  equal  to  the  policy  account  values,  which  consist  of  an
accumulation  of gross premium payments plus  credited interest, ranging from 1%
to 13%, less expenses, mortality charges, and withdrawals.

     The liability  for  unpaid  claims  and claim  expenses  for  property  and
casualty  insurance represents  the amount estimated  for claims  that have been
reported but not settled and claims  incurred but not reported. Liabilities  for
unpaid  claims are estimated based upon  the Company's historical experience and
other actuarial assumptions that consider  the effects of current  developments,
anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage
and  subrogation. Revisions of these estimates are included in operations in the
year such refinements are made.

  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

     Separate accounts include two  categories of account types:  non-guaranteed
separate  accounts totaling $59,278 million and  $44,470 million at December 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively, for  which the policyholder assumes the  investment
risk,  and  guaranteed separate  accounts totaling  $16,478 million  and $15,223
million at  December 31,  2003 and  2002, respectively,  for which  the  Company
contractually  guarantees  either  a  minimum return  or  account  value  to the
policyholder.

     Fees charged to the separate  accounts by the Company (including  mortality
charges,  policy administration fees and surrender charges) are reflected in the
Company's revenues as universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
totaled $626 million, $542 million and $559 million for the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002  and 2001, respectively.  Guaranteed separate accounts  consisted
primarily  of  Met  Managed  Guaranteed  Interest  Contracts  and  participating
close-out contracts. The average interest rates credited on
                                       F-37
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

these contracts were 4.5% and 4.8% at December 31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.
The  assets that support these liabilities were comprised of $13,513 million and
$12,984 million in fixed maturities at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

5.  REINSURANCE

     The  Company's  life  insurance   operations  participate  in   reinsurance
activities  in order to limit  losses, minimize exposure to  large risks, and to
provide additional capacity for future  growth. The Company currently  reinsures
up  to 90% of the mortality risk  for all new individual life insurance policies
that it writes through  its various franchises. This  practice was initiated  by
different  franchises for different products starting  at various points in time
between 1992 and 2000. Risks  in excess of $25  million on single life  policies
and  $30 million  on survivorship policies  are 100% coinsured.  In addition, in
1998, the  Company reinsured  substantially all  of the  mortality risk  on  its
universal  life policies issued since 1983. RGA  retains a maximum of $6 million
of coverage  per  individual  life  with  respect  to  its  assumed  reinsurance
business.  The Company  reinsures its  business through  a diversified  group of
reinsurers. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and
also on a facultative basis for  risks of specific characteristics. The  Company
is contingently liable with respect to ceded reinsurance should any reinsurer be
unable to meet its obligations under these agreements.

     In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, the Company reinsures other risks
and specific coverages. The Company routinely reinsures certain classes of risks
in  order to  limit its exposure  to particular travel,  avocation and lifestyle
hazards. The Company has exposure to catastrophes, which are an inherent risk of
the  property  and  casualty  business  and  could  contribute  to   significant
fluctuations  in the Company's results of operations. The Company uses excess of
loss and quota share reinsurance arrangements to limit its maximum loss, provide
greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks.

     The Company has also protected  itself through the purchase of  combination
risk  coverage.  This reinsurance  coverage pools  risks  from several  lines of
business and includes individual and group  life claims in excess of $2  million
per policy, as well as excess property and casualty losses, among others.

     See  Note 12 for  information regarding certain  excess of loss reinsurance
agreements  providing  coverage  for  risks  associated  primarily  with   sales
practices claims.

     The  amounts in the consolidated statements  of income are presented net of
reinsurance ceded. The effects of reinsurance were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ---------------------------
                                                           2003      2002      2001
                                                          -------   -------   -------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Direct premiums.........................................  $19,396   $18,439   $16,332
Reinsurance assumed.....................................    3,706     2,993     2,907
Reinsurance ceded.......................................   (2,429)   (2,355)   (2,027)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
Net premiums............................................  $20,673   $19,077   $17,212
                                                          =======   =======   =======
Reinsurance recoveries netted against policyholder
  benefits..............................................  $ 2,417   $ 2,886   $ 2,255
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     Reinsurance recoverables, included in premiums and other receivables,  were
$4,014  million and $3,918 million at  December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
including  $1,341  million  and   $1,348  million,  respectively,  relating   to
reinsurance of long-term guaranteed interest contracts and structured settlement
lump  sum contracts  accounted for as  a financing  transaction. Reinsurance and
ceded commissions payables, included in other liabilities, were $106 million and
$79 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

                                       F-38
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table provides an analysis  of the activity in the  liability
for  benefits relating to property and  casualty, group accident and non-medical
health policies and contracts:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                             ------------------------
                                                              2003     2002     2001
                                                             ------   ------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                          <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance at January 1.......................................  $4,885   $4,597   $4,226
  Reinsurance recoverables.................................    (498)    (457)    (410)
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Net balance at January 1...................................   4,387    4,140    3,816
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Incurred related to:
  Current year.............................................   4,483    4,219    4,182
  Prior years..............................................      45      (81)     (84)
                                                             ------   ------   ------
                                                              4,528    4,138    4,098
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Paid related to:
  Current year.............................................  (2,676)  (2,559)  (2,538)
  Prior years..............................................  (1,352)  (1,332)  (1,236)
                                                             ------   ------   ------
                                                             (4,028)  (3,891)  (3,774)
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Net Balance at December 31.................................   4,887    4,387    4,140
  Add: Reinsurance recoverables............................     525      498      457
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Balance at December 31.....................................  $5,412   $4,885   $4,597
                                                             ======   ======   ======
</Table>

6.  CLOSED BLOCK

     On the  date of  demutualization, Metropolitan  Life established  a  closed
block  for the benefit of holders  of certain individual life insurance policies
of Metropolitan  Life. Assets  have been  allocated to  the closed  block in  an
amount  that  has been  determined to  produce cash  flows which,  together with
anticipated revenues  from  the  policies  included in  the  closed  block,  are
reasonably  expected  to be  sufficient to  support obligations  and liabilities
relating to these policies,  including, but not limited  to, provisions for  the
payment  of  claims and  certain  expenses and  taxes,  and to  provide  for the
continuation of  policyholder  dividend  scales  in  effect  for  1999,  if  the
experience  underlying  such  dividend  scales  continues,  and  for appropriate
adjustments in such  scales if the  experience changes. At  least annually,  the
Company  compares actual and projected experience against the experience assumed
in the then-current dividend scales.  Dividend scales are adjusted  periodically
to give effect to changes in experience.

     The  closed  block assets,  the cash  flows generated  by the  closed block
assets and the anticipated revenues from  the policies in the closed block  will
benefit  only the  holders of the  policies in  the closed block.  To the extent
that, over time, cash flows  from the assets allocated  to the closed block  and
claims  and other experience related to the  closed block are, in the aggregate,
more or  less  favorable  than  what  was assumed  when  the  closed  block  was
established,  total dividends paid  to closed block  policyholders in the future
may be greater than or less than  the total dividends that would have been  paid
to  these policyholders if  the policyholder dividend scales  in effect for 1999
had been  continued.  Any  cash flows  in  excess  of amounts  assumed  will  be
available  for distribution over time to closed block policyholders and will not
be available to stockholders. If the closed block has insufficient funds to make
guaranteed policy  benefit payments,  such  payments will  be made  from  assets
outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in effect as long as
any policy in the closed block remains in-force. The expected life of the closed
block is over 100 years.

                                       F-39
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The  Company  uses  the  same  accounting  principles  to  account  for the
participating policies included in the closed block as it used prior to the date
of demutualization.  However, the  Company establishes  a policyholder  dividend
obligation  for  earnings  that  will be  paid  to  policyholders  as additional
dividends as described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over closed
block assets at the effective date of the demutualization (adjusted to eliminate
the impact  of  related  amounts  in  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income)
represents  the estimated maximum future earnings from the closed block expected
to result from  operations attributed to  the closed block  after income  taxes.
Earnings  of  the closed  block are  recognized  in income  over the  period the
policies and contracts in the closed block remain in-force. Management  believes
that  over  time  the  actual  cumulative  earnings  of  the  closed  block will
approximately equal  the  expected cumulative  earnings  due to  the  effect  of
dividend changes. If, over the period the closed block remains in existence, the
actual  cumulative earnings  of the  closed block  is greater  than the expected
cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will pay the excess of  the
actual  cumulative earnings  of the  closed block  over the  expected cumulative
earnings to  closed block  policyholders  as additional  policyholder  dividends
unless  offset  by  future  unfavorable  experience  of  the  closed  block and,
accordingly, will recognize only the expected cumulative earnings in income with
the excess recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. If over such  period,
the  actual cumulative earnings  of the closed  block is less  than the expected
cumulative earnings of  the closed block,  the Company will  recognize only  the
actual earnings in income. However, the Company may change policyholder dividend
scales in the future, which would be intended to increase future actual earnings
until the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected cumulative earnings.

                                       F-40
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Closed  block liabilities and assets designated  to the closed block are as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                                2003        2002
                                                              ---------   ---------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
CLOSED BLOCK LIABILITIES
Future policy benefits......................................   $41,928     $41,207
Other policyholder funds....................................       260         279
Policyholder dividends payable..............................       682         719
Policyholder dividend obligation............................     2,130       1,882
Payables under securities loaned transactions...............     6,418       4,851
Other liabilities...........................................       180         433
                                                               -------     -------
     Total closed block liabilities.........................    51,598      49,371
                                                               -------     -------
ASSETS DESIGNATED TO THE CLOSED BLOCK
Investments:
     Fixed maturities available-for-sale, at fair value
      (amortized cost: $30,381 and $28,339, respectively)...    32,348      29,981
     Equity securities, at fair value (cost: $217 and $236,
      respectively).........................................       250         218
     Mortgage loans on real estate..........................     7,431       7,032
     Policy loans...........................................     4,036       3,988
     Short-term investments.................................       123          24
     Other invested assets..................................       108         604
                                                               -------     -------
          Total investments.................................    44,296      41,847
Cash and cash equivalents...................................       531         435
Accrued investment income...................................       527         540
Deferred income taxes.......................................     1,043       1,151
Premiums and other receivables..............................       164         130
                                                               -------     -------
     Total assets designated to the closed block............    46,561      44,103
                                                               -------     -------
Excess of closed block liabilities over assets designated to
  to the closed block.......................................     5,037       5,268
                                                               -------     -------
Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss:
     Net unrealized investment gains net of deferred income
      tax of $730 and $577, respectively....................     1,270       1,047
     Unrealized derivative gains (losses), net of deferred
      income tax (benefit) expense of $(28) and $7,
      respectively..........................................       (48)         13
     Allocated to policyholder dividend obligation, net of
      deferred income tax benefit of ($778) and ($668),
      respectively..........................................    (1,352)     (1,214)
                                                               -------     -------
                                                                  (130)       (154)
                                                               -------     -------
Maximum future earnings to be recognized from closed block
  assets and liabilities....................................   $ 4,907     $ 5,114
                                                               =======     =======
</Table>

                                       F-41
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Information regarding the policyholder dividend obligation is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------
                                                               2003      2002     2001
                                                              -------   -------   -----
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Balance at beginning of year................................  $1,882    $  708    $385
Impact on net income before amounts allocated from
  policyholder dividend obligation..........................     144       157     159
Net investment gains (losses)...............................    (144)     (157)   (159)
Change in unrealized investment and derivative gains........     248     1,174     323
                                                              ------    ------    ----
Balance at end of year......................................  $2,130    $1,882    $708
                                                              ======    ======    ====
</Table>

     Closed block revenues and expenses were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                             ------------------------
                                                              2003     2002     2001
                                                             ------   ------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                          <C>      <C>      <C>
REVENUES
Premiums...................................................  $3,365   $3,551   $3,658
Net investment income and other revenues...................   2,554    2,568    2,547
Net investment gains (losses) (net of amounts allocated
  from the policyholder dividend obligation of ($144),
  ($157) and ($159), respectively).........................      16      168      (12)
                                                             ------   ------   ------
  Total revenues...........................................   5,935    6,287    6,193
                                                             ------   ------   ------
EXPENSES
Policyholder benefits and claims...........................   3,660    3,770    3,862
Policyholder dividends.....................................   1,509    1,573    1,544
Change in policyholder dividend obligation (excludes
  amounts directly related to net investment gains (losses)
  of ($144), ($157) and ($159), respectively)..............     144      157      159
Other expenses.............................................     297      310      352
                                                             ------   ------   ------
  Total expenses...........................................   5,610    5,810    5,917
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Revenues net of expenses before income taxes...............     325      477      276
Income taxes...............................................     118      173       97
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Revenues net of expenses and income taxes..................  $  207   $  304   $  179
                                                             ======   ======   ======
</Table>

     The change in maximum future earnings of the closed block is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                             ------------------------
                                                              2003     2002     2001
                                                             ------   ------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                          <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance at end of year.....................................  $4,907   $5,114   $5,333
Less:
  Reallocation of assets...................................      --       85       --
  Balance at beginning of year.............................   5,114    5,333    5,512
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Change during year.........................................  $ (207)  $ (304)  $ (179)
                                                             ======   ======   ======
</Table>

                                       F-42
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     During the year ended  December 31, 2002, the  allocation of assets to  the
closed block was revised to appropriately classify assets in accordance with the
plan   of  demutualization.  The  reallocation  of   assets  had  no  impact  on
consolidated assets or liabilities.

     Metropolitan Life charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state
and local premium taxes,  and other additive  state or local  taxes, as well  as
investment  management expenses relating to the  closed block as provided in the
plan of demutualization.  Metropolitan Life  also charges the  closed block  for
expenses of maintaining the policies included in the closed block.

     Many  of the derivative instrument strategies  used by the Company are also
used for the closed block.  The table below provides  a summary of the  notional
amount and fair value of derivatives by hedge accounting classification at:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 DECEMBER 31, 2003                 DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                          -------------------------------   -------------------------------
                                                          FAIR VALUE                        FAIR VALUE
                                          NOTIONAL   --------------------   NOTIONAL   --------------------
                                           AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES    AMOUNT    ASSETS   LIABILITIES
                                          --------   ------   -----------   --------   ------   -----------
                                                                (DOLLAR IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                       <C>        <C>      <C>           <C>        <C>      <C>
BY TYPE OF HEDGE
Fair value..............................    $  6     $  --        $ 1         $ --      $ --       $ --
Cash flow...............................     473        --         80          128         2         11
Non qualifying..........................      90        --         12          258        32          2
                                            ----     ------       ---         ----      ----       ----
  Total.................................    $569     $  --        $93         $386      $ 34       $ 13
                                            ====     ======       ===         ====      ====       ====
</Table>

     During  the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001, the closed block
recognized net investment expenses of $2 million and net investment income of $1
million and $1 million, respectively,  from the periodic settlement of  interest
rate  caps and  interest rate,  foreign currency  and credit  default swaps that
qualify as accounting hedges under SFAS 133, as amended.

     During the year  ended December 31,  2003, the closed  block recognized  $1
million  in  net  investment losses  related  to qualifying  fair  value hedges.
Accordingly, $1 million of unrealized gains on fair value hedged investments was
recognized in net  investment losses during  the year ended  December 31,  2003.
There  were no fair  value hedges during  the years ended  December 31, 2002 and
2001. There  were no  discontinued  fair value  hedges  during the  years  ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

     For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, the net amounts accumulated
in  other comprehensive income relating  to cash flow hedges  were losses of $75
million and gains of $21 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2002, the market  value of cash flow  hedges decreased by $106  million
and  increased by $4 million, respectively.  During the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2002, the closed block recognized other comprehensive net losses of $93
million and other comprehensive net gains of $4 million, respectively,  relating
to  the effective portion of  cash flow hedges. During  the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,  no cash flow hedges  were discontinued. For the  years
ended  December  31,  2003  and  2002,  $3  million  and  $4  million  of  other
comprehensive income was  reclassified to net  investment income,  respectively,
related  to the  SFAS 133  transition adjustment.  Amounts reclassified  for the
transition adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2001 were insignificant.

     Approximately $5  million  of  net losses  reported  in  accumulated  other
comprehensive income at December 31, 2003 are expected to be reclassified during
the  year ending December 31, 2004 into net investment losses as the derivatives
and underlying investments mature or expire according to their original terms.

     For the years ended  December 31, 2003, 2002  and 2001, scheduled  periodic
settlement payments on derivative instruments recognized as net investment gains
and losses were immaterial. Net investment losses

                                       F-43
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

from  changes in  fair value  of $18  million and  $11 million  and gains  of $5
million  related  to  derivatives  not  qualifying  as  accounting  hedges  were
recognized for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

7.  DEBT

     Debt consisted of the following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                                2003         2002
                                                              --------     --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Senior notes, interest rates ranging from 3.91% to 7.25%,
  maturity dates ranging from 2005 to 2033..................   $4,256       $2,539
Surplus notes, interest rates ranging from 7.00% to 7.88%,
  maturity dates ranging from 2005 to 2025..................      940        1,632
Fixed rate notes, interest rates ranging from 1.69% to
  12.00%, maturity dates ranging from 2005 to 2009..........      110           83
Capital lease obligations...................................       74           21
Other notes with varying interest rates.....................      323          150
                                                               ------       ------
Total long-term debt........................................    5,703        4,425
Total short-term debt.......................................    3,642        1,161
                                                               ------       ------
  Total.....................................................   $9,345       $5,586
                                                               ======       ======
</Table>

     The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating
$2,478 million ($1,000 million expiring in 2004, $1,303 million expiring in 2005
and  $175 million expiring in  2006). If these facilities  were drawn upon, they
would bear  interest at  rates  stated in  the  agreements. The  facilities  are
primarily used for general corporate purposes and as back-up lines of credit for
the  borrowers' commercial paper program. At  December 31, 2003, the Company had
drawn approximately  $49  million  under  the facilities  expiring  in  2005  at
interest rates ranging from 4.08% to 5.48% and approximately another $50 million
under the facility expiring in 2006 at an interest rate of 1.69%. In April 2003,
the  Company replaced an expiring $1 billion five-year credit facility with a $1
billion 364-day credit facility and the Holding Company was added as a borrower.
In May 2003,  the Company replaced  an expiring $140  million three-year  credit
facility,  with a $175 million three-year credit facility which expires in 2006.
At December 31, 2003, the Company  had approximately $828 million in letters  of
credit from various banks.

     Payments  of interest and  principal on the  surplus notes, subordinated to
all other  indebtedness,  may  be made  only  with  the prior  approval  of  the
insurance  department of the state of domicile. On November 1, 2003, the Company
redeemed the $300 million of 7.45% surplus notes outstanding scheduled to mature
on November 1, 2023 at a redemption price of $311 million.

     The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for the Company are $134 million
in 2004, $1,436 million in 2005, $662 million in 2006, $39 million in 2007,  $44
million in 2008 and $3,388 million thereafter.

     Short-term  debt  of  the  Company consisted  of  commercial  paper  with a
weighted average interest  rate of 1.1%  and a weighted  average maturity of  31
days  at  December  31,  2003.  Short-term  debt  of  the  Company  consisted of
commercial paper with a  weighted average interest rate  of 1.5% and a  weighted
average  maturity of 74  days at December  31, 2002. The  Company also has other
collateralized borrowings with  a weighted average  coupon rate of  5.07% and  a
weighted average maturity of 30 days at December 31, 2003. Such securities had a
weighted average coupon rate of 5.83% and a weighted average maturity of 34 days
at December 31, 2002.

                                       F-44
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Interest  expense related to  the Company's indebtedness  included in other
expenses was $420  million, $288 million  and $252 million  for the years  ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

8.  SHARES SUBJECT TO MANDATORY REDEMPTION AND COMPANY-OBLIGATED MANDATORILY
    REDEEMABLE SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY TRUSTS

     MetLife  Capital  Trust I.   In  connection  with MetLife,  Inc.'s, initial
public offering in April 2000, the  Holding Company and MetLife Capital Trust  I
(the  "Trust") issued equity security units  (the "units"). Each unit originally
consisted of  (i)  a  contract to  purchase,  for  $50, shares  of  the  Holding
Company's  common stock (the "purchase  contracts") on May 15,  2003; and (ii) a
capital security of the Trust, with a stated liquidation amount of $50.

     In accordance  with the  terms of  the units,  the Trust  was dissolved  on
February  5,  2003,  and  $1,006 million  aggregate  principal  amount  of 8.00%
debentures of the Holding Company (the "MetLife debentures"), the sole assets of
the Trust, were distributed to the  owners of the Trust's capital securities  in
exchange for their capital securities. The MetLife debentures were remarketed on
behalf of the debenture owners on February 12, 2003 and the interest rate on the
MetLife  debentures was reset as of February 15,  2003 to 3.911% per annum for a
yield to  maturity of  2.876%. As  a result  of the  remarketing, the  debenture
owners  received $21 million ($0.03  per diluted common share)  in excess of the
carrying value  of the  capital  securities. This  excess  was recorded  by  the
Company  as  a charge  to additional  paid-in  capital and,  for the  purpose of
calculating earnings per share, is subtracted  from net income to arrive at  net
income available to common shareholders.

     On  May 15,  2003, the  purchase contracts  associated with  the units were
settled. In  exchange for  $1,006 million,  the Company  issued 2.97  shares  of
MetLife,  Inc. common stock per purchase contract, or approximately 59.8 million
shares of treasury stock. The excess of the Company's cost of the treasury stock
($1,662 million) over  the contract price  of the stock  issued to the  purchase
contract  holders ($1,006  million) was  $656 million,  which was  recorded as a
direct reduction to retained earnings.

     Interest expense on the  capital securities is  included in other  expenses
and  was $10 million, $81  million and $81 million  for the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     GenAmerica Capital I.  In June 1997, GenAmerica Corporation  ("GenAmerica")
issued  $125  million  of  8.525%  capital  securities  through  a  wholly-owned
subsidiary trust, GenAmerica Capital I. GenAmerica has fully and unconditionally
guaranteed, on  a subordinated  basis, the  obligation of  the trust  under  the
capital securities and is obligated to mandatorily redeem the securities on June
30,  2027. GenAmerica may  prepay the securities  any time after  June 30, 2007.
Capital securities outstanding were $119  million, net of unamortized  discounts
of  $6 million, at  both December 31,  2003 and 2002.  Interest expense on these
instruments is included in other  expenses and was $11  million for each of  the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

     RGA  Capital Trust I.  In December 2001, a majority-owned subsidiary of the
Company,  Reinsurance  Group  of  America  Incorporated  ("RGA"),  through   its
wholly-owned  trust,  RGA  Capital  Trust  I  (the  "Trust"),  issued  4,500,000
Preferred Income Equity Redeemable Securities  ("PIERS") Units. Each PIERS  unit
consists  of  (i) a  preferred security  issued  by the  Trust, having  a stated
liquidation amount  of  $50  per  unit,  representing  an  undivided  beneficial
ownership  interest in the assets  of the Trust, which  consist solely of junior
subordinated debentures issued by RGA which have a principal amount at  maturity
of  $50 and a stated maturity of March 18, 2051, and (ii) a warrant to purchase,
at any  time prior  to December  15,  2050, 1.2508  shares of  RGA stock  at  an
exercise price of $50. The fair market value of the warrant on the issuance date
was  $14.87  and  is  detachable  from the  preferred  security.  RGA  fully and
unconditionally guarantees,  on a  subordinated basis,  the obligations  of  the
Trust  under the preferred securities. The preferred securities and subordinated
debentures were issued at  a discount (original issue  discount) to the face  or
liquidation value of

                                       F-45
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$14.87  per security. The securities will  accrete to their $50 face/liquidation
value over the life of the security on a level yield basis. The weighted average
effective interest  rate  on  the  preferred  securities  and  the  subordinated
debentures is 8.25% per annum. Capital securities outstanding were $158 million,
net of unamortized discount of $67 million, at both December 31, 2003 and 2002.

9.  SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 TRAGEDIES

     On  September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks occurred in New York, Washington,
D.C. and Pennsylvania (the  "tragedies") triggering a  significant loss of  life
and  property,  which  had  an  adverse  impact  on  certain  of  the  Company's
businesses. The  Company's  original  estimate of  the  total  insurance  losses
related  to the tragedies, which was recorded  in the third quarter of 2001, was
$208 million, net of income taxes of  $117 million. As of December 31, 2003  and
2002,  the Company's remaining liability for unpaid and future claims associated
with the tragedies  was $9  million and $47  million, respectively,  principally
related  to disability coverages. This estimate has been and will continue to be
subject to revision in subsequent periods, as claims are received from  insureds
and processed. Any revision to the estimate of losses in subsequent periods will
affect net income in such periods.

10.  BUSINESS REALIGNMENT INITIATIVES

     During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company implemented several business
realignment  initiatives, which resulted  from a strategic  review of operations
and an ongoing commitment to reduce expenses.  The impact of these actions on  a
segment  basis were  charges of  $399 million  in Institutional,  $97 million in
Individual and $3 million in Auto & Home. The liability at December 31, 2003 and
2002 was  $27 million  and $40  million,  in the  Institutional segment  and  $9
million  and $18 million, in the Individual segment, respectively. The remaining
liability is due to certain contractual obligations.

11.  INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes for continuing operations was as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------
                                                               2003     2002      2001
                                                              ------   -------   ------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>       <C>
Current:
  Federal...................................................   $363     $ 803     $(67)
  State and local...........................................     22       (17)      (4)
  Foreign...................................................     47        31       15
                                                               ----     -----     ----
                                                                432       817      (56)
                                                               ----     -----     ----
Deferred:
  Federal...................................................    240      (332)     247
  State and local...........................................     27        16       12
  Foreign...................................................    (12)        1        1
                                                               ----     -----     ----
                                                                255      (315)     260
                                                               ----     -----     ----
Provision for income taxes..................................   $687     $ 502     $204
                                                               ====     =====     ====
</Table>

                                       F-46
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Reconciliations of the income tax provision  at the U.S. statutory rate  to
the  provision for  income taxes as  reported for continuing  operations were as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------
                                                               2003      2002     2001
                                                              -------   ------   ------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>      <C>
Tax provision at U.S. statutory rate........................   $ 920     $572     $200
Tax effect of:
  Tax exempt investment income..............................    (118)     (87)     (82)
  State and local income taxes..............................      44       20        6
Foreign operations net of foreign income taxes..............     (81)      (1)       4
  Prior year taxes..........................................     (26)      (7)      38
  Sales of businesses.......................................      --       --        5
  Other, net................................................     (52)       5       33
                                                               -----     ----     ----
Provision for income taxes..................................   $ 687     $502     $204
                                                               =====     ====     ====
</Table>

     Deferred income taxes represent the  tax effect of the differences  between
the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Net deferred income tax assets
and liabilities consisted of the following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                                2003        2002
                                                              ---------   ---------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Deferred income tax assets:
  Policyholder liabilities and receivables..................   $ 3,704     $ 3,845
  Net operating losses......................................       352         322
  Litigation related........................................        72          99
  Intangible tax asset......................................       120         199
  Other.....................................................       268         386
                                                               -------     -------
                                                                 4,516       4,851
  Less: Valuation allowance.................................        32          84
                                                               -------     -------
                                                                 4,484       4,767
                                                               -------     -------
Deferred income tax liabilities:
  Investments...............................................     1,343       1,681
  Deferred policy acquisition costs.........................     3,595       3,307
  Employee benefits.........................................       131          55
  Net unrealized investment gains...........................     1,679       1,264
  Other.....................................................       135          85
                                                               -------     -------
                                                                 6,883       6,392
                                                               -------     -------
Net deferred income tax liability...........................   $(2,399)    $(1,625)
                                                               =======     =======
</Table>

     Domestic  net  operating  loss  carryforwards  amount  to  $828  million at
December 31, 2003 and will expire beginning in 2013. Foreign net operating  loss
carryforwards  amount to $241 million at December 31, 2003 and were generated in
various foreign countries with expiration periods of five years to infinity.

     The Company has recorded a valuation  allowance related to tax benefits  of
certain  foreign  net  operating  loss  carryforwards.  The  valuation allowance
reflects management's assessment, based on available informa-

                                       F-47
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

tion, that it is  more likely than  not that the deferred  income tax asset  for
certain  foreign net operating loss carryforwards  will not be realized. The tax
benefit will be recognized when management believes that it is more likely  than
not  that these deferred income tax assets  are realizable. In 2003, the Company
recorded a tax benefit for the reduction of the deferred tax valuation allowance
related to  certain  foreign net  operating  loss carryforwards.  The  2003  tax
provision  also includes an adjustment revising the estimate of income taxes for
2002.

     The Internal Revenue Service has audited the Company for the years  through
and  including 1996. The Company  is being audited for  the years 1997, 1998 and
1999. The Company believes that any adjustments that might be required for  open
years will not have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

12.  COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES

  LITIGATION

     Sales Practices Claims

     Over  the past  several years, Metropolitan  Life, New  England Mutual Life
Insurance Company ("New  England Mutual")  and General  American Life  Insurance
Company  ("General American") have faced numerous claims, including class action
lawsuits, alleging improper  marketing and  sales of  individual life  insurance
policies  or  annuities.  These lawsuits  are  generally referred  to  as "sales
practices claims."

     In December 1999,  a federal  court approved a  settlement resolving  sales
practices  claims on  behalf of  a class of  owners of  permanent life insurance
policies and annuity  contracts or  certificates issued  pursuant to  individual
sales  in the  United States  by Metropolitan  Life, Metropolitan  Insurance and
Annuity Company or Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company between January  1,
1982  and  December 31,  1997. The  class includes  owners of  approximately six
million in-force or terminated insurance policies and approximately one  million
in-force or terminated annuity contracts or certificates.

     Similar  sales  practices class  actions against  New England  Mutual, with
which Metropolitan Life merged in 1996, and General American, which was acquired
in 2000,  have  been  settled. In  October  2000,  a federal  court  approved  a
settlement  resolving sales practices claims  on behalf of a  class of owners of
permanent life insurance policies issued  by New England Mutual between  January
1,  1983 through  August 31,  1996. The  class includes  owners of approximately
600,000 in-force  or  terminated  policies.  A  federal  court  has  approved  a
settlement  resolving sales practices claims  on behalf of a  class of owners of
permanent life insurance policies issued by General American between January  1,
1982  through  December 31,  1996.  An appellate  court  has affirmed  the order
approving the settlement.  The class  includes owners  of approximately  250,000
in-force or terminated policies.

     Certain  class members have opted out of the class action settlements noted
above and have brought or  continued non-class action sales practices  lawsuits.
In  addition, other sales  practices lawsuits have been  brought. As of December
31, 2003, there are approximately  366 sales practices lawsuits pending  against
Metropolitan Life, approximately 40 sales practices lawsuits pending against New
England  Mutual and  approximately 25  sales practices  lawsuits pending against
General American. Metropolitan  Life, New  England Mutual  and General  American
continue to defend themselves vigorously against these lawsuits. Some individual
sales practices claims have been resolved through settlement, won by dispositive
motions,  or, in a few instances, have gone  to trial. Most of the current cases
seek substantial damages, including  in some cases  punitive and treble  damages
and  attorneys' fees. Additional litigation  relating to the Company's marketing
and sales of individual life insurance may be commenced in the future.

     The Metropolitan Life class action settlement did not resolve two  putative
class  actions involving sales practices  claims filed against Metropolitan Life
in Canada, and these actions remain pending.

                                       F-48
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company believes adequate provision  has been made in its  consolidated
financial  statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for sales
practices claims  against  Metropolitan Life,  New  England Mutual  and  General
American.

     Regulatory  authorities in a small number of states have had investigations
or inquiries relating to  Metropolitan Life's, New  England Mutual's or  General
American's  sales of individual  life insurance policies  or annuities. Over the
past several years,  these and a  number of investigations  by other  regulatory
authorities  were resolved for  monetary payments and  certain other relief. The
Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.

     Asbestos-Related Claims

     Metropolitan Life  is also  a defendant  in thousands  of lawsuits  seeking
compensatory  and  punitive damages  for personal  injuries allegedly  caused by
exposure to  asbestos or  asbestos-containing  products. Metropolitan  Life  has
never  engaged  in the  business  of manufacturing,  producing,  distributing or
selling asbestos  or  asbestos-containing  products nor  has  Metropolitan  Life
issued liability or workers' compensation insurance to companies in the business
of    manufacturing,   producing,   distributing    or   selling   asbestos   or
asbestos-containing products. Rather, these lawsuits have principally been based
upon allegations relating to certain research, publication and other  activities
of  one or  more of  Metropolitan Life's  employees during  the period  from the
1920's through approximately the 1950's and have alleged that Metropolitan  Life
learned  or should have learned  of certain health risks  posed by asbestos and,
among other things,  improperly publicized  or failed to  disclose those  health
risks.  Metropolitan Life  believes that it  should not have  legal liability in
such cases.

     Legal theories asserted against Metropolitan Life have included negligence,
intentional tort  claims  and  conspiracy claims  concerning  the  health  risks
associated with asbestos. Although Metropolitan Life believes it has meritorious
defenses to these claims, and has not suffered any adverse monetary judgments in
respect of these claims, due to the risks and expenses of litigation, almost all
past  cases  have been  resolved  by settlements.  Metropolitan  Life's defenses
(beyond denial of  certain factual  allegations) to  plaintiffs' claims  include
that:  (i) Metropolitan Life owed no duty to the plaintiffs -- it had no special
relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture, produce, distribute or
sell the asbestos  products that allegedly  injured plaintiffs; (ii)  plaintiffs
cannot demonstrate justifiable detrimental reliance; and (iii) plaintiffs cannot
demonstrate  proximate causation. In defending asbestos cases, Metropolitan Life
selects various strategies depending upon the jurisdictions in which such  cases
are  brought  and other  factors which,  in  Metropolitan Life's  judgment, best
protect Metropolitan Life's interests. Strategies  include seeking to settle  or
compromise  claims,  motions challenging  the legal  or  factual basis  for such
claims or defending on the  merits at trial. In 2002  and 2003, trial courts  in
California,   Utah  and  Georgia  granted   motions  dismissing  claims  against
Metropolitan Life on some or all of the above grounds. Other courts have  denied
motions  brought by Metropolitan Life to  dismiss cases without the necessity of
trial. There can be no assurance  that Metropolitan Life will receive  favorable
decisions  on motions  in the future.  Metropolitan Life intends  to continue to
exercise its  best  judgment regarding  settlement  or defense  of  such  cases,
including when trials of these cases are appropriate.

                                       F-49
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table sets forth the total number of asbestos personal injury
claims  pending against Metropolitan Life as  of the dates indicated, the number
of new claims during  the years ended  on those dates  and the total  settlement
payments made to resolve asbestos personal injury claims during those years:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       AT OR FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                      ----------------------------------------
                                                         2003           2002           2001
                                                      -----------    -----------    ----------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                   <C>            <C>            <C>
Asbestos personal injury claims at year end
  (approximate).....................................    111,700        106,500        89,000
Number of new claims during the year
  (approximate).....................................     60,300         66,000        59,500
Settlement payments during the year (1).............   $   84.2       $   95.1       $  90.7
</Table>

---------------

(1) Settlement  payments represent payments made by Metropolitan Life during the
    year in connection with  settlements made in that  year and in prior  years.
    Amounts  do not include Metropolitan Life's attorneys' fees and expenses and
    do not reflect amounts received from insurance carriers.

     The Company believes adequate provision  has been made in its  consolidated
financial  statements  for  all  probable and  reasonably  estimable  losses for
asbestos-related claims.  The  ability  of Metropolitan  Life  to  estimate  its
ultimate  asbestos  exposure  is  subject  to  considerable  uncertainty  due to
numerous factors. The  availability of data  is limited and  it is difficult  to
predict  with  any  certainty  numerous  variables  that  can  affect  liability
estimates, including the number  of future claims, the  cost to resolve  claims,
the  disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort
reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and  their
amounts.

     Recent  bankruptcies of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, as
well as advertising by plaintiffs' asbestos  lawyers, may result in an  increase
in  the number of claims and the cost of resolving claims, as well as the number
of trials  and  possible  adverse verdicts  Metropolitan  Life  may  experience.
Plaintiffs  are seeking additional funds from defendants, including Metropolitan
Life, in  light of  such recent  bankruptcies by  certain other  defendants.  In
addition,  publicity  regarding  legislative  reform efforts  may  result  in an
increase in the number of claims.

     Metropolitan Life  will continue  to study  its claims  experience,  review
external  literature regarding asbestos  claims experience in  the United States
and consider numerous variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure,
including bankruptcies of  other companies involved  in asbestos litigation  and
legislative  and judicial developments,  to identify trends  and to assess their
impact on the recorded asbestos liability.

     The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of
any  liability  that  Metropolitan  Life  may  ultimately  incur  is  uncertain.
Accordingly,  it is  reasonably possible  that the  Company's total  exposure to
asbestos claims may be greater than the liability recorded by the Company in its
consolidated financial  statements and  that  future charges  to income  may  be
necessary.  While the potential  future charges could  be material in particular
quarterly or annual  periods in which  they are recorded,  based on  information
currently  known by management, it does not  believe any such charges are likely
to have  a  material adverse  effect  on the  Company's  consolidated  financial
position.

     During  the fourth quarter  of 2002, Metropolitan  Life analyzed its claims
experience and reviewed external publications and numerous variables to identify
trends and assessed  their impact  on its recorded  asbestos liability.  Certain
publications  suggested  a  trend  towards more  asbestos-related  claims  and a
greater awareness of asbestos litigation  generally by potential plaintiffs  and
plaintiffs'  lawyers.  Plaintiffs' lawyers  continue  to advertise  heavily with
respect to  asbestos  litigation.  Bankruptcies  and  reorganizations  of  other
defendants  in  asbestos  litigation  may increase  the  pressures  on remaining
defendants, including Metropolitan Life. Through the first nine months of  2002,
the    number   of    new   claims    received   by    Metropolitan   Life   was

                                       F-50
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

lower than those received during the comparable 2001 period. However, the number
of  new claims received by  Metropolitan Life during the  fourth quarter of 2002
was significantly  higher  than  those  received  in  the  prior  year  quarter,
resulting in more new claims being received by Metropolitan Life in 2002 than in
2001.  Factors considered  also included  expected trends  in filing  cases, the
dates of initial exposure  of plaintiffs to asbestos,  the likely percentage  of
total  asbestos  claims  which included  Metropolitan  Life as  a  defendant and
experience in claims settlement negotiations.

     Metropolitan Life also considered views derived from actuarial calculations
it made in the fourth quarter of 2002. These calculations were made using, among
other things, then current information regarding Metropolitan Life's claims  and
settlement  experience, information  available in public  reports, as  well as a
study regarding the possible future incidence  of mesothelioma. Based on all  of
the  above  information, including  greater than  expected claims  experience in
2000, 2001 and 2002,  Metropolitan Life expected to  receive more claims in  the
future   than  it  had  previously  expected.  Previously,  Metropolitan  Life's
liability reflected that the increase in asbestos-related claims was a result of
an acceleration in the reporting of such claims; the liability now reflects that
such an  increase is  also the  result of  an increase  in the  total number  of
asbestos-related   claims  expected   to  be  received   by  Metropolitan  Life.
Accordingly,  Metropolitan   Life   increased   its   recorded   liability   for
asbestos-related  claims  by $402  million  from approximately  $820  million to
$1,225 million  at  December  31, 2002.  This  total  recorded  asbestos-related
liability  (after  the self-insured  retention) is  within  the coverage  of the
excess insurance  policies  discussed  below. The  aforementioned  analysis  was
updated through December 31, 2003.

     During  1998, Metropolitan  Life paid $878  million in  premiums for excess
insurance policies for  asbestos-related claims. The  excess insurance  policies
for asbestos-related claims provide for recovery of losses up to $1,500 million,
which   is   in  excess   of  a   $400   million  self-insured   retention.  The
asbestos-related policies are  also subject to  annual and per-claim  sublimits.
Amounts  are recoverable under the policies annually with respect to claims paid
during the prior calendar  year. Although amounts paid  by Metropolitan Life  in
any  given year  that may  be recoverable  in the  next calendar  year under the
policies will be reflected as a reduction in the Company's operating cash  flows
for  the year in which they are paid, management believes that the payments will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity.

     Each asbestos-related policy  contains an experience  fund and a  reference
fund  that provides for payments to Metropolitan Life at the commutation date if
the reference fund is  greater than zero at  commutation or pro rata  reductions
from  time  to time  in  the loss  reimbursements  to Metropolitan  Life  if the
cumulative return on the reference fund is less than the return specified in the
experience fund. The return in the reference fund is tied to performance of  the
Standard  & Poor's  500 Index  and the Lehman  Brothers Aggregate  Bond Index. A
claim was made under the excess insurance policies in 2003 for the amounts  paid
with  respect  to  asbestos litigation  in  excess  of the  retention.  Based on
performance of the reference fund, at December 31, 2002, the loss reimbursements
to Metropolitan Life in 2003 and  the recoverable with respect to later  periods
was  $42 million less than the amount of the recorded losses. Such foregone loss
reimbursements  may  be  recovered   upon  commutation  depending  upon   future
performance  of  the  reference  fund.  The  foregone  loss  reimbursements were
estimated to be $9 million with respect  to 2002 claims and estimated to be  $42
million in the aggregate.

     The  $402 million  increase in the  recorded liability  for asbestos claims
less the foregone loss reimbursement adjustment of $42 million ($27 million, net
of income tax) resulted in  an increase in the  recoverable of $360 million.  At
December  31, 2002, a portion ($136 million) of the $360 million recoverable was
recognized in  income while  the  remainder ($224  million)  was recorded  as  a
deferred  gain which is expected  to be recognized in  income in the future over
the estimated  settlement period  of  the excess  insurance policies.  The  $402
million  increase in the recorded liability, less the portion of the recoverable
recognized in income, resulted in a  net expense of $266 million ($169  million,
net of income tax). The $360 million recoverable may

                                       F-51
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

change  depending on the future  performance of the Standard  & Poor's 500 Index
and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index.

     As a result of the excess insurance policies, $1,237 million is recorded as
a recoverable at  December 31,  2002 ($224  million of  which is  recorded as  a
deferred  gain as mentioned  above); the amount  includes recoveries for amounts
paid in 2002. If at some point in the future, the Company believes the liability
for  probable  and  estimable  losses  for  asbestos-related  claims  should  be
increased,  an expense would be recorded  and the insurance recoverable would be
adjusted subject to  the terms, conditions  and limits of  the excess  insurance
policies.  Portions of the change in the insurance recoverable would be recorded
as a  deferred gain  and  amortized into  income  over the  estimated  remaining
settlement period of the insurance policies.

     In  2003, Metropolitan Life also  has been named as  a defendant in a small
number of silicosis,  welding and  mixed dust cases.  The cases  are pending  in
Mississippi,  Texas,  Ohio,  Pennsylvania, West  Virginia,  Louisiana, Kentucky,
Georgia, Alabama, Illinois and  Arkansas. The Company  intends to defend  itself
vigorously against these cases.

     Property And Casualty Actions

     A  purported class action has been  filed against Metropolitan Property and
Casualty  Insurance  Company's   subsidiary,  Metropolitan  Casualty   Insurance
Company,  in Florida alleging breach of contract and unfair trade practices with
respect to allowing the use  of parts not made  by the original manufacturer  to
repair  damaged  automobiles.  Discovery  is  ongoing  and  a  motion  for class
certification is pending. Two purported nationwide class actions have been filed
against Metropolitan Property  and Casualty Insurance  Company in Illinois.  One
suit  claims breach  of contract  and fraud due  to the  alleged underpayment of
medical claims arising from the use of a purportedly biased provider fee pricing
system. A  motion  for class  certification  has  been filed  and  discovery  is
ongoing.  The second suit claims  breach of contract and  fraud arising from the
alleged use of preferred provider organizations to reduce medical provider  fees
covered  by the  medical claims  portion of  the insurance  policy. A  motion to
dismiss has  been  filed.  A  purported class  action  has  been  filed  against
Metropolitan  Property  and Casualty  Insurance  Company in  Montana.  This suit
alleges breach of contract and bad faith for not aggregating medical payment and
uninsured coverages provided in connection with the several vehicles  identified
in   insureds'  motor  vehicle  policies.  Metropolitan  Property  and  Casualty
Insurance Company is vigorously defending  itself against this lawsuit.  Certain
plaintiffs'  lawyers have alleged that the use of certain automated databases to
provide total loss vehicle valuation methods was improper. Metropolitan Property
and Casualty  Insurance Company,  along with  a number  of other  insurers,  has
tentatively  agreed in  January 2004  to resolve  this issue  in a  class action
format. The amount to be paid in resolution of this matter will not be  material
to Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company.

     Demutualization Actions

     Several   lawsuits  were  brought  in  2000  challenging  the  fairness  of
Metropolitan Life's  plan of  reorganization, as  amended (the  "plan") and  the
adequacy  and  accuracy  of  Metropolitan  Life's  disclosure  to  policyholders
regarding the plan. These actions name as defendants some or all of Metropolitan
Life, the Holding Company, the individual directors, the New York Superintendent
of Insurance (the  "Superintendent") and  the underwriters  for MetLife,  Inc.'s
initial public offering, Goldman Sachs & Company and Credit Suisse First Boston.
Five  purported class actions  pending in the  New York state  court in New York
County were consolidated within the commercial part. In addition, there remained
a separate purported class action in New York state court in New York County. On
February 21,  2003, the  defendants' motions  to dismiss  both the  consolidated
action  and separate action were granted; leave to replead as a proceeding under
Article 78 of New York's  Civil Practice Law and Rules  has been granted in  the
separate  action. Plaintiffs in the consolidated action and separate action have
filed notices of appeal. Another purported class action in New York state  court
in  Kings  County  has been  voluntarily  held  in abeyance  by  plaintiffs. The
plaintiffs in the state

                                       F-52
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

court class actions  seek injunctive,  declaratory and  compensatory relief,  as
well  as an  accounting and,  in some instances,  punitive damages.  Some of the
plaintiffs in the above described actions  also have brought a proceeding  under
Article  78 of New York's  Civil Practice Law and  Rules challenging the Opinion
and Decision of the  Superintendent who approved the  plan. In this  proceeding,
petitioners  seek to vacate the Superintendent's Opinion and Decision and enjoin
him from granting final approval  of the plan. This case  also is being held  in
abeyance  by plaintiffs. Three purported class  actions were filed in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of New York claiming violation of
the Securities Act  of 1933. The  plaintiffs in these  actions, which have  been
consolidated,  claim that the Policyholder  Information Booklets relating to the
plan  failed  to  disclose  certain  material  facts  and  seek  rescission  and
compensatory  damages. Metropolitan Life's  motion to dismiss  these three cases
was denied in 2001. On February 4, 2003, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended
complaint adding  a fraud  claim  under the  Securities  Exchange Act  of  1934.
Metropolitan  Life  has  served a  motion  to dismiss  the  consolidated amended
complaint and a motion for summary  judgment in this action. Metropolitan  Life,
the  Holding Company and the individual defendants believe they have meritorious
defenses to the  plaintiffs' claims  and are  contesting vigorously  all of  the
plaintiffs' claims in these actions.

     In  2001, a lawsuit  was filed in  the Superior Court  of Justice, Ontario,
Canada on behalf of  a proposed class of  certain former Canadian  policyholders
against  the Holding Company, Metropolitan Life, and Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company of Canada. Plaintiffs' allegations  concern the way that their  policies
were  treated in connection with the  demutualization of Metropolitan Life; they
seek damages,  declarations,  and  other non-pecuniary  relief.  The  defendants
believe  they  have  meritorious defenses  to  the plaintiffs'  claims  and will
contest vigorously all of plaintiffs' claims in this matter.

     In July 2002, a lawsuit was filed  in the United States District Court  for
the  Eastern District of  Texas on behalf  of a proposed  class comprised of the
settlement  class  in  the  Metropolitan  Life  sales  practices  class   action
settlement approved in December 1999 by the United States District Court for the
Western  District of Pennsylvania. After the  defendants' motion to transfer the
lawsuit to the Western District of Pennsylvania was granted, plaintiffs filed an
amended complaint alleging that the treatment of the cost of the sales practices
settlement in connection with the demutualization of Metropolitan Life  breached
the  terms  of  the  settlement.  Plaintiffs  sought  compensatory  and punitive
damages, as  well as  attorneys' fees  and  costs. In  October 2003,  the  court
granted  defendants' motion to dismiss the  action. Plaintiffs filed a notice of
appeal to the United States Court of  Appeals for the Third Circuit. In  January
2004, the appeal was dismissed.

     Race-Conscious Underwriting Claims

     Insurance  departments in  a number of  states initiated  inquiries in 2000
about possible race-conscious  underwriting of life  insurance. These  inquiries
generally  have been directed to all  life insurers licensed in their respective
states, including Metropolitan Life and certain of its affiliates. The New  York
Insurance   Department  has  concluded  its  examination  of  Metropolitan  Life
concerning possible past race-conscious  underwriting practices. Four  purported
class  action lawsuits filed against Metropolitan Life in 2000 and 2001 alleging
racial discrimination  in  the  marketing,  sale,  and  administration  of  life
insurance  policies have been  consolidated in the  United States District Court
for the Southern  District of New  York. On  April 28, 2003,  the United  States
District  Court approved a class-action  settlement of the consolidated actions.
Several persons filed notices of appeal from the order approving the settlement,
but subsequently the appeals were dismissed. Metropolitan Life also has  entered
into  settlement agreements to resolve  the regulatory examination. Metropolitan
Life recorded a  charge in the  fourth quarter  of 2001 in  connection with  the
anticipated  resolution  of these  matters. The  Company believes  the remaining
portion of  the  previously recorded  charge  is  adequate to  cover  the  costs
associated with the resolution of these matters.

     Sixteen  lawsuits involving approximately 130 plaintiffs have been filed in
federal and state court in  Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee alleging  federal
and/or state law claims of racial discrimination in

                                       F-53
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

connection  with  the  sale,  formation,  administration  or  servicing  of life
insurance policies.  Metropolitan  Life  is  contesting  vigorously  plaintiffs'
claims in these actions.

     Other

     In 2001, a putative class action was filed against Metropolitan Life in the
United  States District  Court for  the Southern  District of  New York alleging
gender discrimination and retaliation in the MetLife Financial Services unit  of
the  Individual segment.  The plaintiffs  were seeking  unspecified compensatory
damages, punitive  damages,  a  declaration  that  the  alleged  practices  were
discriminatory  and illegal,  injunctive relief  requiring Metropolitan  Life to
discontinue the  alleged  discriminatory  practices, an  order  restoring  class
members  to  their  rightful  positions  (or  appropriate  compensation  in lieu
thereof), and other relief. Plaintiffs  filed a motion for class  certification.
Opposition  papers were  filed by Metropolitan  Life. In August  2003, the court
granted preliminary approval  to a settlement  of the lawsuit.  At the  fairness
hearing  held on  November 6,  2003, the  court approved  the settlement  of the
lawsuit. Implementation of the settlement has commenced in 2004.

     A putative class action  lawsuit is pending in  the United States  District
Court  for the District of  Columbia, in which plaintiffs  allege that they were
denied  certain  ad  hoc  pension  increases  awarded  to  retirees  under   the
Metropolitan  Life retirement  plan. The ad  hoc pension  increases were awarded
only to retirees (i.e., individuals who were entitled to an immediate retirement
benefit upon their termination of  employment) and not available to  individuals
like  these  plaintiffs  whose  employment, or  whose  spouses'  employment, had
terminated before they became eligible for an immediate retirement benefit.  The
plaintiffs  seek to  represent a  class consisting  of former  Metropolitan Life
employees, or their surviving spouses, who are receiving deferred vested annuity
payments under the retirement  plan and who were  allegedly eligible to  receive
the  ad hoc pension increases awarded in  1977, 1980, 1989, 1992, 1996 and 2001,
as well as increases awarded in  earlier years. Metropolitan Life is  vigorously
defending itself against these allegations.

     A lawsuit was filed against Metropolitan Life in Ontario, Canada by Clarica
Life Insurance Company regarding the sale of the majority of Metropolitan Life's
Canadian  operation to Clarica  in 1998. Clarica  alleged that Metropolitan Life
breached certain representations and warranties contained in the sale agreement,
that Metropolitan Life made misrepresentations upon which Clarica relied  during
the  negotiations and that Metropolitan Life was negligent in the performance of
certain of its  obligations and  duties under  the sale  agreement. The  parties
settled  the matter in January 2004. The settlement will have no material impact
on the Company's consolidated financial results in 2004.

     A reinsurer of universal life  policy liabilities of Metropolitan Life  and
certain  of  its  affiliates  commenced  an  arbitration  proceeding  and sought
rescission, claiming that, during  underwriting, material misrepresentations  or
omissions  were  made  to  the  reinsurer.  The  reinsurer  also  sent  a notice
purporting  to  increase  reinsurance  premium  rates.  In  December  2003,  the
arbitration  panel denied  the reinsurer's attempt  to rescind  the contract and
granted the  reinsurer's request  to raise  rates. As  a result  of the  panel's
rulings,  liabilities ceded  to the reinsurer  were recaptured  effective May 5,
2003. The  recapture  had  no  material impact  on  the  Company's  consolidated
financial results in 2003.

     As previously reported, the SEC is conducting a formal investigation of New
England  Securities Corporation ("NES"),  an indirect subsidiary  of New England
Life Insurance Company  ("NELICO"), in response  to NES informing  the SEC  that
certain  systems  and controls  relating to  one NES  advisory program  were not
operating effectively. NES is cooperating fully with the SEC.

     Prior to filing the Company's June 30, 2003 Form 10-Q, MetLife announced  a
$31 million after-tax charge resulting from certain improperly deferred expenses
at  an  affiliate, New  England Financial.  MetLife notified  the SEC  about the
nature of this charge prior  to its announcement. The  SEC is pursuing a  formal
investigation   of  the  matter  and  MetLife  is  fully  cooperating  with  the
investigation.

                                       F-54
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The  American  Dental Association  and two  individual providers  have sued
MetLife, Mutual of Omaha and Cigna  in a purported class action lawsuit  brought
in  a  Florida federal  district court.  The plaintiffs  purport to  represent a
nationwide class of in-network providers who allege that their claims are  being
wrongfully reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and programming
of  software. The complaint  alleges federal racketeering  and various state law
theories of liability. MetLife is vigorously defending the case and a motion  to
dismiss has been filed.

     A purported class action in which a policyholder seeks to represent a class
of  owners of participating life insurance policies is pending in state court in
New York. Plaintiff asserts  that Metropolitan Life breached  her policy in  the
manner in which it allocated investment income across lines of business during a
period  ending with the 2000 demutualization. In August 2003, an appellate court
affirmed the dismissal  of fraud claims  in this action.  MetLife is  vigorously
defending the case.

     Regulatory bodies have contacted the Company and have requested information
relating  to  market  timing  and  late trading  of  mutual  funds  and variable
insurance products. The  Company believes  that these inquiries  are similar  to
those  made to  many financial  services companies  as part  of an industry-wide
investigation by various  regulatory agencies into  the practices, policies  and
procedures  relating to  trading in  mutual fund  shares. State  Street Research
Investment Services, one of  the Company's indirect broker/dealer  subsidiaries,
has  entered  into  a settlement  with  the National  Association  of Securities
Dealers ("NASD") resolving all outstanding issues relating to its investigation.
The SEC has commenced  an investigation with respect  to market timing and  late
trading  in a  limited number  of privately-placed  variable insurance contracts
that were  sold through  General American.  The  Company is  in the  process  of
responding  and is fully  cooperating with regard  to these information requests
and investigations. The Company at the present time is not aware of any systemic
problems with respect to such matters that may have a material adverse effect on
the Company's consolidated financial position.

     Various litigation, claims and assessments against the Company, in addition
to those  discussed above  and those  otherwise provided  for in  the  Company's
consolidated  financial statements, have  arisen in the  course of the Company's
business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an
insurer, employer,  investor, investment  advisor and  taxpayer. Further,  state
insurance  regulatory  authorities  and  other  federal  and  state  authorities
regularly make  inquiries and  conduct investigations  concerning the  Company's
compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.

     Summary

     It  is not  feasible to  predict or determine  the ultimate  outcome of all
pending investigations and  legal proceedings  or provide  reasonable ranges  of
potential  losses, except as noted above in connection with specific matters. In
some of the matters referred to above, very large and/or indeterminate  amounts,
including  punitive and treble  damages, are sought. Although  in light of these
considerations it is  possible that an  adverse outcome in  certain cases  could
have  a  material  adverse  effect  upon  the  Company's  consolidated financial
position, based on information currently  known by the Company's management,  in
its  opinion, the outcomes of such  pending investigations and legal proceedings
are not  likely  to  have  such  an effect.  However,  given  the  large  and/or
indeterminate  amounts  sought  in certain  of  these matters  and  the inherent
unpredictability of  litigation,  it is  possible  that an  adverse  outcome  in
certain  matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated  net income  or  cash flows  in particular  quarterly  or
annual periods.

  LEASES

     In  accordance with industry practice, certain of the Company's income from
lease agreements  with  retail tenants  is  contingent  upon the  level  of  the
tenants'  sales revenues. Additionally, the Company, as lessee, has entered into
various lease  and sublease  agreements for  office space,  data processing  and
other equipment.
                                       F-55
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Future  minimum rental  and sublease income,  and minimum  gross rental payments
relating to these lease agreements were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                 GROSS
                                                            RENTAL   SUBLEASE    RENTAL
                                                            INCOME    INCOME    PAYMENTS
                                                            ------   --------   --------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>        <C>
2004......................................................  $  567     $16        $210
2005......................................................  $  522     $15        $192
2006......................................................  $  481     $14        $168
2007......................................................  $  432     $12        $145
2008......................................................  $  366     $10        $113
Thereafter................................................  $1,955     $13        $717
</Table>

  COMMITMENTS TO FUND PARTNERSHIP INVESTMENTS

     The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal
course of  business.  The amounts  of  these unfunded  commitments  were  $1,380
million  and $1,667  million at  December 31,  2003 and  2002, respectively. The
Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in the partnerships over
the next three to five years.

  GUARANTEES

     In  the  course  of  its   business,  the  Company  has  provided   certain
indemnities,  guarantees and commitments  to third parties  pursuant to which it
may be required to make payments now or in the future.

     In  the  context   of  acquisition,  disposition,   investment  and   other
transactions,  the Company  has provided  indemnities and  guarantees, including
those related to tax,  environmental and other  specific liabilities, and  other
indemnities  and guarantees that are triggered  by, among other things, breaches
of  representations,  warranties  or  covenants  provided  by  the  Company.  In
addition,   in   the   normal   course  of   business,   the   Company  provides
indemnifications to counterparties  in contracts  with triggers  similar to  the
foregoing,  as  well  as for  certain  other  liabilities, such  as  third party
lawsuits. These obligations are often subject  to time limitations that vary  in
duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of
law,  such  as applicable  statutes of  limitation. In  some cases,  the maximum
potential obligation  under  the indemnities  and  guarantees is  subject  to  a
contractual  limitation ranging from $1 million  to $800 million, while in other
cases such limitations are not specified  or applicable. Since certain of  these
obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it
is possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees
in the future.

     In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided
in  its charters and by-laws. Also, the  Company indemnifies other of its agents
for liabilities incurred as  a result of their  representation of the  Company's
interests.  Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is  possible
to  determine the  maximum potential amount  due under these  indemnities in the
future.

     The fair value of such indemnities, guarantees and commitments entered into
was insignificant. The  Company's recorded  liability at December  31, 2003  and
2002 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments provided to third parties prior
to January 1, 2003 was insignificant.

     The  Company writes  credit default  swap obligations  requiring payment of
principal due in exchange for the reference credit obligation, depending on  the
nature  or occurrence of specified credit events for the referenced entities. In
the event of  a specified credit  event, the Company's  maximum amount at  risk,
assuming

                                       F-56
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the value  of  the referenced  credits  become  worthless, is  $489  million  at
December  31, 2003. The credit default swaps  expire at various times during the
next four years.

13.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

  PENSION BENEFIT AND OTHER BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company  is  both the  sponsor  and administrator  of  defined  benefit
pension  plans  covering eligible  employees  and sales  representatives  of the
Company. Retirement benefits are based upon years of credited service and  final
average or career average earnings history.

     The  Company  also  provides certain  postemployment  benefits  and certain
postretirement health care  and life  insurance benefits  for retired  employees
through  insurance contracts. Substantially all  of the Company's employees may,
in accordance with the plans  applicable to the postretirement benefits,  become
eligible  for  these benefits  if they  attain  retirement age,  with sufficient
service, while working for the Company.

     The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for all of its pension  and
postretirement benefit plans.

                                       F-57
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  OBLIGATIONS, FUNDED STATUS AND NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COSTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        DECEMBER 31,
                                                             -----------------------------------
                                                             PENSION BENEFITS    OTHER BENEFITS
                                                             -----------------   ---------------
                                                              2003      2002      2003     2002
                                                             -------   -------   ------   ------
                                                                    (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                          <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>
Change in projected benefit obligation:
Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year..........  $4,785    $4,426    $1,878   $1,669
  Service cost.............................................     123       105        38       36
  Interest cost............................................     314       308       122      123
  Acquisitions and divestitures............................      (1)      (73)       --       --
  Actuarial losses.........................................     352       312       167      342
  Curtailments and terminations............................      (7)       (3)       (4)      (2)
  Change in benefits.......................................      (2)       --        (1)    (168)
  Benefits paid............................................    (292)     (290)     (122)    (122)
                                                             ------    ------    ------   ------
Projected benefit obligation at end of year................   5,272     4,785     2,078    1,878
                                                             ------    ------    ------   ------
Change in plan assets:
Contract value of plan assets at beginning of year.........   4,053     4,161       965    1,169
  Actual return on plan assets.............................     634      (179)      112      (92)
  Acquisitions and divestitures............................      (1)      (67)       --       --
  Employer and participant contributions...................     337       428        46       10
  Benefits paid............................................    (292)     (290)     (122)    (122)
                                                             ------    ------    ------   ------
Contract value of plan assets at end of year...............   4,731     4,053     1,001      965
                                                             ------    ------    ------   ------
Under funded...............................................    (541)     (732)   (1,077)    (913)
Unrecognized net asset at transition.......................       3        --        --       --
Unrecognized net actuarial losses..........................   1,451     1,507       364      262
Unrecognized prior service cost............................      82       101      (184)    (208)
                                                             ------    ------    ------   ------
Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost.............................  $  995    $  876    $ (897)  $ (859)
                                                             ======    ======    ======   ======
Qualified plan prepaid pension cost........................  $1,325    $1,171
Non-qualified plan accrued pension cost....................    (474)     (341)
Unamortized prior service cost.............................      14        --
Accumulated other comprehensive loss.......................     130        46
                                                             ------    ------
Prepaid benefit cost.......................................  $  995    $  876
                                                             ======    ======
</Table>

                                       F-58
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The  aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate contract value of
plan assets for the pension plans were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             NON-QUALIFIED
                                          QUALIFIED PLAN         PLAN              TOTAL
                                         -----------------   -------------   -----------------
                                          2003      2002     2003    2002     2003      2002
                                         -------   -------   -----   -----   -------   -------
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                      <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>     <C>       <C>
Aggregate projected benefit
  obligation...........................  $(4,735)  $(4,311)  $(537)  $(474)  $(5,272)  $(4,785)
Aggregate contract value of plan assets
  (principally Company contracts)......    4,731     4,053      --      --     4,731     4,053
                                         -------   -------   -----   -----   -------   -------
Under funded...........................  $    (4)  $  (258)  $(537)  $(474)  $  (541)  $  (732)
                                         =======   =======   =====   =====   =======   =======
</Table>

     The accumulated benefit  obligation for all  defined benefit pension  plans
was   $4,902  million  and  $4,259  million  at  December  31,  2003  and  2002,
respectively.

     Information for pension  plans with  an accumulated  benefit obligation  in
excess of plan assets:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                               2003          2002
                                                              -------       -------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Projected benefit obligation................................   $560          $489
Accumulated benefit obligation..............................   $472          $359
Fair value of plan assets...................................   $ 16          $  9
</Table>

     Information  for pension and postretirement  plans with a projected benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                DECEMBER 31,
                                                     -----------------------------------
                                                     PENSION BENEFITS    OTHER BENEFITS
                                                     -----------------   ---------------
                                                      2003      2002      2003     2002
                                                     -------   -------   ------   ------
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                  <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>
Projected benefit obligation.......................  $5,232    $4,746    $2,078   $1,878
Fair value of plan assets..........................  $4,675    $3,995    $1,001   $  965
</Table>

     The components of net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                           PENSION BENEFITS        OTHER BENEFITS
                                         ---------------------   -------------------
                                         2003    2002    2001    2003   2002   2001
                                         -----   -----   -----   ----   ----   -----
                                                    (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                      <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>    <C>    <C>
Service cost...........................  $ 123   $ 105   $ 104   $ 38   $ 36   $  34
Interest cost..........................    314     308     308    122    123     115
Expected return on plan assets.........   (335)   (356)   (402)   (71)   (93)   (108)
Amortization of prior actuarial losses
  (gains)..............................    103      33      (2)   (12)    (9)    (27)
Curtailment cost.......................     10      11      21      3      4       6
                                         -----   -----   -----   ----   ----   -----
Net periodic benefit cost..............  $ 215   $ 101   $  29   $ 80   $ 61   $  20
                                         =====   =====   =====   ====   ====   =====
</Table>

                                       F-59
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Assumptions

     Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                       --------------------------------------------
                                        PENSION BENEFITS         OTHER BENEFITS
                                       -------------------   ----------------------
                                         2003       2002       2003         2002
                                       ---------   -------   ---------   ----------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>       <C>         <C>
Discount rate........................  3.5%-9.5%   4%-9.5%   6.1%-6.5%   6.5%-7.25%
Rate of compensation increase........    3%-8%      2%-8%       N/A         N/A
</Table>

     Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,
                                  -----------------------------------------------------
                                     PENSION BENEFITS             OTHER BENEFITS
                                  -----------------------   ---------------------------
                                     2003         2002          2003           2002
                                  -----------   ---------   ------------   ------------
<S>                               <C>           <C>         <C>            <C>
Discount rate...................    4%-9.5%      4%-9.5%     6.5%-6.75%     6.5%-7.40%
Expected rate of return on plan
  assets........................   3.5%-10%      4%-10 %    3.79%-8.5 %      5.2%-9%
Rate of compensation increase...     3%-8%        2%-8%         N/A            N/A
</Table>

     For the largest  of the plans  sponsored by the  Company (the  Metropolitan
Life  Retirement  Plan for  United States  Employees,  with a  projected benefit
obligation of $5.2 billion or 98% of all qualified plans at December 31,  2003),
the  discount rate and the range of  rates of future compensation increases used
in determining that plan's benefit obligation at December 31, 2003 were 6.1% and
4% to  8%, respectively.  The discount  rate, expected  rate of  return on  plan
assets,  and  the  range  of  rates of  future  compensation  increases  used in
determining that plan's  net periodic  benefit cost  at December  31, 2003  were
6.75%,  8.5% and 4% to 8%, respectively. The discount rate is based on the yield
of a hypothetical portfolio  of high-quality debt  instruments available on  the
valuation  date, which would provide the necessary  future cash flows to pay the
aggregate projected benefit obligation when due. The expected rate of return  on
plan  assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in
which the plan invests, weighted  by target allocation percentages.  Anticipated
future  performance is based on long-term  historical returns of the plan assets
by sector, adjusted for the Company's long-term expectations on the  performance
of  the markets. While  the precise expected return  derived using this approach
will fluctuate from year to year, the Company's policy is to hold this long-term
assumption constant as long as it remains within a reasonable tolerance from the
derived rate. The expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that  plan's
valuation  in 2004 is  currently anticipated to  be 8.5%. The  discount rates of
3.5% and  9.5% used  in determining  pension benefit  obligations, the  discount
rates  of 4% and  9.5% used in  determining net periodic  pension costs, and the
expected rates of return on pension plan assets of 3.5% and 10% are attributable
to the Company's international subsidiaries in Taiwan and Mexico,  respectively.
The  rates of compensation increase of 3% and 2% in 2003 and 2002, respectively,
is  attributable  to  the  Company's  subsidiary  in  Taiwan.  These  rates  are
indicative of the economic environments in those countries. The expected rate of
return  on postretirement  benefit plan assets  of 3.79% is  attributable to the
Company's Canadian subsidiary and reflects the nature of the investments.

     The assumed health care cost trend rates used in measuring the  accumulated
nonpension postretirement benefit obligation were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                     -------------------------------------------------
                                               2003                      2002
                                     ------------------------   ----------------------
<S>                                  <C>                        <C>
Pre-Medicare eligible claims.......  8.5% down to 5% in 2010    9% down to 5% in 2010
Medicare eligible claims...........  10.5% down to 5% in 2014   11% down to 5% in 2014
</Table>

                                       F-60
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Assumed  health care cost trend rates may  have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for health care plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              ONE PERCENT   ONE PERCENT
                                                               INCREASE      DECREASE
                                                              -----------   -----------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Effect on total of service and interest cost components.....     $ 10          $  (9)
Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation.....     $108          $(105)
</Table>

  PLAN ASSETS

     The weighted  average allocation  of pension  plan and  other benefit  plan
assets is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                    DECEMBER 31,
                                                        -------------------------------------
                                                        PENSION BENEFITS      OTHER BENEFITS
                                                        -----------------     ---------------
                                                         2003       2002      2003      2002
                                                        ------     ------     -----     -----
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>
ASSET CATEGORY
Equity securities.....................................    52%        38%        38%       36%
Fixed maturities......................................    39%        52%        61%       63%
Real estate...........................................     9%        10%        --        --
Other.................................................    --         --          1%        1%
                                                         ---        ---        ---       ---
  Total...............................................   100%       100%       100%      100%
                                                         ===        ===        ===       ===
</Table>

     The  weighted average target  allocation of pension  plan and other benefit
plan assets for 2004 is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              PENSION     OTHER
                                                              BENEFITS   BENEFITS
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
ASSET CATEGORY
Equity securities...........................................  35%-60%    25%-40%
Fixed maturities............................................  35%-70%    50%-80%
Real estate.................................................   0%-15%      N/A
Other.......................................................   0%-20%     0%-10%
</Table>

     Target  allocations  of  assets  are  determined  with  the  objective   of
maximizing  returns  and minimizing  volatility of  net assets  through adequate
asset diversification and partial  liability immunization. Adjustments are  made
to  target  allocations  based on  the  Company's  assessment of  the  impact of
economic factors and market conditions.

  CASH FLOWS

     In January 2004, the Company contributed $450 million to its pension  plans
and $89 million to its other benefit plans during 2004.

                                       F-61
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The  following benefit payments,  which reflect expected  future service as
appropriate, are expected to be paid:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              PENSION       OTHER
                                                              BENEFITS     BENEFITS
                                                              --------     --------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
2004........................................................   $  329        $117
2005........................................................   $  301        $121
2006........................................................   $  313        $125
2007........................................................   $  319        $130
2008........................................................   $  328        $134
2009-2013...................................................   $1,828        $729
</Table>

  SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLANS

     The Company sponsors  savings and  investment plans  for substantially  all
employees  under which the Company matches  a portion of employee contributions.
The Company contributed $59 million, $58  million and $60 million for the  years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

14.  EQUITY

  PREFERRED STOCK

     On  September 29,  1999, the Holding  Company adopted  a stockholder rights
plan (the "rights  plan") under  which each  outstanding share  of common  stock
issued between April 4, 2000 and the distribution date (as defined in the rights
plan)  will be  coupled with  a stockholder right.  Each right  will entitle the
holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred  Stock.  Each  one  one-hundredth  of  a  share  of  Series  A  Junior
Participating  Preferred Stock will have economic and voting terms equivalent to
one share of  common stock. Until  it is  exercised, the right  itself will  not
entitle  the holder thereof to any rights  as a stockholder, including the right
to receive dividends or to vote at stockholder meetings.

     Stockholder rights are  not exercisable  until the  distribution date,  and
will  expire at the close of business  on April 4, 2010, unless earlier redeemed
or exchanged by  the Holding  Company. The rights  plan is  designed to  protect
stockholders  in the event of unsolicited  offers to acquire the Holding Company
and other coercive takeover tactics.

  COMMON STOCK

     On February 19, 2002, the Holding Company's Board of Directors authorized a
$1 billion  common  stock  repurchase  program. This  program  began  after  the
completion  of the March 28, 2001 and June 27, 2000 repurchase programs, each of
which authorized  the repurchase  of $1  billion of  common stock.  Under  these
authorizations,  the Holding Company may purchase  common stock from the MetLife
Policyholder Trust, in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions.

     On August 7, 2001,  the Company purchased 10  million shares of its  common
stock  as part  of the  sale of  25 million  shares of  MetLife common  stock by
Santusa Holdings, S.L., an  affiliate of Banco  Santander Central Hispano,  S.A.
The  sale by Santusa  Holdings, S.L. was  made pursuant to  a shelf registration
statement, effective June 29, 2001.

     The Company acquired 2,997,200, 15,244,492 and 45,242,966 shares of  common
stock  for $97 million, $471  million and $1,322 million  during the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,  respectively. During the year ended  December
31,  2003, 59,904,925 shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for
$1,667 million, of which  59,771,221 shares were issued  in connection with  the
settlement of the

                                       F-62
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

purchase  contracts  (see Note  8) with  cash  proceeds of  approximately $1,006
million. During the years  ended December 31, 2002  and 2001, 16,379 and  67,578
shares  of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $438 thousand and $1
million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, the Company had approximately  $709
million remaining on its existing share repurchase authorization.

  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     Under  the New York  Insurance Law, Metropolitan  Life is permitted without
prior insurance  regulatory  clearance to  pay  a stockholder  dividend  to  the
Holding  Company as long  as the aggregate  amount of all  such dividends in any
calendar year  does  not  exceed  the  lesser of  (i)  10%  of  its  surplus  to
policyholders  as  of  the immediately  preceding  calendar year,  and  (ii) its
statutory net gain from operations  for the immediately preceding calendar  year
(excluding realized capital gains). Metropolitan Life will be permitted to pay a
cash dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts
only  if it  files notice of  its intention to  declare such a  dividend and the
amount  thereof  with  the  Superintendent  and  the  Superintendent  does   not
disapprove   the   distribution.  Under   the  New   York  Insurance   Law,  the
Superintendent  has  broad  discretion  in  determining  whether  the  financial
condition  of a stock life  insurance company would support  the payment of such
dividends  to  its  stockholders.   The  Department  has  established   informal
guidelines for such determinations. The guidelines, among other things, focus on
the  insurer's  overall financial  condition  and profitability  under statutory
accounting practices. For the  year ended December  31, 2003, Metropolitan  Life
paid  to  MetLife, Inc.  $698  million in  dividends  for which  prior insurance
regulatory clearance was not required and $750 million in special dividends,  as
approved   by  the  Superintendent.  For  the  year  ended  December  31,  2002,
Metropolitan Life paid  to MetLife,  Inc. $535  million in  dividends for  which
prior  insurance  regulatory  clearance was  not  required and  $369  million in
special dividends,  as  approved  by  the Superintendent.  For  the  year  ended
December  31,  2001, Metropolitan  Life paid  to MetLife,  Inc. $721  million in
dividends for which prior  insurance regulatory clearance  was not required  and
$3,033  million  in special  dividends, as  approved  by the  Superintendent. At
December 31, 2003, the maximum amount of  the dividend which may be paid to  the
Holding  Company  from  Metropolitan  Life  in  2004,  without  prior regulatory
approval is $798  million. Metropolitan  Life could  pay the  Holding Company  a
dividend of $798 million without prior approval of the Superintendent.

     Under the Delaware Insurance Law, MIAC is permitted without prior insurance
regulatory  clearance to  pay a stockholder  dividend to the  Holding Company as
long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not
exceed the  greater  of (i)  10%  of its  surplus  to policyholders  as  of  the
immediately  preceding  calendar  year, and  (ii)  its statutory  net  gain from
operations for  the  immediately  preceding calendar  year  (excluding  realized
capital  gains). MIAC will  be permitted to  pay a cash  dividend to the Holding
Company in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice  of
its  intention  to declare  such  a dividend  and  the amount  thereof  with the
Superintendent and  the Superintendent  does  not disapprove  the  distribution.
Under  the Delaware  Insurance Law, the  Superintendent has  broad discretion in
determining whether the financial  condition of a  stock life insurance  company
would  support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders. The Department
has established  informal guidelines  for such  determinations. The  guidelines,
among  other  things, focus  on the  insurer's  overall financial  condition and
profitability under statutory accounting practices.  MIAC paid to MetLife,  Inc.
$104 million in dividends for which prior insurance regulatory clearance was not
required and $94 million in special dividends, as approved by the Superintendent
for  the year ended December 31, 2003. For the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001, respectively, MIAC paid  to MetLife, Inc. $25  million and $31 million  in
dividends for which prior insurance regulatory clearance was not required. As of
December  31, 2003, the maximum amount of the  dividend which may be paid to the
Holding Company from MIAC  in 2004, without prior  regulatory approval, is  $185
million.

     Under  the Rhode Island  Insurance Law, Metropolitan  Property and Casualty
Insurance Company is permitted without  prior insurance regulatory clearance  to
pay  a stockholder  dividend to  the Holding  Company as  long as  the aggregate
amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser  of
                                       F-63
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

(i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar
year,  and (ii) next preceding three year  earnings reduced by capital gains and
dividends paid  to stockholders.  Metropolitan Property  and Casualty  Insurance
Company  will be permitted to pay a  stockholder dividend to the Holding Company
in excess of  the lesser  of such two  amounts only  if it files  notice of  its
intention   to  declare  such  a  dividend  and  the  amount  thereof  with  the
Superintendent and the Superintendent does not disapprove the distribution.  For
the  year ended December 31, 2003,  Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
Company paid to MetLife, Inc. $75 million in dividends for which prior insurance
regulatory clearance was  not required.  As of  December 31,  2003, the  maximum
amount  of  the  dividend  which  may  be  paid  to  the  Holding  Company  from
Metropolitan Property  and Casualty  Insurance Company  in 2004,  without  prior
regulatory approval, is $200 million.

  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

     Under  the MetLife,  Inc. 2000 Stock  Incentive Plan  (the "Stock Incentive
Plan"), awards granted may  be in the form  of non-qualified or incentive  stock
options  qualifying under Section  422A of the Internal  Revenue Code. Under the
MetLife, Inc.  2000  Directors Stock  Plan,  as amended  (the  "Directors  Stock
Plan"), awards granted may be in the form of stock awards or non-qualified stock
options  or a combination of the foregoing  to outside Directors of the Company.
The aggregate number  of shares of  stock that  may be awarded  under the  Stock
Incentive  Plan  is subject  to a  maximum  limit of  37,823,333 shares  for the
duration of the plan. The  Directors Stock Plan has  a maximum limit of  500,000
share awards.

     All  options granted have an exercise price  equal to the fair market value
price of  the Company's  common stock  on the  date of  grant, and  an  option's
maximum term is ten years. Certain options under the Stock Incentive Plan become
exercisable  over a three-year  period commencing with the  date of grant, while
other options become exercisable  three years after the  date of grant.  Options
issued under the Directors Stock Plan are exercisable immediately.

     The  fair value of each option grant is  estimated on the date of the grant
using the  Black-Scholes  options-pricing  model  with  the  following  weighted
average assumptions used for grants for the:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                 -------------------------------------
                                                    2003          2002         2001
                                                 -----------   -----------   ---------
<S>                                              <C>           <C>           <C>
Dividend yield.................................  0.68%-0.79%      0.68%        0.68%
Risk-free rate of return.......................  2.71%-4.03%   4.74%-5.52%     5.72%
Volatility.....................................  37.0%-38.7%   25.3%-30.3%    31.60%
Expected duration..............................    6 years       6 years     4-6 years
</Table>

                                       F-64
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A  summary  of  the  status  of options  included  in  the  Company's Stock
Incentive Plan and Directors Stock Plan is presented below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      WEIGHTED                       WEIGHTED
                                                      AVERAGE         OPTIONS        AVERAGE
                                       OPTIONS     EXERCISE PRICE   EXERCISABLE   EXERCISE PRICE
                                      ----------   --------------   -----------   --------------
<S>                                   <C>          <C>              <C>           <C>
Outstanding at December 31, 2000....          --       $   --               --        $   --
Granted.............................  12,263,550       $29.93               --        $   --
Exercised...........................          --       $   --               --        $   --
Canceled/Expired....................  (1,146,866)      $29.95               --        $   --
                                      ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 2001....  11,116,684       $29.93               --        $   --
Granted.............................   7,275,855       $30.35               --        $   --
Exercised...........................     (11,401)      $29.95               --        $   --
Canceled/Expired....................  (2,121,508)      $30.07               --        $   --
                                      ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 2002....  16,259,630       $30.10        1,357,034        $30.01
Granted.............................   5,634,439       $26.13               --        $   --
Exercised...........................     (20,054)      $30.02               --        $   --
Canceled/Expired....................  (1,578,987)      $29.45               --        $   --
                                      ----------
Outstanding December 31, 2003.......  20,295,028       $29.05        4,566,265        $30.15
                                      ==========
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                             ------------------------
                                                              2003     2002     2001
                                                             ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                          <C>      <C>      <C>
Weighted average fair value of options granted.............  $10.41   $10.48   $10.29
                                                             ======   ======   ======
</Table>

     The following table summarizes information about stock options  outstanding
at December 31, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                        WEIGHTED
                                        AVERAGE                           NUMBER
                       NUMBER          REMAINING        WEIGHTED      EXERCISABLE AT      WEIGHTED
   RANGE OF        OUTSTANDING AT     CONTRACTUAL       AVERAGE        DECEMBER 31,       AVERAGE
EXERCISE PRICES   DECEMBER 31, 2003   LIFE (YEARS)   EXERCISE PRICE        2003        EXERCISE PRICE
---------------   -----------------   ------------   --------------   --------------   --------------
<S>               <C>                 <C>            <C>              <C>              <C>
$23.75-$26.75         5,180,950           9.12           $25.97             9,334          $23.75
$26.76-$28.75           201,336           8.52           $27.41             2,336          $28.10
$28.76-$30.75        14,707,077           7.28           $30.11         4,471,306          $30.12
$30.76-$32.75           146,135           8.18           $31.86            58,759          $31.72
$32.76-$33.64            59,530           9.27           $33.26            24,530          $33.64
                     ----------                                         ---------
                     20,295,028           7.77           $29.05         4,566,265          $30.15
                     ==========                                         =========
</Table>

     Effective  January 1,  2003, the  Company elected  to apply  the fair value
method of accounting  for stock  options granted  by the  Company subsequent  to
December 31, 2002. As permitted under SFAS 148, options granted prior to January
1, 2003 will continue to be accounted for under APB 25. Had compensation expense
for  grants awarded prior to January 1, 2003 been determined based on fair value
at the date of grant in

                                       F-65
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

accordance  with SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ("SFAS 123"),
the Company's earnings and earnings per share amounts would have been reduced to
the following pro-forma amounts:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------------------
                                                                2003       2002      2001
                                                              --------   --------   -------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT
                                                                     PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Net Income..................................................   $2,217     $1,605     $ 473
Charge for conversion of company-obligated mandatorily
  redeemable securities of a subsidiary trust(1)............      (21)        --        --
                                                               ------     ------     -----
Net income available to common shareholders.................   $2,196     $1,605     $ 473
                                                               ======     ======     =====
Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included in
  reported net income, net of related tax effects...........   $   13     $    1     $   1
Deduct: Total Stock-based employee compensation determined
  under fair value based method for all awards, net of
  related tax effects.......................................      (42)       (33)      (20)
                                                               ------     ------     -----
Pro forma net income available to common
  shareholders(2)(3)........................................   $2,167     $1,573     $ 454
                                                               ======     ======     =====
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
As reported.................................................   $ 2.98     $ 2.28     $0.64
                                                               ======     ======     =====
Pro forma(2)(3).............................................   $ 2.94     $ 2.23     $0.61
                                                               ======     ======     =====
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
As reported.................................................   $ 2.94     $ 2.20     $0.62
                                                               ======     ======     =====
Pro forma(2)(3).............................................   $ 2.90     $ 2.15     $0.59
                                                               ======     ======     =====
</Table>

---------------

 (1) See Note 8 for a discussion of  this charge included in the calculation  of
     net income available to common shareholders.

 (2) The  pro forma earnings  disclosures are not  necessarily representative of
     the effects on net income and earnings per share in future years.

 (3) Includes the Company's ownership share of stock compensation costs  related
     to  the Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated incentive stock plan and
     the stock compensation costs related to  the incentive stock plans at  SSRM
     Holdings, Inc. determined in accordance with SFAS 123.

     For  the  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002  and  2001,  stock-based
compensation expense related to the Company's Stock Incentive Plan and Directors
Stock Plan  was  $20  million,  $2.1 million  and  $1.3  million,  respectively,
including  stock-based  compensation for  non-employees  of $550  thousand, $2.1
million and $1.3 million, respectively.

  STATUTORY EQUITY AND INCOME

     Applicable insurance  department  regulations require  that  the  insurance
subsidiaries prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with statutory
accounting  practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the
state of domicile. Statutory accounting practices primarily differ from GAAP  by
charging  policy acquisition costs  to expense as  incurred, establishing future
policy benefit  liabilities  using different  actuarial  assumptions,  reporting
surplus  notes as surplus instead of debt  and valuing securities on a different
basis.

                                       F-66
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     As of December 31,  2001, New York Statutory  Accounting Practices did  not
provide  for deferred income taxes. The Department has adopted a modification to
its regulations, effective December 31, 2002, with respect to the  admissibility
of deferred taxes by New York insurers, subject to certain limitations.

     Statutory  net income of  Metropolitan Life, as  filed with the Department,
was $2,169  million, $1,455  million  and $2,782  million  for the  years  ended
December 31, 2003 2002 and 2001, respectively; statutory capital and surplus, as
filed,  was $7,978  million and  $6,986 million at  December 31,  2003 and 2002,
respectively.

     Statutory net income of MIAC, which is domiciled in Delaware, as filed with
the Insurance Department  of Delaware,  was $341  million, $34  million and  $26
million  for the  years ended  December 31,  2003, 2002  and 2001, respectively;
statutory capital and surplus, as filed,  was $1,051 million and $1,037  million
at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     Statutory  net  income  of  Metropolitan Property  and  Casualty,  which is
domiciled in  Rhode Island,  as filed  with the  Insurance Department  of  Rhode
Island,  was $214  million, $173  million and  $61 million  for the  years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and  2001, respectively; statutory capital and  surplus,
as  filed, was $1,996 million and $1,964  million at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

     The National Association  of Insurance Commissioners  ("NAIC") adopted  the
Codification  of Statutory Accounting Principles  (the "Codification"), which is
intended to standardize regulatory accounting  and reporting to state  insurance
departments, and became effective January 1, 2001. However, statutory accounting
principles  continue to  be established by  individual state  laws and permitted
practices. The Department  required adoption of  the Codification, with  certain
modifications,  for the preparation of  statutory financial statements effective
January 1, 2001. Further modifications by state insurance departments may impact
the effect  of  the  Codification  on  the  statutory  capital  and  surplus  of
Metropolitan Life and the Holding Company's other insurance subsidiaries.

 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The  following table  sets forth the  reclassification adjustments required
for the years  ended December  31, 2003, 2002  and 2001  in other  comprehensive
income   (loss)   that   are  included   as   part   of  net   income   for  the

                                       F-67
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

current year that  have been reported  as a part  of other comprehensive  income
(loss) in the current or prior year:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                             ------------------------
                                                              2003     2002     2001
                                                             ------   ------   ------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                          <C>      <C>      <C>
Holding gains on investments arising during the year.......  $1,549   $3,755   $1,343
Income tax effect of holding gains.........................    (582)  (1,179)    (530)
Reclassification adjustments:
  Recognized holding losses included in current year
     income................................................     330      336      510
  Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts
     associated with investments...........................    (168)    (526)    (488)
  Recognized holding gains allocated to other policyholder
     amounts...............................................    (215)    (145)    (134)
  Income tax effect........................................      20      105       45
Allocation of holding losses on investments relating to
  other policyholder amounts...............................    (391)  (2,832)     (69)
Income tax effect of allocation of holding losses to other
  policyholder amounts.....................................     147      889       27
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Net unrealized investment gains............................     690      403      704
Foreign currency translation adjustment....................     177      (69)     (60)
Minimum pension liability adjustment.......................     (82)      --      (18)
                                                             ------   ------   ------
Other comprehensive income.................................  $  785   $  334   $  626
                                                             ======   ======   ======
</Table>

15.  OTHER EXPENSES

     Other expenses were comprised of the following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ---------------------------
                                                           2003      2002      2001
                                                          -------   -------   -------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Compensation............................................  $ 2,685   $ 2,481   $ 2,459
Commissions.............................................    2,474     2,000     1,651
Interest and debt issue costs...........................      478       403       332
Amortization of policy acquisition costs (excludes
  amounts directly related to net investment gains
  (losses)) of $(31), $5 and $25, respectively).........    1,818     1,639     1,413
Capitalization of policy acquisition costs..............   (2,792)   (2,340)   (2,039)
Rent, net of sublease income............................      254       295       282
Minority interest.......................................      110        73        57
Other...................................................    2,274     2,464     2,867
                                                          -------   -------   -------
  Total other expenses..................................  $ 7,301   $ 7,015   $ 7,022
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                       F-68
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

16.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The following presents a reconciliation of the weighted average shares used
in  calculating basic  earnings per share  to those used  in calculating diluted
earnings per share:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                             ------------------------------------------------------
                                                   2003               2002               2001
                                             ----------------   ----------------   ----------------
                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                          <C>                <C>                <C>
Weighted average common stock outstanding
  for basic earnings per share.............     737,903,107        704,599,115        741,041,654
Incremental shares from assumed:
  Conversion of forward purchase
     contracts.............................       8,293,269         24,596,950         25,974,114
  Exercise of stock options................          68,111              5,233              1,133
  Issuance under deferred stock
     compensation..........................         579,810                 --                 --
                                               ------------       ------------       ------------
Weighted average common stock outstanding
  for diluted earnings per share...........     746,844,297        729,201,298        767,016,901
                                               ============       ============       ============
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS..........    $      1,943       $      1,134       $        366
Charge for conversion of company-obligated
  mandatorily redeemable securities of a
  subsidiary trust(1)......................             (21)                --                 --
                                               ------------       ------------       ------------
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS AVAILABLE
  TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS...................    $      1,922       $      1,134       $        366
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Basic earnings per share.................    $       2.60       $       1.61       $       0.49
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Diluted earnings per share...............    $       2.57       $       1.56       $       0.48
                                               ============       ============       ============
INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
  AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS.........    $        300       $        471       $        107
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Basic earnings per share.................    $       0.41       $       0.67       $       0.14
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Diluted earnings per share...............    $       0.40       $       0.65       $       0.14
                                               ============       ============       ============
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING,
  NET OF INCOME TAXES......................    $        (26)      $         --       $         --
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Basic earnings per share.................    $      (0.04)      $         --       $         --
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Diluted earnings per share...............    $      (0.03)      $         --       $         --
                                               ============       ============       ============
</Table>

                                       F-69
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                             ------------------------------------------------------
                                                   2003               2002               2001
                                             ----------------   ----------------   ----------------
                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                          <C>                <C>                <C>
NET INCOME.................................    $      2,217       $      1,605       $        473
CHARGE FOR CONVERSION OF COMPANY-OBLIGATED
  MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE SECURITIES OF A
  SUBSIDIARY TRUST(1)......................             (21)                --                 --
                                               ------------       ------------       ------------
NET INCOME AVAILABLE TO COMMON
  SHAREHOLDERS.............................    $      2,196       $      1,605       $        473
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Basic earnings per share.................    $       2.98       $       2.28       $       0.64
                                               ============       ============       ============
  Diluted earnings per share...............    $       2.94       $       2.20       $       0.62
                                               ============       ============       ============
</Table>

---------------

(1) See Note 8 for a  discussion of this charge  included in the calculation  of
    net income available to common shareholders.

17.  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

     The  unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2002 are summarized in the table below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                            -----------------------------------------------
                                            MARCH 31   JUNE 30   SEPTEMBER 30   DECEMBER 31
                                            --------   -------   ------------   -----------
                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                         <C>        <C>       <C>            <C>
2003
Total revenues............................   $8,364    $8,862       $8,816        $9,747
Total expenses............................   $7,952    $8,079       $8,109        $9,019
Income from continuing operations.........   $  296    $  571       $  560        $  516
Income from discontinued operations, net
  of income taxes.........................   $   66    $    9       $   14        $  211
Income before cumulative effect of change
  in accounting...........................   $  362    $  580       $  574        $  727
Net income................................   $  362    $  580       $  574        $  701
Basic earnings per share:
  Income from continuing operations
     available to common shareholders.....   $ 0.39    $ 0.78       $ 0.74        $ 0.68
  Income from discontinued operations, net
     of income taxes......................   $ 0.09    $ 0.01       $ 0.02        $ 0.28
  Income before cumulative effect of
     change in accounting available to
     common shareholders..................   $ 0.49    $ 0.79       $ 0.75        $ 0.96
  Net income available to common
     shareholders.........................   $ 0.49    $ 0.79       $ 0.75        $ 0.92
Diluted earnings per share:
  Income from continuing operations
     available to common shareholders.....   $ 0.38    $ 0.78       $ 0.74        $ 0.68
  Income from discontinued operations, net
     of income taxes......................   $ 0.09    $ 0.01       $ 0.02        $ 0.28
  Income before cumulative effect of
     change in accounting available to
     common shareholders..................   $ 0.47    $ 0.79       $ 0.75        $ 0.95
</Table>

                                       F-70
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                            -----------------------------------------------
                                            MARCH 31   JUNE 30   SEPTEMBER 30   DECEMBER 31
                                            --------   -------   ------------   -----------
                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                         <C>        <C>       <C>            <C>
  Net income available to common
     shareholders.........................   $ 0.47    $ 0.79       $ 0.75        $ 0.92
2002
Total revenues............................   $7,963    $8,189       $8,111        $8,803
Total expenses............................   $7,482    $7,669       $7,686        $8,593
Income from continuing operations.........   $  299    $  364       $  307        $  164
Income from discontinued operations, net
  of income taxes.........................   $   25    $   23       $   26        $  397
Income before cumulative effect of change
  in accounting...........................   $  324    $  387       $  333        $  561
Net income................................   $  329    $  387       $  328        $  561
Basic earnings per share:
  Income from continuing operations
     available to common shareholders.....   $ 0.42    $ 0.52       $ 0.44        $ 0.23
  Income from discontinued operations, net
     of income taxes......................   $ 0.04    $ 0.03       $ 0.04        $ 0.57
  Income before cumulative effect of
     change in accounting available to
     common shareholders..................   $ 0.46    $ 0.55       $ 0.47        $ 0.80
  Net income available to common
     shareholders.........................   $ 0.46    $ 0.55       $ 0.47        $ 0.80
Diluted earnings per share:
  Income from continuing operations
     available to common shareholders.....   $ 0.40    $ 0.50       $ 0.42        $ 0.23
  Income from discontinued operations, net
     of income taxes......................   $ 0.03    $ 0.03       $ 0.04        $ 0.55
  Income before cumulative effect of
     change in accounting available to
     common shareholders..................   $ 0.44    $ 0.53       $ 0.46        $ 0.78
  Net income available to common
     shareholders.........................   $ 0.44    $ 0.53       $ 0.45        $ 0.78
</Table>

     Unaudited net income for  the three months ended  June 30, 2003 includes  a
$64  million  after-tax benefit  from a  reduction  of a  previously established
liability related to the  Company's race-conscious underwriting settlement,  $62
million  of  after-tax  earnings  from  the  merger  of  the  Company's  Mexican
operations and a reduction in policyholder liabilities resulting from the change
in reserve methodology and a $31 million after-tax charge related to  previously
deferred expenses. Unaudited net income for the three months ended September 30,
2003  includes a $28 million after-tax benefit  from a reduction of a previously
established liability  related  to  the  Company's  race-conscious  underwriting
settlement  and a  $36 million benefit  from a  revision to the  2002 income tax
estimates.

     Unaudited net income for the three  months ended March 31, 2002 includes  a
$48  million after-tax charge to cover costs associated with the resolution of a
federal government investigation of General American's former Medicare business.
Unaudited net income for  the three months  ended June 30,  2002 includes a  $30
million after-tax reduction of a previously established liability related to the
Company's  sales practice class action settlement  in 1999. Unaudited net income
for the three months ended December  31, 2002 includes a $169 million  after-tax
charge to cover costs associated with the asbestos-related claims, a $20 million
after-tax  reduction of a previously established liability to the Company's 2001
business

                                       F-71
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

realignment initiatives and a  $17 million after-tax  reduction of a  previously
established  disability insurance  liability related  to the  September 11, 2001
tragedies.

18.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The Company provides insurance and  financial services to customers in  the
United  States, Canada,  Central America,  Europe, South  America, South Africa,
Asia and  Australia.  The  Company's  business is  divided  into  six  segments:
Institutional,  Individual, Auto  & Home,  International, Reinsurance  and Asset
Management. These segments  are managed separately  because they either  provide
different  products and services, require different strategies or have different
technology requirements.

     Institutional offers a broad  range of group  insurance and retirement  and
savings  products  and  services, including  group  life  insurance, non-medical
health insurance, such as  short and long-term  disability, long-term care,  and
dental insurance, and other insurance products and services. Individual offers a
wide  variety of  individual insurance  and investment  products, including life
insurance, annuities and mutual funds. Auto & Home provides insurance coverages,
including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability
insurance. International provides life insurance, accident and health insurance,
annuities and retirement and  savings products to  both individuals and  groups,
and  auto and homeowners coverage to individuals. Reinsurance provides primarily
reinsurance  of  life  and  annuity  policies  in  North  America  and   various
international markets. Additionally, reinsurance of critical illness policies is
provided  in  select international  markets. Asset  Management provides  a broad
variety  of  asset   management  products  and   services  to  individuals   and
institutions.

     Set forth in the tables below is certain financial information with respect
to  the Company's operating segments as of  and for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001.  The accounting policies  of the segments  are the same  as
those  of  the Company,  except for  the  method of  capital allocation  and the
accounting for gains and losses from intercompany sales, which are eliminated in
consolidation. The  Company allocates  capital  to each  segment based  upon  an
internal  capital allocation system that allows  the Company to more effectively
manage its  capital. The  Company evaluates  the performance  of each  operating
segment based upon net income excluding certain net investment gains and losses,
net  of income taxes,  and the impact  from the cumulative  effect of changes in
accounting, net  of  income taxes.  Scheduled  periodic settlement  payments  on
derivative  instruments not qualifying for hedge  accounting are included in net
investment gains(losses).  The  Company allocates  certain  non-recurring  items
(e.g.,   expenses  associated  with  the   resolution  of  proceedings  alleging
race-conscious   underwriting    practices,   sales    practices   claims    and
asbestos-related claims) to Corporate & Other.

                                       F-72
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
<Table>
<Caption>
AT OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED                                       AUTO &
DECEMBER 31, 2003                 INSTITUTIONAL   INDIVIDUAL    HOME    INTERNATIONAL   REINSURANCE
------------------------          -------------   ----------   ------   -------------   -----------
                                                        (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                               <C>             <C>          <C>      <C>             <C>
Premiums........................    $  9,093       $  4,344    $2,908      $1,678         $2,668
Universal life and
  investment-type product policy
  fees..........................         635          1,589        --         272             --
Net investment income...........       4,038          6,201       158         502            473
Other revenues..................         592            407        32          80             49
Net investment gains (losses)...        (204)          (130)      (15)          4             31
Policyholder benefits and
  claims........................       9,932          5,183     2,139       1,454          2,136
Interest credited to
  policyholder account
  balances......................         915          1,793        --         143            184
Policyholder dividends..........         198          1,700         1          55             21
Other expenses..................       1,784          2,880       756         659            740
Income (loss) from continuing
  operations before provision
  (benefit) for income taxes....       1,325            855       187         225            140
Income from discontinued
  operations, net of income
  taxes.........................          30             30        --          --             --
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting, net of income
  taxes.........................         (26)            --        --          --             --
Net income......................         849            601       157         208             92
Total assets....................     113,743        165,774     4,698       9,935         12,833
Deferred policy acquisition
  costs.........................         739          8,817       180       1,046          2,160
Goodwill, net...................          59            206       157          85            100
Separate account assets.........      35,632         39,619        --         504             13
Policyholder liabilities........      61,599        100,278     2,943       7,179          9,783
Separate account liabilities....      35,632         39,619        --         504             13

<Caption>
AT OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED            ASSET      CORPORATE &
DECEMBER 31, 2003                 MANAGEMENT      OTHER       TOTAL
------------------------          ----------   -----------   -------
                                        (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                               <C>          <C>           <C>
Premiums........................     $ --        $   (18)    $20,673
Universal life and
  investment-type product policy
  fees..........................       --             --       2,496
Net investment income...........       66            198      11,636
Other revenues..................      143             39       1,342
Net investment gains (losses)...        9            (53)       (358)
Policyholder benefits and
  claims........................       --              4      20,848
Interest credited to
  policyholder account
  balances......................       --             --       3,035
Policyholder dividends..........       --             --       1,975
Other expenses..................      182            300       7,301
Income (loss) from continuing
  operations before provision
  (benefit) for income taxes....       36           (138)      2,630
Income from discontinued
  operations, net of income
  taxes.........................       --            240         300
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting, net of income
  taxes.........................       --             --         (26)
Net income......................       22            288       2,217
Total assets....................      302         19,556     326,841
Deferred policy acquisition
  costs.........................       --              1      12,943
Goodwill, net...................       18              3         628
Separate account assets.........       --            (12)     75,756
Policyholder liabilities........       --         (2,211)    179,571
Separate account liabilities....       --            (12)     75,756
</Table>
<Table>
<Caption>
AT OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED                                       AUTO &
DECEMBER 31, 2002                 INSTITUTIONAL   INDIVIDUAL    HOME    INTERNATIONAL   REINSURANCE
------------------------          -------------   ----------   ------   -------------   -----------
                                                        (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                               <C>             <C>          <C>      <C>             <C>
Premiums........................     $8,245        $  4,507    $2,828      $1,511         $2,005
Universal life and
  investment-type product policy
  fees..........................        624           1,379        --         144             --
Net investment income...........      3,918           6,244       177         461            421
Other revenues..................        609             418        26          14             43
Net investment gains (losses)...       (494)           (144)      (46)         (9)             2
Policyholder benefits and
  claims........................      9,339           5,220     2,019       1,388          1,554
Interest credited to
  policyholder account
  balances......................        932           1,793        --          79            146
Policyholder dividends..........        115           1,770        --          35             22
Other expenses..................      1,531           2,629       793         507            622
Income (loss) from continuing
  operations before provision
  (benefit) for income taxes....        985             992       173         112            127
Income from discontinued
  operations, net of income
  taxes.........................        121             199        --          --             --
Net income (loss)...............        759             826       132          84             84
Total assets (1)................     98,234         145,152     4,540       8,301          9,924
Deferred policy acquisition
  costs.........................        608           8,521       175         945          1,477
Goodwill, net...................         62             223       155         193             96
Separate account assets.........     31,935          27,457        --         307             11
Policyholder liabilities........     55,497          95,813     2,673       5,883          7,387
Separate account liabilities....     31,935          27,457        --         307             11

<Caption>
AT OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED            ASSET      CORPORATE &
DECEMBER 31, 2002                 MANAGEMENT      OTHER       TOTAL
------------------------          ----------   -----------   -------
                                        (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                               <C>          <C>           <C>
Premiums........................     $ --        $   (19)    $19,077
Universal life and
  investment-type product policy
  fees..........................       --             --       2,147
Net investment income...........       59            (19)     11,261
Other revenues..................      166             56       1,332
Net investment gains (losses)...       (4)           (56)       (751)
Policyholder benefits and
  claims........................       --              3      19,523
Interest credited to
  policyholder account
  balances......................       --             --       2,950
Policyholder dividends..........       --             --       1,942
Other expenses..................      211            722       7,015
Income (loss) from continuing
  operations before provision
  (benefit) for income taxes....       10           (763)      1,636
Income from discontinued
  operations, net of income
  taxes.........................       --            151         471
Net income (loss)...............        6           (286)      1,605
Total assets (1)................      190         11,085     277,426
Deferred policy acquisition
  costs.........................       --              1      11,727
Goodwill, net...................       18              3         750
Separate account assets.........       --            (17)     59,693
Policyholder liabilities........       --         (2,011)    165,242
Separate account liabilities....       --            (17)     59,693
</Table>

                                       F-73
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

---------------

(1) These  balances  reflect  the  allocation of  capital  using  the Risk-Based
    Capital methodology, which  differs from the  original presentation of  GAAP
    equity included in MetLife, Inc.'s 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
<Table>
<Caption>
AT OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED                                        AUTO &
DECEMBER 31, 2001                  INSTITUTIONAL   INDIVIDUAL    HOME    INTERNATIONAL   REINSURANCE
------------------------           -------------   ----------   ------   -------------   -----------
                                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                <C>             <C>          <C>      <C>             <C>
Premiums.........................     $7,288         $4,563     $2,755       $846          $1,762
Universal life and
  investment-type product policy
  fees...........................        592          1,260         --         38              --
Net investment income............      3,967          6,165        200        267             390
Other revenues...................        649            495         22         16              42
Net investment gains (losses)....        (16)           853        (17)       (16)             (6)
Policyholder benefits and
  claims.........................      8,924          5,233      2,121        689           1,484
Interest credited to policyholder
  account balances...............      1,013          1,898         --         51             122
Policyholder dividends...........        259          1,767         --         36              24
Other expenses...................      1,746          2,747        800        329             491
Income (loss) from continuing
  operations before provision
  (benefit) for income taxes.....        538          1,691         39         46              67
Income from discontinued
  operations, net of income
  taxes..........................         21             36         --         --              --
Net income (loss)................        382          1,095         41         14              40

<Caption>
AT OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED             ASSET      CORPORATE &
DECEMBER 31, 2001                  MANAGEMENT      OTHER       TOTAL
------------------------           ----------   -----------   -------
                                         (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                <C>          <C>           <C>
Premiums.........................     $ --        $    (2)    $17,212
Universal life and
  investment-type product policy
  fees...........................       --             (1)      1,889
Net investment income............       71            127      11,187
Other revenues...................      198             85       1,507
Net investment gains (losses)....       25         (1,402)       (579)
Policyholder benefits and
  claims.........................       --              3      18,454
Interest credited to policyholder
  account balances...............       --             --       3,084
Policyholder dividends...........       --             --       2,086
Other expenses...................      252            657       7,022
Income (loss) from continuing
  operations before provision
  (benefit) for income taxes.....       42         (1,853)        570
Income from discontinued
  operations, net of income
  taxes..........................       --             50         107
Net income (loss)................       27         (1,126)        473
</Table>

     The  following table indicates amounts in  the current and prior years that
have been classified as discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS 144:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------
                                                               2003     2002     2001
                                                              ------   ------   ------
                                                               (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>      <C>
Net investment income
  Institutional.............................................   $  2     $ 33     $ 34
  Individual................................................      5       50       56
  Corporate & Other.........................................     45       77       79
                                                               ----     ----     ----
     Total net investment income............................   $ 52     $160     $169
                                                               ====     ====     ====
Net investment gains (losses)
  Institutional.............................................   $ 45     $156     $ --
  Individual................................................     43      262       --
  Corporate & Other.........................................    333      164       --
                                                               ----     ----     ----
     Total net investment gains (losses)....................   $421     $582     $ --
                                                               ====     ====     ====
Interest Expense
  Individual................................................   $  1     $  1     $ --
                                                               ----     ----     ----
     Total interest expense.................................   $  1     $  1     $ --
                                                               ====     ====     ====
</Table>

     Economic Capital.  Beginning in  2003, the Company changed its  methodology
of  allocating capital to its business  segments from Risk-Based Capital ("RBC")
to Economic Capital. Prior to  2003, the Company's business segments'  allocated
equity  was primarily  based on  RBC, an  internally developed  formula based on
applying a  multiple  to the  National  Association of  Insurance  Commissioners
Statutory Risk-Based Capital and included certain adjustments in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United

                                       F-74
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

States  of America  ("GAAP"). Economic Capital  is an  internally developed risk
capital model, the purpose of which is  to measure the risk in the business  and
to  provide a basis upon  which capital is deployed.  The Economic Capital model
accounts for the unique and specific  nature of the risks inherent in  MetLife's
businesses.  This is  in contrast  to the  standardized regulatory  RBC formula,
which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances  of
the Company's businesses.

     The  change in methodology is being  applied prospectively. This change has
and will continue to impact the level of net investment income and net income of
each of the Company's business segments.  A portion of net investment income  is
credited  to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This change in
methodology of allocating equity does not impact the Company's consolidated  net
investment income or net income.

     The  following table  presents actual and  pro forma  net investment income
with respect to the Company's segments for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001. The amounts shown  as pro forma reflect  net investment income that  would
have  been reported in  these years had  the Company allocated  capital based on
Economic Capital rather than on the basis of RBC.

                             NET INVESTMENT INCOME

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                    FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                -----------------------------------------
                                                       2002                  2001
                                                -------------------   -------------------
                                                ACTUAL    PRO FORMA   ACTUAL    PRO FORMA
                                                -------   ---------   -------   ---------
                                                          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                             <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>
Institutional.................................  $ 3,918    $ 3,980    $ 3,967    $ 4,040
Individual....................................    6,244      6,155      6,165      6,078
Auto & Home...................................      177        160        200        184
International.................................      461        424        267        251
Reinsurance...................................      421        382        390        354
Asset Management..............................       59         71         71         89
Corporate & Other.............................      (19)        89        127        191
                                                -------    -------    -------    -------
  Total.......................................  $11,261    $11,261    $11,187    $11,187
                                                =======    =======    =======    =======
</Table>

     The following table presents  actual and pro forma  assets for each of  the
Company's  operating segments  at December  31, 2002.  The amounts  shown as pro
forma reflect assets that  would have been  reported in the  prior year had  the
Company  allocated capital based on Economic Capital rather than on the basis of
RBC.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     ASSETS
                                                              ---------------------
                                                              ACTUAL(1)   PRO FORMA
                                                              ---------   ---------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Institutional...............................................  $ 98,234    $ 98,810
Individual..................................................   145,152     144,073
Auto & Home.................................................     4,540       4,360
International...............................................     8,301       7,990
Reinsurance.................................................     9,924       9,672
Asset Management............................................       190         320
Corporate & Other...........................................    11,085      12,201
                                                              --------    --------
  Total.....................................................  $277,426    $277,426
                                                              ========    ========
</Table>

                                       F-75
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

---------------

(1) These  balances reflect the allocation of capital using the RBC methodology,
    which differs  from the  original presentation  of GAAP  equity included  in
    MetLife, Inc.'s 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     The Reinsurance segment's results of operations for the year ended December
31,  2003  include  RGA's  coinsurance  agreement  under  which  it  assumed the
traditional U.S. life reinsurance business of Allianz Life Insurance Company  of
North  America. The transaction added approximately $246 million of premiums and
$11 million of pre-tax income, excluding minority interest expense.

     The Individual segment's results of operations for the year ended  December
31,  2003 includes  a second quarter  after-tax charge of  $31 million resulting
from  certain  improperly  deferred  expenses  at  an  affiliate,  New   England
Financial.

     The  International segment's results  of operations include  the results of
operations of Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. ("Hidalgo"), a Mexican life insurer  that
was acquired on June 20, 2002. During the second quarter of 2003, as part of its
acquisition  and integration strategy, International  completed the legal merger
of Hidalgo into its original Mexican subsidiary, Seguros Genesis, S.A.,  forming
MetLife  Mexico, S.A. As a result of  the merger of these companies, the Company
recorded $62 million of  after-tax earnings from the  merger and a reduction  in
policyholder liabilities resulting from a change in reserve methodology.

     The Institutional, Individual, Reinsurance and Auto & Home segments for the
year  ended December 31, 2001 include $287  million, $24 million, $9 million and
$5 million, respectively, of  pre-tax losses associated  with the September  11,
2001 tragedies. See Note 9.

     The  Institutional,  Individual  and  Auto  &  Home  segments  include $399
million, $97 million and $3 million, respectively, in pre-tax charges associated
with business realignment initiatives for the year ended December 31, 2001.  See
Note 10.

     The  Individual segment for the year  ended December 31, 2001 includes $118
million of pre-tax expenses associated with the establishment of a  policyholder
liability for certain group annuity policies.

     For  the  year  ended December  31,  2001, pre-tax  gross  investment gains
(losses) of $1,027 million,  $142 million and $(1,172)  million (comprised of  a
$354  million  gain  and  an  intercompany  elimination  of  $(1,526)  million),
resulting from the sale of certain real estate properties from Metropolitan Life
to Metropolitan Insurance and  Annuity Company, a  subsidiary of MetLife,  Inc.,
are  included in the  Individual segment, Institutional  segment and Corporate &
Other, respectively.

     As part of the GenAmerica acquisition in 2000, the Company acquired Conning
Corporation ("Conning"),  the  results  of  which  are  included  in  the  Asset
Management  segment due to the types of  products and strategies employed by the
entity from its acquisition date to July 2001, the date of its disposition.  The
Company  sold Conning, receiving $108 million  in the transaction and reported a
gain of approximately $25 million, in the third quarter of 2001.

     Corporate & Other includes various  start-up and run-off entities, as  well
as  the elimination of all intersegment amounts. The elimination of intersegment
amounts relates to  intersegment loans, which  bear interest rates  commensurate
with related borrowings, as well as intersegment reinsurance transactions.

     Net  investment income and net investment  gains(losses) are based upon the
actual results  of  each  segment's specifically  identifiable  asset  portfolio
adjusted  for allocated capital. Other costs  and operating costs were allocated
to each of the segments  based upon: (i) a review  of the nature of such  costs;
(ii)  time studies analyzing the amount  of employee compensation costs incurred
by each segment;  and (iii)  cost estimates  included in  the Company's  product
pricing.

     Revenues  derived  from any  customer did  not  exceed 10%  of consolidated
revenues for the  years ended December  31, 2003, 2002  and 2001. Revenues  from
U.S. operations were $32,312 million, $30,263 million and

                                       F-76
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$29,525  million  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002  and  2001,
respectively, which represented 90%, 92% and 95%, respectively, of  consolidated
revenues.

19.  ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

     In  September  2003,  a subsidiary  of  the Company,  Reinsurance  Group of
America, Incorporated ("RGA"), announced a coinsurance agreement under which  it
assumed the traditional U.S. life reinsurance business of Allianz Life Insurance
Company  of North America.  The transaction closed during  the fourth quarter of
2003 with an effective date retroactive  to July 1, 2003. The transaction  added
approximately $278 billion of life reinsurance in-force, $246 million of premium
and $11 million of income before income tax expense, excluding minority interest
expense, to the fourth quarter of 2003.

     In June 2002, the Company acquired Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. ("Hidalgo"), an
insurance  company based in Mexico with  approximately $2.5 billion in assets as
of the date of acquisition. The Company's existing Mexico subsidiary and Hidalgo
now operate as a combined entity under the name MetLife Mexico.

     In November  2001,  the  Company  acquired  Compania  de  Seguros  de  Vida
Santander  S.A. and Compania de Reaseguros  de Vida Soince Re S.A., wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Santander  Central Hispano in  Chile. These acquisitions  marked
MetLife's entrance into the Chilean insurance market.

     In  July  2001,  the  Company completed  its  sale  of  Conning Corporation
("Conning"), an affiliate  acquired in the  acquisition of GenAmerica  Financial
Corporation  ("GenAmerica") in 2000. Conning specialized in asset management for
insurance company investment portfolios and investment research.

20.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     The Company actively manages its  real estate portfolio with the  objective
to  maximize  earnings  through  selective  acquisitions  and  dispositions.  In
accordance  with  SFAS  144,  income  related  to  real  estate  classified   as
held-for-sale  on  or  after  January  1,  2002  is  presented  as  discontinued
operations. These assets are carried at the lower of cost or market.

     The following table  presents the  components of  income from  discontinued
operations:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------------
                                                               2003     2002      2001
                                                              ------   -------   -------
                                                                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>       <C>
Investment income...........................................   $120     $ 458     $ 508
Investment expense..........................................    (68)     (298)     (339)
Net investment gains (losses)...............................    421       582        --
                                                               ----     -----     -----
  Total revenues............................................    473       742       169
Interest Expense............................................      1         1        --
Provision for income taxes..................................    172       270        62
                                                               ----     -----     -----
  Income from discontinued operations.......................   $300     $ 471     $ 107
                                                               ====     =====     =====
</Table>

     The  carrying value of  real estate related  to discontinued operations was
$89 million and $799  million at December 31,  2003 and 2002, respectively.  See
Note 18 for discontinued operations by business segment.

     Subsequent to December 31, 2003, MetLife entered into a marketing agreement
to  sell one of its  real estate investments, the  Sears Tower, and reclassified
the property from Real Estate -- Held-for Investments to Real Estate -- Held-for
Sale.  The  carrying  value  of  the  property  as  of  December  31,  2003   is
approximately $700 million.

                                       F-77
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

21.  FAIR VALUE INFORMATION

     The  estimated fair values of financial instruments have been determined by
using available  market information  and the  valuation methodologies  described
below.  Considerable judgment is  often required in  interpreting market data to
develop estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein may
not necessarily be  indicative of amounts  that could be  realized in a  current
market exchange. The use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may
have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

     Amounts related to the Company's financial instruments were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         NOTIONAL   CARRYING   ESTIMATED
DECEMBER 31, 2003                                         AMOUNT     VALUE     FAIR VALUE
-----------------                                        --------   --------   ----------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>
Assets:
  Fixed maturities.....................................             $167,752    $167,752
  Equity securities....................................             $  1,598    $  1,598
  Mortgage loans on real estate........................             $ 26,249    $ 28,259
  Policy loans.........................................             $  8,749    $  8,749
  Short-term investments...............................             $  1,826    $  1,826
  Cash and cash equivalents............................             $  3,733    $  3,733
  Mortgage loan commitments............................   $  679    $     --    $     (4)
  Commitments to fund partnership investments..........   $1,380    $     --    $     --
Liabilities:
  Policyholder account balances........................             $ 63,957    $ 64,861
  Short-term debt......................................             $  3,642    $  3,642
  Long-term debt.......................................             $  5,703    $  6,041
  Shares subject to mandatory redemption...............             $    277    $    336
  Payable under securities loaned transactions.........             $ 27,083    $ 27,083
</Table>

                                       F-78
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         NOTIONAL   CARRYING   ESTIMATED
DECEMBER 31, 2002                                         AMOUNT     VALUE     FAIR VALUE
-----------------                                        --------   --------   ----------
                                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>
Assets:
  Fixed maturities.....................................             $140,288    $140,288
  Equity securities....................................             $  1,613    $  1,613
  Mortgage loans on real estate........................             $ 25,086    $ 27,778
  Policy loans.........................................             $  8,580    $  8,580
  Short-term investments...............................             $  1,921    $  1,921
  Cash and cash equivalents............................             $  2,323    $  2,323
  Mortgage loan commitments............................   $  859    $     --    $     12
  Commitments to fund partnership investments..........   $1,667    $     --    $     --
Liabilities:
  Policyholder account balances........................             $ 55,285    $ 55,909
  Short-term debt......................................             $  1,161    $  1,161
  Long-term debt.......................................             $  4,425    $  4,731
  Payable under securities loaned transactions.........             $ 17,862    $ 17,862
Other:
  Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable securities
     of subsidiary trusts..............................             $  1,265    $  1,337
</Table>

     The  methods and assumptions used to  estimate the fair values of financial
instruments are summarized as follows:

  FIXED MATURITIES AND EQUITY SECURITIES

     The fair value  of fixed maturities  and equity securities  are based  upon
quotations  published  by  applicable  stock exchanges  or  received  from other
reliable sources. For securities  for which the market  values were not  readily
available,  fair values were estimated using  quoted market prices of comparable
investments.

  MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE, MORTGAGE LOAN COMMITMENTS AND COMMITMENTS TO
  FUND PARTNERSHIP INVESTMENTS

     Fair values for mortgage loans on real estate are estimated by  discounting
expected  future cash flows, using current interest rates for similar loans with
similar credit risk. For mortgage loan commitments, the estimated fair value  is
the  net premium or discount of the commitments. Commitments to fund partnership
investments have no stated interest rate and are assumed to have a fair value of
zero.

  POLICY LOANS

     The carrying values for policy loans approximate fair value.

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

     The  carrying  values  for  cash   and  cash  equivalents  and   short-term
investments  approximated fair values due to  the short-term maturities of these
instruments.

                                       F-79
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  POLICYHOLDER ACCOUNT BALANCES

     The fair value of policyholder account balances is estimated by discounting
expected future cash flows based upon interest rates currently being offered for
similar contracts  with  maturities  consistent with  those  remaining  for  the
agreements being valued.

  SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT, PAYABLES UNDER SECURITIES LOANED TRANSACTIONS,
  SHARES SUBJECT TO MANDATORY REDEMPTION AND COMPANY-OBLIGATED MANDATORILY
  REDEEMABLE SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY TRUSTS

     The fair values of short-term and long-term debt, payables under securities
loaned    transactions,   shares    subject   to    mandatory   redemption   and
Company-obligated mandatorily  redeemable securities  of subsidiary  trusts  are
determined  by discounting expected future cash flows using risk rates currently
available for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities.

  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The fair  value of  derivative  instruments, including  financial  futures,
financial  forwards, interest rate,  credit default and  foreign currency swaps,
foreign currency forwards, caps, floors,  options and written covered calls  are
based  upon quotations obtained from dealers or other reliable sources. See Note
3 for derivative fair value disclosures.

                                       F-80
<PAGE>

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     The Holding Company's  management, with  the participation  of the  Holding
Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the
effectiveness  of the design  and operation of  the Holding Company's disclosure
controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of the end of
the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and  Chief  Financial  Officer  have  concluded  that  these  disclosure
controls  and procedures  are effective.  There were  no changes  in the Holding
Company's internal control  over financial  reporting during  the quarter  ended
December  31, 2003  that have materially  affected, or are  reasonably likely to
materially  affect,  the  Holding  Company's  internal  control  over  financial
reporting.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The  information  called  for  by  this  Item  pertaining  to  Directors is
incorporated  herein   by  reference   to   the  sections   entitled   "Proposal
One  --  Election  of  Directors," "Corporate  Governance  --  Information about
MetLife's Board of Directors, " and "Stock Ownership of Directors and  Executive
Officers -- Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in MetLife,
Inc.'s  definitive proxy statement for the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on April 27,  2004, to be  filed by MetLife, Inc.  with the Securities  and
Exchange  Commission pursuant to  Regulation 14A within 120  days after the year
ended December 31, 2003 (the "2004 Proxy Statement").

     The information called for  by this Item  pertaining to Executive  Officers
appears in "Part I -- Item 1. Business -- Executive Officers of the Registrant."

     The   Company  has  adopted  the   MetLife  Financial  Management  Code  of
Professional Conduct (the "Code"), a code of ethics as defined under  Regulation
S-K,  that  applies  to the  Company's  chief executive  offer,  chief financial
officer, chief accounting officer, corporate controller and all professionals in
finance and finance-related departments. This Code is available on the Company's
website at www.metlife.com on the corporate governance portion of the site.  The
Company  intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under Item 10 of Form 8-K
by posting information about amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of  the
Code  that  apply  to the  Company's  chief executive  officer,  chief financial
officer, chief accounting  officer, and  corporate controller  on the  Company's
website at the address above.

     Also  available on  the Company's  website are  the following  other items:
Employee Code  of  Business Conduct  and  Ethics, Directors'  Code  of  Business
Conduct  and Ethics,  Corporate Governance Guidelines,  Audit Committee Charter,
Compensation Committee Charter and  Governance Committee Charter (together  with
the  Code, collectively, the  "Governance Documents"). The  Company will provide
without charge upon written or  oral request, a copy  of any of such  Governance
Documents. Requests should be directed to Investor Relations, MetLife, Inc., One
Madison   Avenue,   New  York,   New   York  10010-3690,   by   electronic  mail
(metir@metlife.com) or by telephone 1-800-753-4904.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to the section entitled "Executive Compensation" in the 2004 Proxy Statement.

                                       113
<PAGE>

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to the sections entitled "Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive  Officers",
"Ownership of MetLife Common Stock" and "Equity Compensation Plans Table" in the
2004 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to  the  section entitled  "Corporate  Governance --  Certain  Relationships and
Related Transactions" in the 2004 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the section  entitled "Proposal Five  -- Ratification of  Appointment of  the
Independent Auditor" in the 2004 Proxy Statement.

                                       114
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

        1.  Financial Statements

            The  financial statements  are listed  in the  Index to Consolidated
            Financial Statements and Schedules on page 112.

        2.  Financial Statement Schedules

            The financial  statement  schedules  are  listed  in  the  Index  to
            Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page 112.

        3.  Exhibits

            The  exhibits are listed  in the Exhibit Index  which begins on page
            E-1.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

        During the three months ended  December 31, 2003, the following  current
reports were filed on Form 8-K:

        1.  Form 8-K filed November 17, 2003 (dated November 17, 2003) regarding
            purchase  by subsidiary of  shares of Reinsurance  Group of America,
            Incorporated and  attaching  press releases  regarding  (i)  certain
            personnel changes, and (ii) intent to resume common stock repurchase
            activity.

        2.  Form 8-K filed November 21, 2003 (dated November 21, 2003) regarding
            offering   of   5.875%   senior   notes   and   attaching   relevant
            documentation.

        3.  Form 8-K filed November 24, 2003 (dated November 24, 2003) regarding
            offering of 5.00% senior notes and attaching relevant documentation.

        4.  Form 8-K filed December 8,  2003 (dated December 4, 2003)  regarding
            decrease  in percentage ownership of  shares of Reinsurance Group of
            America,  Incorporated  and  attaching  press  release  regarding  a
            contract to sell certain real estate.

        5.  Form   8-K  filed  December  15,  2003  (dated  December  12,  2003)
            announcing a new member of the board of directors.

                                       115
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE I

               CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS -- OTHER THAN
                           INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES
                               DECEMBER 31, 2003
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                        AMOUNT AT
                                                          COST OR        ESTIMATED    WHICH SHOWN ON
                                                     AMORTIZED COST(1)   FAIR VALUE   BALANCE SHEET
                                                     -----------------   ----------   --------------
<S>                                                  <C>                 <C>          <C>
TYPE OF INVESTMENT
Fixed Maturities:
  Bonds:
     U.S. treasuries/agencies......................      $ 14,707         $ 15,945       $ 15,945
     State and political subdivisions..............         3,155            3,349          3,349
     Foreign government subsidiaries...............         7,789            8,764          8,764
     Public utilities..............................         7,566            7,885          7,885
     Convertibles and bonds with warrants
       attached....................................           252              265            265
     All other corporate bonds.....................        70,666           76,083         76,083
  Mortgage- and asset-backed securities............        53,095           54,348         54,348
  Other............................................           492              576            576
  Redeemable preferred stock.......................           611              537            537
                                                         --------         --------       --------
          Total fixed maturities...................       158,333          167,752        167,752
Equity Securities:
  Common stocks:
     Public Utilities..............................             9               21             21
     Banks, trust and insurance companies..........            20               22             22
     Industrial, miscellaneous and all other.......           591              909            909
  Non-Redeemable preferred stocks..................           602              646            646
                                                         --------         --------       --------
          Total equity securities..................         1,222            1,598          1,598
Mortgage loans on real estate......................        26,249           28,259         26,249
Policy loans.......................................         8,749            8,749          8,749
Real estate and real estate joint ventures.........         4,800              N/A          4,800
Real estate acquired in satisfaction of debt.......             3              N/A              3
Other limited partnership interests................         2,477              N/A          2,477
Short-term investments.............................         1,826            1,826          1,826
Other invested assets..............................         4,645               --          4,645
                                                         --------         --------       --------
          Total Investments........................      $208,304         $208,184       $218,099
                                                         ========         ========       ========
</Table>

---------------

(1) Cost  for  fixed maturities  and mortgage  loans  on real  estate represents
    original cost reduced by repayments, net valuation allowances and writedowns
    from other-than-temporary declines in value and adjusted for amortization of
    premiums or accretion  of discount; for  equity securities, cost  represents
    original  cost reduced  by writedowns from  other-than-temporary declines in
    value; for real estate, cost represents original cost reduced by  writedowns
    and adjusted for valuation allowances and depreciation; cost for real estate
    joint  ventures and  limited partnership interests  represents original cost
    reduced for other-than-temporary impairments  or original cost adjusted  for
    equity in earnings and distributions.

                                       116
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                                  SCHEDULE II

         CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF METLIFE, INC. (REGISTRANT)
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               AT DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------
                                                               2003      2002
                                                              -------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
Investments
  Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value
     (amortized cost: $1,524 and $1,222, respectively)......  $ 1,539   $ 1,235
  Short-term investments....................................        8        96
                                                              -------   -------
     Total Investments......................................    1,547     1,331
Cash and cash equivalents...................................      317        12
Investment in subsidiaries..................................   23,531    19,674
Loans to affiliates.........................................      510       500
Other assets................................................       67        31
                                                              -------   -------
     Total assets...........................................  $25,972   $21,548
                                                              =======   =======
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Liabilities:
Short-term debt -- unaffiliated.............................  $   106   $   249
Long-term debt -- unaffiliated..............................    3,957     2,240
Long-term debt -- affiliated................................       --     1,037
Payables under securities loaned transactions...............      562       478
Other liabilities...........................................      198       159
                                                              -------   -------
     Total liabilities......................................    4,823     4,163
     Total stockholders' equity.............................   21,149    17,385
                                                              -------   -------
     Total liabilities and stockholders' equity.............  $25,972   $21,548
                                                              =======   =======
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------------
                                                               2003      2002      2001
                                                              -------   -------   ------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
STATEMENT OF INCOME
Interest income.............................................  $   70    $   64    $  91
Investment gains (losses)...................................      (4)        2       --
Interest expense............................................    (193)     (162)    (104)
Other expenses..............................................     (45)      (43)     (40)
                                                              ------    ------    -----
  Loss before income tax benefit............................    (172)     (139)     (53)
Income tax benefit..........................................     (65)      (49)     (18)
Equity in earnings of subsidiaries..........................   2,050     1,224      401
Income from discontinued operations of subsidiaries, net of
  income taxes..............................................     300       471      107
Cumulative effect of change in accounting of subsidiaries,
  net of income taxes.......................................     (26)       --       --
                                                              ------    ------    -----
  Net Income................................................  $2,217    $1,605    $ 473
                                                              ======    ======    =====
</Table>

                                       117
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

                           SCHEDULE II -- (CONTINUED)

         CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF METLIFE, INC. (REGISTRANT)
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------
                                                               2003      2002      2001
                                                              -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Cash flows from operating activities:
Net income..................................................  $ 2,217   $ 1,605   $   473
Earnings of subsidiaries....................................   (2,324)   (1,695)     (508)
Dividends from subsidiaries.................................    1,728       986     3,785
Other, net..................................................       51      (190)      256
                                                              -------   -------   -------
     Net cash provided by operating activities..............    1,672       706     4,006
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Cash flows from investing activities:
Sale of fixed maturity securities...........................    1,333       917        --
Purchase of fixed maturity securities.......................   (1,631)   (2,147)       --
Net change in short-term investments........................       88       (96)      339
Repayment of mandatorially convertible note.................       --        --     1,006
Net change in payable under securities loaned
  transactions..............................................       84       478        --
Purchase of subsidiaries....................................   (2,112)   (2,355)   (1,293)
Capital contribution to subsidiaries........................     (239)     (595)     (870)
Loans to affiliate..........................................      (10)     (500)       --
Other, net..................................................     (168)       --        --
                                                              -------   -------   -------
     Net cash used in investing activities..................   (2,655)   (4,298)     (818)
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Cash flows from financing activities:
Settlement of common stock purchase contracts...............    1,006        --        --
Treasury stock acquired.....................................      (97)     (471)   (1,321)
Dividends paid..............................................     (175)     (147)     (145)
Long-term debt, issued......................................      697       992     1,248
Short-term debt, issued.....................................     (143)      249        --
                                                              -------   -------   -------
     Net cash provided (used) by financing activities.......    1,288       623      (218)
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Change in cash and cash equivalents.........................      305    (2,969)    2,970
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period..............       12     2,981        11
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period....................  $   317   $    12   $ 2,981
                                                              =======   =======   =======
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
Cash paid (refunded) during the period for:
     Interest...............................................  $   155   $   158   $   107
                                                              =======   =======   =======
     Taxes..................................................  $   (90)  $    28   $    (9)
                                                              =======   =======   =======
Non-cash transactions during the year:
  MetLife Capital Trust I transactions......................  $ 1,037   $    --   $    --
                                                              =======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                       118
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                                  SCHEDULE III

                CONSOLIDATED SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
          AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 AND 2001
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                          FUTURE POLICY
                                         BENEFITS, OTHER
                                          POLICYHOLDER
                                            FUNDS AND
                       DEFERRED POLICY    POLICYHOLDER     POLICYHOLDER   POLICYHOLDER
                         ACQUISITION        DIVIDEND         ACCOUNT       DIVIDENDS      UNEARNED     PREMIUM REVENUE
SEGMENT                     COSTS          OBLIGATION        BALANCES       PAYABLE      REVENUE(1)   AND POLICY CHARGES
-------                ---------------   ---------------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ------------------
<S>                    <C>               <C>               <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
2003
Institutional........      $   739          $ 33,776         $27,637         $  186         $  7           $ 9,728
Individual...........        8,817            57,331          42,087            860          876             5,933
Auto & Home..........          180             2,943              --             --           --             2,908
International........        1,046             4,735           2,441              3          110             1,950
Reinsurance..........        2,160             5,494           4,289             --           --             2,668
Asset Management.....           --                --              --             --           --                --
Corporate & Other....            1            (1,658)           (553)            --           --               (18)
                           -------          --------         -------         ------         ----           -------
                           $12,943          $102,621         $75,901         $1,049         $993           $23,169
                           =======          ========         =======         ======         ====           =======
2002
Institutional........      $   608          $ 32,516         $22,819         $  162         $  4           $ 8,869
Individual...........        8,521            56,118          38,832            863          856             5,886
Auto & Home..........          175             2,673              --             --           --             2,828
International........          945             3,919           1,959              5           47             1,655
Reinsurance..........        1,477             3,974           3,413             --           --             2,005
Asset Management.....           --                --              --             --           --                --
Corporate & Other....            1            (1,818)           (193)            --           --               (19)
                           -------          --------         -------         ------         ----           -------
                           $11,727          $ 97,382         $66,830         $1,030         $907           $21,224
                           =======          ========         =======         ======         ====           =======
2001
Institutional........      $   509          $ 30,944         $20,964         $  167         $  2           $ 7,880
Individual...........        8,757            52,468          34,945            874          855             5,823
Auto & Home..........          179             2,610              --             --           --             2,755
International........          525             2,696             718              5           20               884
Reinsurance..........        1,196             3,129           2,298             --           --             1,762
Asset Management.....           --                --              --             --           --                --
Corporate & Other....            1              (811)             (2)            --           --                (3)
                           -------          --------         -------         ------         ----           -------
                           $11,167          $ 91,036         $58,923         $1,046         $877           $19,101
                           =======          ========         =======         ======         ====           =======
</Table>

---------------

(1) Amounts are included in Future Policy Benefits, Other Policyholder Funds and
    Policyholder Dividend Obligation.

                                       119
<PAGE>
                                 METLIFE, INC.

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)

                CONSOLIDATED SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
          AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 AND 2001
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                              AMORTIZATION OF
                                                         AMORTIZATION OF      DEFERRED POLICY
                                                         DEFERRED POLICY     ACQUISITION COSTS                 PREMIUMS
                       INVESTMENT     POLICYHOLDER      ACQUISITION COSTS     CHARGED AGAINST       OTHER      WRITTEN
                        INCOME,       BENEFITS AND         CHARGED TO         NET INVESTMENT      OPERATING   (EXCLUDING
SEGMENT                   NET       INTEREST CREDITED    OTHER EXPENSES       GAINS (LOSSES)      EXPENSES      LIFE)
-------                ----------   -----------------   -----------------   -------------------   ---------   ----------
<S>                    <C>          <C>                 <C>                 <C>                   <C>         <C>
2003
Institutional........   $ 4,038          $10,847             $   68                $ --            $1,914       $   --
Individual...........     6,201            6,976                718                 (31)            3,862           --
Auto & Home..........       158            2,139                436                  --               321        2,952
International........       502            1,597                225                  --               489          157
Reinsurance..........       473            2,320                371                  --               390           --
Asset Management.....        66               --                 --                  --               182           --
Corporate & Other....       198                4                 --                  --               300           --
                        -------          -------             ------                ----            ------       ------
                        $11,636          $23,883             $1,818                $(31)           $7,458       $3,109
                        =======          =======             ======                ====            ======       ======
2002
Institutional........   $ 3,918          $10,271             $   61                $ --            $1,585       $   --
Individual...........     6,244            7,013                744                  10             3,655           --
Auto & Home..........       177            2,019                431                  --               362        2,866
International........       461            1,467                128                  --               414          127
Reinsurance..........       421            1,700                275                  (5)              369           --
Asset Management.....        59               --                 --                  --               211           --
Corporate & Other....       (19)               3                 --                  --               722           --
                        -------          -------             ------                ----            ------       ------
                        $11,261          $22,473             $1,639                $  5            $7,318       $2,993
                        =======          =======             ======                ====            ======       ======
2001
Institutional........   $ 3,967          $ 9,937             $   64                $ --            $1,941       $   --
Individual...........     6,165            7,131                633                  21             3,881           --
Auto & Home..........       200            2,121                432                  --               368        2,779
International........       267              740                 64                  --               301          103
Reinsurance..........       390            1,606                220                   4               295           --
Asset Management.....        71               --                 --                  --               252           --
Corporate & Other....       127                3                 --                  --               657           --
                        -------          -------             ------                ----            ------       ------
                        $11,187          $21,538             $1,413                $ 25            $7,695       $2,882
                        =======          =======             ======                ====            ======       ======
</Table>

                                       120
<PAGE>

                                 METLIFE, INC.

                                  SCHEDULE IV

                            CONSOLIDATED REINSURANCE
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2002 AND 2001
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                         % AMOUNT
                                                                                         ASSUMED
                                     GROSS AMOUNT    CEDED      ASSUMED     NET AMOUNT    TO NET
                                     ------------   --------   ----------   ----------   --------
<S>                                  <C>            <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
2003
Life insurance in force............   $2,520,700    $678,696   $1,354,410   $3,196,414     42.4%
                                      ==========    ========   ==========   ==========
Insurance Premium
Life insurance.....................   $   12,536    $  2,043   $    3,572   $   14,065     25.4%
Accident and health................        3,724         277           90        3,537      2.5%
Property and casualty insurance....        3,136         109           44        3,071      1.4%
                                      ----------    --------   ----------   ----------
     Total insurance premium.......   $   19,396    $  2,429   $    3,706   $   20,673     17.9%
                                      ==========    ========   ==========   ==========
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                         % AMOUNT
                                                                                         ASSUMED
                                       GROSS AMOUNT    CEDED     ASSUMED    NET AMOUNT    TO NET
                                       ------------   --------   --------   ----------   --------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
2002
Life insurance in force..............   $2,440,655    $575,567   $834,977   $2,700,065     30.9%
                                        ==========    ========   ========   ==========
Insurance Premium
Life insurance.......................   $   12,299    $  1,962   $  2,731   $   13,068     20.9%
Accident and health..................        3,200         286        140        3,054      4.6%
Property and casualty insurance......        2,940         107        122        2,955      4.1%
                                        ----------    --------   --------   ----------
     Total insurance premium.........   $   18,439    $  2,355   $  2,993   $   19,077     15.7%
                                        ==========    ========   ========   ==========
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                         % AMOUNT
                                                                                         ASSUMED
                                       GROSS AMOUNT    CEDED     ASSUMED    NET AMOUNT    TO NET
                                       ------------   --------   --------   ----------   --------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
2001
Life insurance in force..............   $2,110,411    $479,440   $669,923   $2,300,894     29.1%
                                        ==========    ========   ========   ==========
Insurance Premium
Life insurance.......................   $   11,057    $  1,641   $  2,195   $   11,611     18.9%
Accident and health..................        2,906         317        155        2,744      5.6%
Property and casualty insurance......        2,369          69        557        2,857     19.5%
                                        ----------    --------   --------   ----------
     Total insurance premium.........   $   16,332    $  2,027   $  2,907   $   17,212     16.9%
                                        ==========    ========   ========   ==========
</Table>

                                       121
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to  the requirements  of Section  13 or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

March 5, 2004

                                          METLIFE, INC.

                                          By:
                                                 /s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Name: Robert H. Benmosche
                                              Title: Chairman of the Board,
                                            President
                                                and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<Table>
<Caption>
              SIGNATURE                                TITLE                       DATE
              ---------                                -----                       ----
<S>                                    <C>                                     <C>



       /s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE           Chairman of the Board, President      March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------       and Chief Executive Officer
         Robert H. Benmosche               (Principal Executive Officer)




       /s/ CURTIS H. BARNETTE                        Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
         Curtis H. Barnette




        /s/ JOHN C. DANFORTH                         Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
          John C. Danforth




       /s/ BURTON A. DOLE, JR.                       Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
         Burton A. Dole, Jr.




         /s/ CHERYL W. GRISE                         Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
           Cheryl W. Grise




        /s/ JAMES R. HOUGHTON                        Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
          James R. Houghton




         /s/ HARRY P. KAMEN                          Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
           Harry P. Kamen




        /s/ HELENE L. KAPLAN                         Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
          Helene L. Kaplan




          /s/ JOHN M. KEANE                          Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
            John M. Keane




       /s/ CATHERINE R. KINNEY                       Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
         Catherine R. Kinney
</Table>

                                       122
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
              SIGNATURE                                TITLE                       DATE
              ---------                                -----                       ----

<S>                                    <C>                                     <C>




       /s/ CHARLES M. LEIGHTON                       Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
         Charles M. Leighton




        /s/ SYLVIA M. MATHEWS                        Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
          Sylvia M. Mathews




        /s/ STEWART G. NAGLER               Vice Chairman of the Board         March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
          Stewart G. Nagler




       /s/ JOHN J. PHELAN, JR.                       Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
         John J. Phelan, Jr.




          /s/ HUGH B. PRICE                          Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
            Hugh B. Price




      /s/ KENTON J. SICCHITANO                       Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
        Kenton J. Sicchitano




     /s/ WILLIAM C. STEERE, JR.                      Director                  March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------
       William C. Steere, Jr.




       /s/ WILLIAM J. WHEELER              Executive Vice-President and        March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------         Chief Financial Officer
         William J. Wheeler                (Principal Financial Officer)




    /s/ JOSEPH J. PROCHASKA, JR.              Senior Vice-President,           March 5, 2004
-------------------------------------         Finance Operations and
      Joseph J. Prochaska, Jr.               Chief Accounting Officer
                                          (Principal Accounting Officer)
</Table>

                                       123
<PAGE>

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT                                                                       PAGE
  NO.                                   DESCRIPTION                           NO.
-------                                 -----------                           ----
<C>       <S>   <C>                                                           <C>
 2.1      --    Plan of Reorganization (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                2.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-1
                (No. 333-91517) (the "S-1 Registration Statement")).........
 2.2      --    Amendment to Plan of Reorganization dated as of March 9,
                2000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the S-1
                Registration Statement).....................................
 3.1      --    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
                MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
                MetLife, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended December 31, 2000 (the "2000 Annual Report"))....
 3.2      --    Amended and Restated By-Laws of MetLife, Inc. (Effective
                January 21, 2004)...........................................
 4.1(a)   --    Indenture dated as of November 9, 2001 between MetLife, Inc.
                and Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (predecessor to J.P. Morgan
                Trust Company, National Association) relating to Senior Debt
                Securities (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                MetLife, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November
                28, 2001 (the "2001 Form 8-K")).............................
 4.1(b)   --    Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities between
                MetLife, Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be
                qualified as Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2) of the
                Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.1(a), except for the name of the trustee).........
 4.2      --    First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 27, 2001
                between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
                (predecessor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
                Association) relating to the 5.25% Senior Notes due December
                1, 2006 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                2001 Form 8-K)..............................................
 4.3      --    Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 27, 2001
                between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
                (predecessor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
                Association) relating to the 6.125% Senior Notes due
                December 1, 2011 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3
                to the 2001 Form 8-K).......................................
 4.4      --    Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
                between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
                (predecessor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
                Association) relating to the 5.375% Senior Notes due
                December 15, 2012 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                to MetLife, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December
                17, 2002 (the "2002 Form 8-K")).............................
 4.5      --    Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
                between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
                (predecessor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
                Association) relating to the 6.50% Senior Notes due December
                15, 2032 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                2002 Form 8-K)..............................................
 4.6      --    Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 21, 2003
                between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
                National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
                Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.875% Senior Notes due
                November 21, 2033 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                to MetLife, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November
                21, 2003 (the "Retail Form 8-K")............................
 4.7      --    Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 24, 2003
                between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
                National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
                Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.00% Senior Notes due
                November 24, 2013 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                to MetLife, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November
                24, 2003 (the "Institutional Form 8-K").....................
 4.8(a)   --    Form of Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan
                Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank
                One Trust Company, N.A.) relating to Subordinated Debt
                Securities (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
                MetLife, Inc.'s, MetLife Capital Trust II's and MetLife
                Capital Trust III's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Nos.
                333-61282, 333-61282-01 and 333-61282-02) (the "2001 S-3
                Registration Statement"))...................................
</Table>

                                       E-1
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT                                                                       PAGE
  NO.                                   DESCRIPTION                           NO.
-------                                 -----------                           ----
<C>       <S>   <C>                                                           <C>
 4.8(b)   --    Form of Indenture for Subordinated Debt Securities between
                MetLife, Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be
                qualified as Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2) of the
                Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.8(a), except for the name of the trustee).........
 4.9      --    Form of 5.25% Senior Note due December 1, 2006 (Included in
                Exhibit 4.2 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                2001 Form 8-K)..............................................
 4.10     --    Form of 6.125% Senior Note due December 1, 2011 (Included in
                Exhibit 4.3 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
                2001 Form 8-K)..............................................
 4.11     --    Form of 5.375% Senior Note due December 15, 2012 (Included
                in Exhibit 4.4 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                the 2002 Form 8-K)..........................................
 4.12     --    Form of 6.50% Senior Note due December 15, 2032 (Included in
                Exhibit 4.5 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                2002 Form 8-K)..............................................
 4.13     --    Form of 5.875% Senior Note due November 21, 2033 (Included
                in Exhibit 4.6 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
                the Retail Form 8-K)........................................
 4.14     --    Form of 5.00% Senior Note due November 24, 2013 (Included in
                Exhibit 4.7 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                Institutional Form 8-K).....................................
 4.15     --    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2001 S-3
                Registration Statement).....................................
 4.16     --    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2001 S-3
                Registration Statement).....................................
 4.17     --    Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife
                Capital Trust II (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5
                to MetLife, Inc.'s, MetLife Capital Trust II's and MetLife
                Capital Trust III's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Nos.
                333-112073, 333-112073-01 and 333-112073-02) (the "2004 S-3
                Registration Statement"))...................................
 4.18     --    Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife
                Capital Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6
                to the 2004 S-3 Registration Statement).....................
 4.19     --    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust II
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2001 S-3
                Registration Statement).....................................
 4.20     --    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2001 S-3
                Registration Statement).....................................
 4.21     --    Removal and Appointment of Trustees of MetLife Capital Trust
                II (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2004 S-3
                Registration Statement).....................................
 4.22     --    Removal and Appointment of Trustees of MetLife Capital Trust
                III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2004
                S-3 Registration Statement).................................
 4.23     --    Form of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife
                Capital Trust II (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10
                to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement).....................
 4.24     --    Form of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife
                Capital Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11
                to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement).....................
 4.25     --    Form of Trust Preferred Security Certificate of MetLife
                Capital Trust II (Included in Exhibit 4.23 incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2001 S-3 Registration
                Statement)..................................................
 4.26     --    Form of Trust Preferred Security Certificate of MetLife
                Capital Trust III (Included in Exhibit 4.24 incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2001 S-3 Registration
                Statement)..................................................
 4.27     --    Form of Trust Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement for
                MetLife Capital Trust II (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.14 to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement)........
 4.28     --    Form of Trust Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement for
                MetLife Capital Trust III (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.15 to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement)........
 4.29     --    Form of Common Securities Guarantee Agreement for MetLife
                Capital Trust II (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.16
                to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement).....................
</Table>

                                       E-2
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT                                                                       PAGE
  NO.                                   DESCRIPTION                           NO.
-------                                 -----------                           ----
<C>       <S>   <C>                                                           <C>
 4.30     --    Form of Common Securities Guarantee Agreement for MetLife
                Capital Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.17
                to the 2001 S-3 Registration Statement).....................
 4.31     --    Form of Certificate for Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
                share (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the S-1
                Registration Statement).....................................
 4.32     --    Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as
                trustee, relating to the debt securities (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the 2000 Annual Report).........
 4.33     --    First Supplemental Indenture between MetLife, Inc. and The
                Bank of New York, as trustee, relating to the Debentures
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the 2000 Annual
                Report).....................................................
 4.34     --    Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust I
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife, Inc.'s
                and MetLife Capital Trust I's Registration Statement on Form
                S-1 (Nos. 333-32074 and 333-32074-01) (the "Trust
                Registration Statement"))...................................
 4.35     --    Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust I
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Trust
                Registration Statement).....................................
 4.36     --    Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital
                Trust I (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the
                2000 Annual Report).........................................
 4.37     --    Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement for MetLife Capital
                Trust I (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the
                2000 Annual Report).........................................
 4.38     --    Capital Security Certificate of MetLife Capital Trust I
                (Included in Exhibit 4.36 incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.6 to the 2000 Annual Report)......................
 4.39     --    Purchase Contract Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.9 to the 2000 Annual Report)......................
 4.40     --    Pledge Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10
                to the 2000 Annual Report)..................................
 4.41     --    Form of Debenture (Included in Exhibit 4.33 incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the 2000 Annual Report).........
 4.42     --    Form of Normal Unit (Included in Exhibit 4.39 incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2000 Annual Report)......
 4.43     --    Form of Stripped Unit (Included in Exhibit 4.39 incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2000 Annual Report)......
 4.44     --    Common Securities Guarantee Agreement (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4.14 to the 2000 Annual Report)........
 4.45     --    Rights Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                to the 2000 Annual Report)..................................
 4.46     --    Form of Certificate of Designation (Included as Exhibit A of
                Exhibit 4.45)...............................................
 4.47     --    Form of Right Certificate (Included as Exhibit B of Exhibit
                4.45).......................................................
 4.48     --    Form of Warrant Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.23 to the 2004 S-3 Registration Statement)**......
 4.49     --    Form of Deposit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.24 to the 2004 S-3 Registration Statement)**......
 4.50     --    Form of Depositary Receipt (Included in Exhibit 4.49)**.....
 4.51     --    Form of Purchase Contract Agreement (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4.26 to the 2004 S-3 Registration
                Statement)**................................................
 4.52     --    Form of Pledge Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 4.27 to the 2004 S-3 Registration Statement)**......
 4.53     --    Form of Unit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                4.28 to the 2004 S-3 Registration Statement)**..............
 4.54     --    Form of Capital Note (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.44 to the S-1 Registration Statement)....................
</Table>

                                       E-3
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT                                                                       PAGE
  NO.                                   DESCRIPTION                           NO.
-------                                 -----------                           ----
<C>       <S>   <C>                                                           <C>
10.1      --    Form of Amended and Restated Employment Continuation
                Agreement with Messrs. Benmosche, Nagler and Clark
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to MetLife,
                Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                December 31, 2001 (the "2001 Annual Report"))*..............
10.2      --    Form of Amended and Restated Employment Continuation
                Agreement with Messrs. Beller, Henrikson and Toppeta
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the 2001
                Annual Report)*.............................................
10.3      --    Amended and Restated Employment Continuation Agreement with
                Ms. Rein (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the
                2001 Annual Report)*........................................
10.4      --    Amended and Restated Employment Continuation Agreement with
                Ms. Weber (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 to the
                2001 Annual Report)*........................................
10.5      --    Amended and Restated Employment Continuation Agreement with
                Mr. Cavanagh (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.48 to
                MetLife, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended December 31, 2002 (the "2002 Annual Report")*....
10.6      --    Form of Employment Continuation Agreement with Messrs.
                Launer and Lipscomb (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the quarter ended September 30, 2003 (the "Third Quarter
                2003 10-Q")*................................................
10.7      --    Form of Employment Continuation Agreement with Mr.
                Wheeler*....................................................
10.8      --    Separation Agreement, Waiver and General Release dated July
                16, 2002 by and between Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                and James M. Benson (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.3 to MetLife, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the quarter ended September 30, 2002 (the "Third Quarter
                2002 10-Q"))*...............................................
10.9      --    Agreement, Waiver and General Release dated August 26, 2003
                between MetLife Group, Inc. and Gerald Clark *..............
10.10     --    MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and
                restated March 28, 2000 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.7 to the S-1 Registration Statement)*............
10.11     --    MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
                effective February 8, 2002 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.13 to the 2001 Annual Report)*...................
10.12     --    Form of Management Stock Option Agreement (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.2 to MetLife, Inc.'s Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 (the
                "Second Quarter 2002 10-Q"))*...............................
10.13     --    Form of Director Stock Option Agreement (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Second Quarter 2002
                10-Q)*......................................................
10.14     --    MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as amended and
                restated March 28, 2000 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.8 to the S-1 Registration Statement)*............
10.15     --    MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as amended
                effective February 8, 2002 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.16 to the 2001 Annual Report)*...................
10.16     --    Policyholder Trust Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.12 to the S-1 Registration Statement)............
10.17     --    Restatement of the Excess Asbestos Indemnity Insurance
                Policy, dated as of December 31, 1998, between Stockwood
                Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and Metropolitan Life Insurance
                Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the
                S-1 Registration Statement).................................
10.18     --    Restatement of the Excess Asbestos Indemnity Insurance
                Policy, dated as of December 31, 1998, between European
                Reinsurance Corporation of America and Metropolitan Life
                Insurance Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.14 to the S-1 Registration Statement)....................
</Table>

                                       E-4
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT                                                                       PAGE
  NO.                                   DESCRIPTION                           NO.
-------                                 -----------                           ----
<C>       <S>   <C>                                                           <C>
10.19     --    Restatement of the Excess Asbestos Indemnity Insurance
                Policy, dated as of December 31, 1998, between Granite State
                Insurance Company and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the S-1
                Registration Statement).....................................
10.20     --    Amended and Restated Aggregate Excess of Loss Reinsurance
                Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2000 between American
                International Life Assurance Company of New York and
                Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the MetLife, Inc. Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000
                (the "First Quarter 2000 10-Q"))............................
10.21     --    Amended and Restated Aggregate Excess of Loss Reinsurance
                Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2000, between Stockwood
                Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and Metropolitan Life Insurance
                Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
                First Quarter 2000 10-Q)....................................
10.22     --    Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of April 27, 1998, and
                as amended as of April 26, 1999, among Metropolitan Life
                Insurance Company, MetLife Funding, Inc. and the other
                parties signatory thereto (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.18 to the S-1 Registration Statement)............
10.23     --    Amendment No. 2, dated as of June 30, 2000, to the Five Year
                Credit Agreement, among Metropolitan Life Insurance Company,
                MetLife Funding, Inc. and the other parties signatory
                thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the
                2000 Annual Report).........................................
10.24     --    Credit Agreement, dated as of April 23, 2002 (the
                "Three-Year Credit Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc.,
                Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, MetLife Funding, Inc.
                and other parties signatory thereto (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Second Quarter 2002
                10-Q).......................................................
10.25     --    First Amendment to the Three-Year Credit Agreement, dated as
                of December 19, 2003, among MetLife, Inc., Metropolitan Life
                Insurance Company, MetLife Funding, Inc. and the other
                parties signatory thereto...................................
10.26     --    Credit Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2003, among MetLife,
                Inc., Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, MetLife Funding,
                Inc. and the other parties signatory thereto (Incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 (the
                "Second Quarter 2003 10-Q").................................
10.27     --    Stipulation of Settlement, as amended, relating to
                Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Sales Practices
                Litigation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to
                the S-1 Registration Statement).............................
10.28     --    Regulatory Settlement Agreement dated as of August 29, 2002,
                by and between Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the
                State of New York Insurance Department, along with the
                insurance regulators of each of the states of the United
                States and of the District of Columbia that adopt, approve
                and agree to the Regulatory Settlement Agreement
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Third
                Quarter 2002 10-Q)..........................................
10.29     --    Stipulation of Settlement dated August 29, 2002, by and
                between Thompson et al., as Plaintiffs in their individual
                and representative capacities, and Metropolitan Life
                Insurance Company, as Defendant (Incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit 10.2 to the Third Quarter 2002 10-Q).............
10.30     --    Long Term Performance Compensation Plan (for performance
                periods starting on or after April 1, 2001, as amended)
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 2002
                Annual Report)*.............................................
10.31     --    Long Term Performance Compensation Plan (for performance
                periods starting on or after January 1, 2000) (Incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the S-1 Registration
                Statement)*.................................................
</Table>

                                       E-5
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT                                                                       PAGE
  NO.                                   DESCRIPTION                           NO.
-------                                 -----------                           ----
<C>       <S>   <C>                                                           <C>
10.32     --    Annual Variable Incentive Plan (for performance periods
                starting on or after January 1, 2003) (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the 2002 Annual Report)*......
10.33     --    Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan,
                restated effective through August 15, 1998 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the S-1 Registration
                Statement)*.................................................
10.34     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and
                Investment Plan, effective September 11, 2001 (Incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the 2001 Annual Report)*...
10.35     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and
                Investment Plan, effective November 8, 2002 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the 2002 Annual Report)*......
10.36     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and
                Investment Plan, effective January 1, 2003 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 2002 Annual Report)*......
10.37     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and
                Investment Plan, effective January 1, 2003 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the 2002 Annual Report)*......
10.38     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and
                Investment Plan, effective January 1, 2003 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Third Quarter 2003
                10-Q)*......................................................
10.39     --    Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan (As
                restated, effective December 15, 2003)*.....................
10.40     --    Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary Savings and
                Investment Plan (as amended and restated as of September 1,
                1998) and Amendment thereto (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.32 to the S-1 Registration Statement)*...........
10.41     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary
                Savings and Investment Plan (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.60 to the 2000 Annual Report)*...................
10.42     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary
                Savings and Investment Plan, effective September 11, 2001
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the 2001
                Annual Report)*.............................................
10.43     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary
                Savings and Investment Plan, effective January 1, 2003
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the 2002
                Annual Report)*.............................................
10.44     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary
                Savings and Investment Plan, effective January 1, 2003
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the 2002
                Annual Report)*.............................................
10.45     --    Amendment to the Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary
                Savings and Investment Plan, effective January 1, 2003
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Third
                Quarter 2003 10-Q)*.........................................
10.46     --    Metropolitan Life Supplemental Auxiliary Savings and
                Investment Plan (as amended and restated as of December 15,
                2003)*......................................................
10.47     --    1993 Fiscal Agency Agreement between Metropolitan Life
                Insurance Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., dated
                as of November 1, 1993 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.45 to the S-1 Registration Statement)....................
10.48     --    1995 Fiscal Agency Agreement between Metropolitan Life
                Insurance Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., dated
                as of November 13, 1995 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.46 to the S-1 Registration Statement)............
10.49     --    Fiscal Agency Agreement between New England Mutual Life
                Insurance Company and The First National Bank of Boston,
                dated as of February 10, 1994 (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.47 to the S-1 Registration Statement)............
</Table>

                                       E-6
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT                                                                       PAGE
  NO.                                   DESCRIPTION                           NO.
-------                                 -----------                           ----
<C>       <S>   <C>                                                           <C>
10.50     --    Fiscal Agency Agreement between General American Life
                Insurance Company and The Bank of New York, dated as of
                January 24, 1994 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.48
                to the S-1 Registration Statement)..........................
10.51     --    MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers, as amended
                and restated, effective November 1, 2003 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Third Quarter 2003
                10-Q)*......................................................
10.52     --    MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers, as amended
                and restated, effective October 22, 2002 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Third Quarter 2002
                10-Q)*......................................................
10.53     --    MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan 2003 for Outside
                Directors, effective January 1, 2003 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the 2002 Annual Report)*......
10.54     --    MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan 2003 for Outside
                Directors, as amended September 2003 (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Third Quarter 2003
                10-Q)*......................................................
10.55     --    MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan 2004 for Outside
                Directors, effective December 9, 2003*......................
10.56     --    General American Life Insurance Company Directors' Deferred
                Savings Plan for Non-Employee Directors 2002 (Incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10.67 to the 2001 Annual Report)*...
10.57     --    MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan, effective January 1, 2003
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.53 to the 2002
                Annual Report)*.............................................
10.58     --    Amendment to the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan, effective
                January 1, 2003 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.54
                to the 2002 Annual Report)*.................................
10.59     --    MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan dated October 31, 2003 (as
                amended and restated, effective January 1, 2003)*...........
12.1      --    Statement re: Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed
                Charges.....................................................
21.1      --    Subsidiaries of the Registrant..............................
23.1      --    Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP............................
31.1      --    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section
                302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.......................
31.2      --    Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section
                302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.......................
32.1      --    Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section
                906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.......................
32.2      --    Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section
                906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.......................
</Table>

---------------

 * Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

** Indicates document to be filed as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form  8-K
   or  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q pursuant  to Item 601 of Regulation S-K and
   incorporated herein by reference.

                                       E-7

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
