<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>l05635ae10vk.txt
<DESCRIPTION>HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.   10-K/FYE 12-31-03
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                             ---------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

            OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003
                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-8923

                             ---------------------

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

<Table>
<S>                                            <C>
                   DELAWARE                                      34-1096634
       (State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)                     Identification Number)

    ONE SEAGATE, SUITE 1500, TOLEDO, OHIO                          43604
   (Address of principal executive office)                       (Zip Code)
</Table>

                                 (419) 247-2800
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

<Table>
<Caption>
             TITLE OF EACH CLASS                 NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
             -------------------                 -----------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>
        Common Stock, $1.00 par value                     New York Stock Exchange
          7.875% Series D Cumulative                      New York Stock Exchange
 Redeemable Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value
</Table>

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE

     Indicate  by check  mark whether the  Registrant (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during the preceding  12 months; and  (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]     No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to  Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of Registrant's knowledge,  in definitive proxy  or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of this
Form 10-K.  [ ]

     Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is an accelerated filer  (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes [X]     No [ ]

     The  aggregate market value  of the shares  of voting common  stock held by
non-affiliates of the  Registrant, computed  by reference to  the closing  sales
price  of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last business day
of  the  Registrant's  most  recently   completed  second  fiscal  quarter   was
$1,241,737,000.

     As  of  March  11,  2004,  there were  51,098,962  shares  of  common stock
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of  the Registrant's  definitive proxy  statement for  the  annual
stockholders' meeting to be held May 6, 2004, are incorporated by reference into
Part III.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                          2003 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        PAGE
                                                                        ----
<S>       <C>                                                           <C>
                                   PART I
Item 1.   Business....................................................    3
Item 2.   Properties..................................................   24
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings...........................................   25
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........   26

                                  PART II
Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related
          Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases of Equity
          Securities..................................................   26
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.....................................   27
Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................   29
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
          Risk........................................................   42
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   43
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
          and Financial Disclosure....................................   65
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures.....................................   65

                                  PART III
Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........   65
Item 11.  Executive Compensation......................................   65
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management and Related Stockholder Matters..................   65
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............   65
Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services......................   65

                                  PART IV
Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
          8-K.........................................................   66
</Table>

                                        2
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Health  Care REIT,  Inc., a  Delaware corporation,  is a self-administered,
equity real  estate investment  trust that  invests in  health care  facilities,
primarily  skilled nursing  and assisted  living facilities.  We also  invest in
specialty care facilities. As of  December 31, 2003, long-term care  facilities,
which   include  skilled  nursing  and  assisted  living  facilities,  comprised
approximately 92% of  our investment  portfolio. Founded  in 1970,  we were  the
first  real  estate  investment  trust  to  invest  exclusively  in  health care
facilities.

     As of  December  31,  2003,  we  had  $2,003,466,000  of  net  real  estate
investments,  inclusive of credit enhancements, in  328 facilities located in 33
states and  managed by  47  different operators.  At  that date,  the  portfolio
included  219  assisted living  facilities, 101  skilled nursing  facilities and
eight specialty care facilities.

     Our primary objectives  are to  protect stockholders'  capital and  enhance
stockholder  value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and
create opportunities  to increase  dividend payments  from annual  increases  in
rental  and interest income  and portfolio growth. To  meet these objectives, we
invest primarily in long-term care  facilities managed by experienced  operators
and diversify our investment portfolio by operator and geographic location.

     We  anticipate  investing  in  additional  health  care  facilities through
operating  lease  arrangements  with,  and  loans  for,  qualified  health  care
operators. Capital for future investments may be provided by borrowing under our
lines of credit, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity or the
incurrence of secured indebtedness.

     References  herein to  "we," "us," "our"  or the "Company"  refer to Health
Care REIT, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.

PORTFOLIO OF PROPERTIES

     The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
                            INVESTMENTS(1)    PERCENTAGE OF   NUMBER OF    NUMBER OF    INVESTMENT PER    NUMBER OF     NUMBER OF
TYPE OF FACILITY            (IN THOUSANDS)      PORTFOLIO     FACILITIES   BEDS/UNITS    BED/UNIT(2)     OPERATORS(3)   STATES(3)
----------------            ---------------   -------------   ----------   ----------   --------------   ------------   ---------
<S>                         <C>               <C>             <C>          <C>          <C>              <C>            <C>
Assisted Living
  Facilities..............    $1,196,450           60%           219         14,193        $ 85,391           31           31
Skilled Nursing
  Facilities..............       648,354           32%           101         14,256          45,479           18           20
Specialty Care
  Facilities..............       158,662            8%             8          1,204         131,779            6            5
                              ----------          ----           ---         ------
Totals....................    $2,003,466          100%           328         29,653
                              ==========          ====           ===         ======
</Table>

---------------

(1) Investments include real  estate investments and  credit enhancements  which
    amounted to $2,000,271,000 and $3,195,000, respectively.

(2) Investment per Bed/Unit was computed by using the total investment amount of
    $2,018,967,000  which includes real  estate investments, credit enhancements
    and  unfunded  construction  commitments  for  which  initial  funding   has
    commenced  which  amounted  to $2,000,271,000,  $3,195,000  and $15,501,000,
    respectively.

(3) We have investments  in properties located  in 33 states  and managed by  47
    different operators.

  ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES

     An   assisted  living  facility  is   a  special  combination  of  housing,
personalized supportive services and health  care services designed to meet  the
needs  --  both  scheduled  and  unscheduled --  of  those  who  need  help with
activities of daily living.  Certain of our  assisted living facilities  include
other  care  levels, including  independent living,  dementia care,  and nursing
services. More intensive medical  needs of the  resident within assisted  living

                                        3
<PAGE>

facilities  may be provided by home health providers. Assisted living facilities
represent less costly and less  institutional-like alternatives for the care  of
the elderly or the frail.

  SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES

     Skilled  nursing facilities provide inpatient  skilled nursing and personal
care services as  well as rehabilitative,  restorative and transitional  medical
services. In some instances, skilled nursing facilities supplement hospital care
by  providing specialized care  for medically complex  patients whose conditions
require intense medical and therapeutic  services, but who are medically  stable
enough  to have  these services provided  in facilities that  are less expensive
than acute care hospitals.

  SPECIALTY CARE FACILITIES

     Our specialty care facilities include acute care hospitals, long-term acute
care hospitals and other specialty care hospitals. Acute care hospitals  provide
a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services including, but not limited to,
surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories. Long-term acute care
hospitals   provide  inpatient  services  for   patients  with  complex  medical
conditions that require  more intensive  care, monitoring  or emergency  support
than  that available  in most skilled  nursing facilities.  Other specialty care
hospitals provide  specialized inpatient  and outpatient  services for  specific
illnesses  or diseases  including, among  others, orthopedic,  neurosurgical and
behavioral care.

INVESTMENTS

     We invest in health care facilities with a primary focus on long-term  care
facilities,  which include  skilled nursing  and assisted  living facilities. We
also invest in specialty care facilities. We diversify our investment  portfolio
by operator and geographic location.

     In  determining whether to invest in a facility, we focus on the following:
(a) the  experience of  the  tenant's or  borrower's  management team;  (b)  the
historical  and projected financial and operational performance of the facility;
(c) the credit  of the tenant  or borrower; (d)  the security for  the lease  or
loan;  and (e) the capital committed to  the facility by the tenant or borrower.
We conduct  market  research and  analysis  for all  potential  investments.  In
addition,  we review the  value of all  facilities, the interest  rates and debt
service coverage requirements  of any  debt to  be assumed  and the  anticipated
sources for repayment of any debt.

     Our  investments  are primarily  real  property leased  to  operators under
operating leases and  mortgage loans.  Construction financing  is provided,  but
only  as part  of a  long-term operating  lease or  mortgage loan.  We typically
invest in or finance up to 90% of the stabilized appraised value of a  property.
Economic  terms normally  include annual  rate increases  and fair  market value
based purchase options in operating leases. Depending upon market conditions, we
believe that appropriate new  investments will be available  in the future  with
spreads  over our cost of capital that  will generate appropriate returns to our
stockholders. Operating leases and mortgage  loans are normally credit  enhanced
by  guaranties  and/or  letters of  credit.  In addition,  operating  leases are
typically  structured  as  master  leases  and  mortgage  loans  are   generally
cross-defaulted  and cross-collateralized  with other  mortgage loans, operating
leases or agreements between us and the operator and its affiliates.

     At December 31, 2003, 80% of our owned real property was subject to  master
leases.  A master lease is a lease of  multiple facilities from us to one tenant
entity under  a  single lease  agreement.  From time  to  time, we  may  acquire
additional facilities that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease.
The  tenant is required to make one  monthly payment that represents rent on all
the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease
tenant can exercise its right to purchase the facilities or to renew the  master
lease  only  with  respect to  all  leased  facilities at  the  same  time. This
"bundling" feature benefits us because the  tenant cannot limit the purchase  or
renewal   to  the  better  performing   facilities  and  terminate  the  leasing
arrangement with respect to the  poorer performing facilities. This spreads  our
risk  among the entire group of facilities within the master lease. The bundling
feature may  provide  a similar  advantage  if the  master  lease tenant  is  in
bankruptcy.  Subject to  certain restrictions,  a debtor  in bankruptcy  has the
right to assume or reject

                                        4
<PAGE>

each of its leases. It is our intent that a tenant who is in bankruptcy would be
required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than making the
decision on a facility by facility basis.

     We monitor our investments through a  variety of methods determined by  the
type  of  health care  facility and  operator.  Our monitoring  process includes
review of monthly financial  statements for each  facility, quarterly review  of
operator  credit, annual facility inspections  and review of covenant compliance
relating  to  licensure,  real  estate  taxes,  letters  of  credit  and   other
collateral.  In  monitoring  our  portfolio,  our  personnel  use  a proprietary
database to collect and analyze facility-specific data. Additionally, we conduct
extensive research to ascertain industry trends and risks.

     Through monitoring and research, we  evaluate the operating environment  in
each  facility's market to determine whether payment risk is likely to increase.
When we  identify unacceptable  levels of  payment risk,  we seek  to  mitigate,
eliminate  or transfer the  risk. We typically categorize  the risk as operator,
facility or  market risk.  For operator  risk, we  typically find  a  substitute
operator  to  run the  facility. For  facility  risk, we  usually work  with the
operator to institute  facility level  management changes to  address the  risk.
Finally,  for market risk, we often encourage  an operator to change its capital
structure, including  refinancing or  raising additional  equity. Through  these
monitoring  and research efforts, we are typically able to intervene at an early
stage and address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the collectibility
of revenue and the value of our investment.

  OPERATING LEASES

     Each facility, which includes the land, buildings, improvements and related
rights, owned by us is leased to  an operator pursuant to a long-term  operating
lease.  As discussed above, most of our  leased properties are subject to master
leases. The leases generally have a fixed term of seven to 15 years and  contain
one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Each lease is a net lease requiring
the  tenant to pay rent and all  additional charges incurred in the operation of
the leased property. The  tenants are required to  repair, rebuild and  maintain
the leased properties.

     The  net value of our  completed leased properties aggregated approximately
$1,726,836,000 at December 31, 2003.  Operating lease income generally  includes
base  rent  payments  plus  fixed annual  rent  increases,  which  are generally
recognized on a straight-line  basis over the minimum  lease period. This  lease
income  is greater than the amount of cash received during the first half of the
lease term. In some instances (representing approximately 21% of real property),
the leases  provide  for additional  payment  of  rent if  the  gross  operating
revenues  from the property  exceed a predetermined  threshold. Revenues are not
recognized until these thresholds have been met. Rents, as recognized using  the
straight-line  method  where  applicable, on  the  original lease  basis  of our
completed leased  properties are  approximately 11.5%  per annum  on average  at
December  31,  2003. Our  rental  yield from  leases  depends upon  a  number of
factors,  including  the  initial  rent  charged,  up-front  fees,  any   rental
adjustments  and, in some cases, facility-level  revenue. The base rents for the
renewal periods are generally fixed rents set at the greater of a minimum agreed
upon rate of return or a spread  above the Treasury yield for the  corresponding
period,  generally with  a floor  of the  prior year's  rate of  return plus the
annual increaser.

     We currently provide for the construction of facilities for the tenants  as
part  of  long-term  operating  leases.  We  capitalize  certain  interest costs
associated with  funds used  to  finance the  construction of  properties  owned
directly  by us.  The amount capitalized  is based upon  the balance outstanding
during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates  our
cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We
also typically charge a transaction fee at the commencement of construction. The
construction  period commences upon  funding and terminates  upon the earlier of
the completion of  the applicable  facility or the  end of  a specified  period,
generally  12 to 18 months. During the  construction period, we advance funds to
the operator in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which  require,
among  other  things, a  site visit  by  a Company  representative prior  to the
advancement of  funds.  During the  construction  period, we  generally  require
additional  credit  enhancement in  the form  of  payment and  performance bonds
and/or  completion  guaranties.  At  December  31,  2003,  we  had   outstanding
construction

                                        5
<PAGE>

financings  of $14,865,000 ($14,701,000  for leased properties  and $164,000 for
construction loans)  and were  committed to  providing additional  financing  of
approximately $15,501,000 to complete construction.

  MORTGAGE LOANS

     Our  investments in mortgage  loans are typically  structured to provide us
with interest  income,  principal  amortization and  transaction  fees  and  are
generally secured by a first or second mortgage lien or leasehold mortgage.

     At  December 31, 2003, the interest  rates averaged approximately 11.1% per
annum on our  outstanding mortgage loan  balances. Our yield  on mortgage  loans
depends  upon a number  of factors, including the  stated interest rate, average
principal amount outstanding during the term  of the loan and any interest  rate
adjustments.

     The mortgage loans made through December 31, 2003, are generally subject to
three  to  20-year terms  with principal  amortization schedules  and/or balloon
payment of the outstanding principal balance at the end of the term.  Generally,
the mortgage loans provide three to eight years of prepayment protection.

  WORKING CAPITAL LOANS

     Working  capital loans are short-term loans made to operators of facilities
and are typically either secured and/or guaranteed. These instruments have terms
ranging from  three months  to ten  years.  At December  31, 2003,  the  average
interest rates (excluding any loans on non-accrual) were approximately 10.7% per
annum on our outstanding working capital loan balances. At December 31, 2003, we
had provided working capital loans to nine operators.

  SUBDEBT INVESTMENTS

     Subdebt  investments  are loans  made to  operators  of facilities  and are
generally secured by the operator's  leasehold rights and corporate  guaranties.
Generally,  these instruments are for four  to seven-year terms. At December 31,
2003, the  average interest  rates were  approximately 12.0%  per annum  on  our
outstanding  subdebt investment balances. At December  31, 2003, we had provided
subdebt financing to five operators.

  EQUITY INVESTMENTS

     We had an investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P., a property  group
that  specializes in the financing, through  sale and leaseback transactions, of
nursing and  care homes  located  in the  United  Kingdom. This  investment  was
accounted  for under the equity method of  accounting because we had the ability
to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the company due to  our
31%  ownership interest.  In October  2003, we  sold our  investment in Atlantic
Healthcare Finance L.P. generating a net gain of $902,000.

     Other equity  investments,  which consist  of  investments in  private  and
public companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise influence, are
accounted  for  under the  cost  method. Under  the  cost method  of accounting,
investments in private companies are carried  at cost and are adjusted only  for
other-than-temporary  declines  in  fair value,  distributions  of  earnings and
additional investments. For  investments in public  companies that have  readily
determinable   fair  market  values,  we  classify  our  equity  investments  as
available-for-sale and,  accordingly, record  these  investments at  their  fair
market  values with  unrealized gains and  losses included  in accumulated other
comprehensive income,  a  separate  component  of  stockholders'  equity.  These
investments represent a minimal ownership interest in these companies.

BORROWING POLICIES

     We  may incur  long-term indebtedness  through public  offerings or private
placements. For short-term purposes, we may, from time to time, obtain lines  of
credit  or  other short-term  borrowings from  banks or  others. When  terms are
deemed favorable,  we may  invest  in properties  subject to  existing  mortgage
indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain financing for unleveraged properties in
which we have invested or

                                        6
<PAGE>

may  refinance  properties  acquired  on  a  leveraged  basis.  Under  documents
pertaining to existing indebtedness, we are subject to various restrictions with
respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.

MAJOR OPERATORS

     The following  table  summarizes  certain information  about  our  operator
concentrations as of December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             NUMBER OF        TOTAL        PERCENT OF
                                                             FACILITIES   INVESTMENT(1)   INVESTMENT(2)
                                                             ----------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                          <C>          <C>             <C>
Concentration by investment:
  Emeritus Corporation.....................................      30        $  232,018          12%
  Southern Assisted Living, Inc............................      46           211,633          11%
  Commonwealth Communities L.L.C...........................      14           200,127          10%
  Home Quality Management, Inc.............................      25           143,113           7%
  Life Care Centers of America, Inc........................      17           120,810           6%
  Remaining Operators (42).................................     196         1,095,765          54%
                                                                ---        ----------         ----
  Totals...................................................     328        $2,003,466         100%
                                                                ===        ==========         ====
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             NUMBER OF       TOTAL      PERCENT OF
                                                             FACILITIES   REVENUES(3)   REVENUE(4)
                                                             ----------   -----------   ----------
<S>                                                          <C>          <C>           <C>
Concentration by revenue:
  Commonwealth Communities L.L.C...........................      14        $ 26,592         13%
  Home Quality Management, Inc.............................      25          14,886          7%
  Life Care Centers of America, Inc........................      17          14,525          7%
  Merrill Gardens L.L.C....................................      12          14,397          7%
  Alterra Healthcare Corporation...........................      45          14,293          7%
  Remaining Operators (42).................................     215         122,221         59%
                                                                ---        --------        ----
  Totals...................................................     328        $206,914        100%
                                                                ===        ========        ====
</Table>

---------------

(1) Investments  include real  estate investments and  credit enhancements which
    amounted to $2,000,271,000 and $3,195,000, respectively.

(2) Investments with our top five  operators comprised 45% of total  investments
    at December 31, 2002.

(3) Revenues  include gross  revenues and revenues  from discontinued operations
    for the year ended December 31, 2003.

(4) Revenues from our top five  operators were 43% and  40% for the years  ended
    December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

COMPETITION

     We   compete  with  other  real   estate  investment  trusts,  real  estate
partnerships,  banks,   insurance  companies,   finance  companies,   government
sponsored  agencies, tax  and tax-exempt bond  funds and other  investors in the
acquisition, leasing and  financing of  health care facilities.  We compete  for
investments  based on a  number of factors  including rates, financings offered,
underwriting criterion and reputation. The  operators of our facilities  compete
on  a  local  and  regional  basis with  operators  of  facilities  that provide
comparable services. Operators  compete for  patients and residents  based on  a
number  of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of
facilities, services offered, family preferences, physicians, staff and price.

                                        7
<PAGE>

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2003, we employed 34 full-time employees.

CERTAIN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS

  HEALTH LAW MATTERS -- GENERALLY

     We  invest  in  assisted  living,   skilled  nursing  and  specialty   care
facilities,  which represent approximately 60%, 32% and 8%, respectively, of our
investments at December 31, 2003.

     Typically,  operators  of  assisted   living  facilities  do  not   receive
significant  funding from governmental programs and are regulated by the states,
not the  federal government.  Operators of  skilled nursing  and specialty  care
facilities  are subject  to federal  and state laws  that regulate  the type and
quality of the medical and/or  nursing care provided, ancillary services  (e.g.,
respiratory,  occupational, physical and  infusion therapies), qualifications of
the administrative personnel  and nursing  staff, the adequacy  of the  physical
plant  and equipment,  distribution of  pharmaceuticals, reimbursement  and rate
setting and operating  policies. In addition,  as described below,  some of  our
facility  operators are subject to extensive  laws and regulations pertaining to
health care fraud and abuse,  including kickbacks, physician self-referrals  and
false claims.

  LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION

     The  primary  regulations that  affect assisted  living facilities  are the
states' licensing laws. In granting and renewing these licenses, the  regulatory
authorities  consider numerous factors  relating to a  facility's physical plant
and operations including, but not limited to, admission and discharge  standards
and  staffing  and training.  A decision  to grant  or renew  a license  is also
affected by a facility's record with  respect to consumer rights and  medication
guidelines and rules.

     Generally,  our skilled nursing and  specialty care facilities are required
to be  licensed  on  an annual  or  bi-annual  basis and  to  be  certified  for
participation  in  the  Medicare  and Medicaid  programs.  These  facilities are
subject to  audits and  surveys by  various regulatory  agencies that  determine
compliance  with  federal, state  and local  laws. The  failure of  our facility
operators to maintain or  renew any required license  or regulatory approval  or
serious  survey deficiencies could prevent them  from continuing operations at a
property. In  addition,  if a  facility  is found  out  of compliance  with  the
conditions of participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other health care programs,
or  if a facility is otherwise excluded from those programs, the facility may be
barred from participation  in government  reimbursement programs.  Any of  these
occurrences may impair the ability of our operators to meet their obligations to
us.  If  we have  to replace  a facility  operator, our  ability to  replace the
operator may  be affected  by federal  and state  rules and  policies  governing
changes  in control. Under  current Medicare and  Medicaid rules and regulations
and provider contracts, a successor  operator that assumes an existing  provider
agreement  will  typically be  subject to  certain  liabilities of  the previous
operator, including overpayments,  terms under any  existing plan of  correction
and  possibly sanctions and penalties. If  a successor operator chooses to apply
for a new Medicare  and/or Medicaid provider  agreement, the successor  operator
may  experience interruptions and delays  in reimbursement during the processing
of its application for a  new provider agreement or  its application may not  be
approved.  This may result in payment delays, an inability to find a replacement
operator, a significant working capital commitment from us to a new operator  or
other difficulties.

  REIMBURSEMENT

     Assisted Living Facilities.  Approximately 57% of our revenues for the year
ended  December 31, 2003,  were attributable to  assisted living facilities. The
majority of  the revenues  received  by the  operators  of our  assisted  living
facilities  are  from  private  pay sources.  The  remaining  revenue  source is
primarily  Medicaid  waiver  programs.  Forty-one  states  currently  have  such
programs,  which allow Medicaid  recipients to use  benefits for alternatives to
skilled nursing such as  assisted living and home  health. The National  Academy
for  State  Health  Policy reports  that  Medicaid waiver  programs  serve about
102,000 residents in assisted living  or residential care settings. At  December
31,   2003,  12   of  our  31   assisted  living   operators  utilized  Medicaid

                                        8
<PAGE>

waivers. For the year ended December 31, 2003, approximately 5% of the  revenues
at our assisted living facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement.

     Rates  paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are largely
determined by local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities
receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a  Medicaid
beneficiary  who  requires a  comparable level  of care.  The level  of Medicaid
reimbursement varies from state to state, but rarely includes reimbursement  for
room and board. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living
facilities  may be adversely affected by payor  mix, acuity level and changes in
Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels. Changes in revenues could in turn
have a material adverse effect on  an operator's ability to meet its  obligation
to us.

     Skilled  Nursing Facilities and Specialty Care Facilities.  Skilled nursing
and specialty  care facilities  typically receive  most of  their revenues  from
Medicare  and  Medicaid, with  the balance  representing private  pay, including
private insurance. Consequently, skilled  nursing and specialty care  facilities
rely   heavily  on  government  reimbursement.   Changes  in  federal  or  state
reimbursement policies,  including  changes in  payment  rates as  a  result  of
federal  or state regulatory action, or  payment delays by fiscal intermediaries
may also adversely affect an operator's ability to cover its expenses, including
our rent or  debt service.  Skilled nursing  and specialty  care facilities  are
subject  to periodic pre-  and post-payment reviews and  other audits by federal
and state authorities. A review or  audit of claims against a facility  operator
could  result in recoupments, denials or delays of payments in the future, which
could have  a material  adverse effect  on the  operator's ability  to meet  its
obligations  to us. Due  to the significant judgments  and estimates inherent in
payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any
reserves maintained  by  our facility  operators  for potential  adjustments  to
reimbursements for payor settlements. Due to budgetary constraints, governmental
payors  may  limit or  reduce  payments to  skilled  nursing and  specialty care
facilities. As a result  of government reimbursement  programs being subject  to
such   budgetary  pressures  and  legislative  and  administrative  actions,  an
operator's ability to meet its obligations to us may be significantly impaired.

     Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing Facilities.  For the year  ended
December  31, 2003,  approximately 28%  of the  revenues at  our skilled nursing
facilities (which comprised 37% of our revenues for the year ended December  31,
2003)  were from Medicare reimbursement. In an effort to reduce federal spending
on health care,  the Balanced  Budget Act  of 1997  ("BBA") contained  extensive
changes  to the Medicare and Medicaid  programs intended to reduce the projected
payments under these  programs. The BBA  fundamentally altered Medicare  payment
methodologies for skilled nursing facilities by mandating the institution of the
skilled  nursing  facility  prospective  payment  system.  This  system  differs
significantly from  the  prior  cost-based  reimbursement  system.  Among  other
things,  it sets  per diem  rates based on  1995 cost  reports as  adjusted by a
variety of factors,  including, but  not limited  to, costs  associated with  44
resource  utilization group categories ("RUGs"). The payments received under the
skilled nursing facility prospective payment system cover services for  Medicare
patients,  including all ancillary services,  such as respiratory, physical, and
occupational therapy  and  certain  covered  medications.  The  skilled  nursing
facility  prospective payment system caused  Medicare per diem reimbursement for
skilled nursing  facility  services  to decrease.  The  reductions  in  Medicare
payments  resulted  in  immediate  financial  difficulties  for  skilled nursing
facilities and caused a number of operators to seek bankruptcy protection.

     Since the  BBA's  passage  in  1997,  the  federal  government  has  passed
legislation to lessen the negative financial impact from the prospective payment
system.  For example, under the Balanced  Budget Refinement Act of 1999 ("BBRA")
and the Benefits Improvement and Patient  Protection Act of 2000 ("BIPA"),  some
of  the  mandatory reductions  in Medicare  payment  increases were  reversed or
delayed, and skilled  nursing facilities received  temporary payment  increases.
BBRA included two key provisions: [i] a 20% increase for 15 of the RUGs and [ii]
a  4% across-the-board increase to  the federal per diem  rate. The 20% increase
was implemented in April 2000 and will remain in effect until the implementation
of refinements  in  the  current  RUG case-mix  classification  system.  The  4%
increase  was implemented in April 2000 and  expired on September 30, 2002. BIPA
also included two key provisions: [i] a 16.66% increase in the nursing component
of the federal per diem rate and [ii] a 6.7% increase in the 14 RUG payments for
rehabilitation therapy services. The 16.66% increase was implemented in April of
2001 and expired on September  30, 2002. The 6.7%  increase is an adjustment  to
the  20%  increase granted  in  BBRA and  spreads  the funds  directed  at three
                                        9
<PAGE>

of those 15  RUGs to  an additional 11  rehabilitation RUGs.  This increase  was
implemented  in April 2001 and will remain in effect until the implementation of
refinements in the current RUG case-mix classification system. The 4% and 16.66%
increases that expired on September  30, 2002 decreased annual reimbursement  by
roughly  $1.8 billion. Although  the Centers for  Medicare and Medicaid Services
("CMS")  did  not  implement  RUG  refinements  for  fiscal  year  2004,  annual
reimbursement will be reduced by roughly $1.0 billion if the new case-mix system
is  implemented  in the  future. There  is  no assurance  that the  new case-mix
classification will account for  this reduction so  that nursing facilities  are
not adversely affected.

     Skilled  nursing facilities  received a  2.6% inflation  basket increase in
Medicare payments for federal fiscal year  2003, which resulted in roughly  $400
million  in  additional  reimbursement.  In addition,  CMS  did  not  refine the
existing RUG classification  system for fiscal  year 2003 or  fiscal year  2004,
resulting  in roughly $1.0 billion  of additional annual reimbursement remaining
in place. For fiscal year 2004, Congress approved a 3.0% market basket  increase
and  CMS  approved a  3.26% increase  to  the Medicare  market basket  update to
correct for historical errors  in the inflation formula.  The result of the  two
separate  inflationary updates is  an addition of over  $850 million to Medicare
reimbursement in fiscal year 2004. The Medicare Prescription Drug,  Improvement,
and  Modernization Act of 2003 imposed a moratorium on the therapy caps for Part
B outpatient rehabilitation services through December 31, 2005. The therapy caps
were mandated by the BBA.  If ever imposed, the  annual payment cap would  apply
twice.  A $1,590 cap  per patient applies  to occupational therapy  and a second
$1,590 cap applies to physical  and speech therapy combined. Patients  exceeding
the  cap would  need to  use private  funds to  pay for  the cost  of additional
therapy.

     Medicare Reimbursement and Specialty Care  Facilities.  For the year  ended
December  31,  2003, approximately  42% of  the revenues  at our  specialty care
facilities (which comprised 6% of our  revenues for the year ended December  31,
2003) were from Medicare. Our specialty care facilities generally are reimbursed
by  Medicare  under either  the  diagnosis related  group/outpatient prospective
payment system  reimbursement  methodology for  regular  hospitals, or  the  new
prospective  payment system  for inpatient rehabilitation  facilities. Our acute
care hospitals  provide  a  wide  range of  inpatient  and  outpatient  services
including,  but not  limited to,  surgery, rehabilitation,  therapy and clinical
laboratories. Our long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services  for
patients  with  complex medical  conditions  that require  more  intensive care,
monitoring or  emergency support  than that  available in  most skilled  nursing
facilities.  Some  of our  other  specialty care  hospitals  provide specialized
inpatient and outpatient services for specific illnesses or diseases  including,
among others, orthopedic, neurosurgical and behavioral care services.

     With  respect to Medicare's  diagnosis related group/outpatient prospective
payment system methodology  for regular hospitals,  reimbursement for  inpatient
services  is on the  basis of a  fixed, prospective rate  based on the principal
diagnosis of the  patient. Diagnoses are  grouped into more  than 500  diagnosis
related  groups.  In some  cases, a  hospital might  be able  to qualify  for an
outlier payment if the  hospital's charges exceed a  threshold. CMS has  revised
its outlier methodology in response to allegations that some hospitals increased
their  outlier  reimbursement  by substantially  increasing  charges.  Under the
revisions, outlier reimbursement for  all hospitals is  expected to decline.  In
addition,  the government is evaluating the past practices of hospitals relating
to outlier payments. If  any of the operators  of our specialty care  facilities
were  found to  have substantially increased  charges in an  attempt to increase
outlier payments, there is a risk that such operators could be investigated  and
required  to  refund  a  portion  of  outlier  payments  received  plus possible
penalties.

     Congress has limited  increases in diagnosis  related groups or  outpatient
prospective  payment  system  payments.  These  limited  increases  may  not  be
sufficient to cover  specialty care  facilities' increasing  costs of  providing
care.  Failure to increase reimbursement to cover increased costs, or reductions
or freezes in payment  rates, will have  an adverse impact  on operators of  our
specialty care facilities.

     The  BBA, as amended by BBRA and BIPA, also authorized the development of a
prospective payment system  for inpatient  rehabilitation facilities,  including
freestanding  rehabilitation hospitals  and rehabilitation  units of  acute care
hospitals. The  inpatient  rehabilitation facility  prospective  payment  system
methodology replaces the reasonable cost-based payment system.

     Under  the final regulations that  implemented the inpatient rehabilitation
facility prospective payment systems,  rehabilitation hospitals are required  to
complete a patient assessment instrument upon admission and
                                        10
<PAGE>

discharge  for  all Medicare  Part A  fee-for-service  patients who  are already
inpatients or who are admitted or discharged on or after January 1, 2002.  Based
on  the  data  received  from  the  inpatient  rehabilitation  facility  patient
assessment instrument,  each  patient is  placed  into a  case-mix  group.  Each
case-mix  group  is  a  functional-related  group  determined  by distinguishing
classes of inpatient rehabilitation facility patient discharges on the basis  of
impairment,  age, co-morbidities, functional capability of the patient and other
factors the Medicare program deems appropriate to improve the explanatory  power
of  functional independence measure function related  groups. The case mix group
determines the  base  payment rate  for  the Medicare-covered  Part  A  services
furnished  by  the inpatient  rehabilitation  facility during  the beneficiary's
episode of care.  Inpatient rehabilitation facility  prospective payment  system
rates  encompass  the inpatient  capital  costs and  operating  costs, including
routine and  ancillary costs,  of  furnishing covered  rehabilitation  services.
Other  indirect  operating  costs  (including, among  other  things,  bad debts,
approved educational activities  and non-physician  anesthetist's services)  are
not included. Payment rates are calculated using relative weights to account for
variations in resource needs in case mix groups.

     Pursuant  to the BBA, as  amended by BBRA and  BIPA, payments during fiscal
years 2001  and 2002  were budget  neutral with  payments for  fiscal year  2001
equaling  98%  of  the amount  of  payments that  would  have been  paid  if the
inpatient rehabilitation  facility  prospective  payment  system  had  not  been
enacted  and 100% for fiscal year 2002.  For cost reporting periods beginning on
or after  October 1,  2002, payment  is  based solely  on the  adjusted  federal
prospective payment.

     The  ability of our operators  to adjust to the  shift from reasonable cost
reimbursement to an inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment system
will impact  the cash  flow of  these facilities.  Failure to  control costs  or
manage the care provided under the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective
payment  system would have an  adverse impact on our  operators' ability to meet
their obligations to us.

     Medicaid Reimbursement.  Medicaid is a major payor source for residents  in
our  skilled nursing and specialty care  facilities. For the year ended December
31, 2003, approximately 54%  of the revenues of  our skilled nursing  facilities
and  38% of the revenues  of our specialty care  facilities were attributable to
Medicaid payments. The  federal government and  the states share  responsibility
for  financing Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the Federal Medical
Assistance Percentage ("FMAP"),  varies between 50%  and 77% by  state based  on
relative  per capita  income. Medicaid is  typically the second  largest item in
state  budgets  after  elementary  and  secondary  education.  On  average,  the
Congressional  Budget Office  reports that Medicaid  long-term care expenditures
represent about  three-eighths  of  total Medicaid  expenditures.  However,  the
percentage  of Medicaid dollars used for long-term care varies dramatically from
state to state  due to different  ratios of elderly  population and  eligibility
requirements.  States  have a  wide range  of  discretion to  determine specific
reimbursement methodologies.  Currently,  some  state Medicaid  programs  use  a
cost-based  reimbursement system in which the  rate that a facility receives may
be based  on the  costs  it historically  incurred  in providing  patient  care.
Reasonable  costs typically  include allowances  for administrative  and general
costs and costs of property and equipment (e.g., depreciation and fair  rental).
Many  Medicaid programs compute a per diem rate of reimbursement that is applied
prospectively. Certain states provide for efficiency incentives, subject to cost
ceilings. Many of these programs  are subject to retrospective adjustment  under
which  a  facility operator  might be  required to  refund payments  that exceed
incurred costs.

     In most states,  Medicaid does not  fully reimburse the  cost of  providing
skilled  nursing  services. The  shortfall  is due  in  part to  the  BBA, which
repealed the  Boren  Amendment. The  Boren  Amendment required  states  to  fund
Medicaid  expenditures in an amount that  was sufficient to cover the reasonable
costs of an efficient provider. Consequently, Medicaid funding is vulnerable  to
state  balanced budget requirements. Due to  declining tax revenues, some states
are attempting to slow the rate  of growth in Medicaid expenditures by  freezing
rates  or  restricting  eligibility and  benefits.  States will  benefit  from a
temporary increase in the FMAP from July 1, 2003 through September 30, 2004. The
Jobs and Growth  Tax Relief Reconciliation  Act of 2003  included a $10  billion
increase  in the  FMAP for  Medicaid. States  in which  we have  skilled nursing
facility investments increased their per diem  Medicaid rates 4% on average  for
fiscal  year 2004. Despite the temporary federal funding relief and the budgeted
rate increases,  rates for  specific  services and  eligibility may  decline  if
revenues are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.

                                        11
<PAGE>

     The  reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue
to evolve.  Federal  and state  authorities  have  considered and  may  seek  to
implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact
health  care facility operations. The impact of any such change, if implemented,
may result in  a material adverse  effect on our  skilled nursing and  specialty
care facility operations. No assurance can be given that current revenue sources
or  levels  will be  maintained.  Accordingly, there  can  be no  assurance that
payments under a government reimbursement program are currently or will, in  the
future,  be  sufficient  to fully  reimburse  the facility  operators  for their
operating and capital  expenses. As  a result,  the operators'  ability to  meet
their obligations to us could be adversely impacted.

  OTHER RELATED LAWS

     Skilled   nursing  and  specialty  care  facilities  (and  assisted  living
facilities that receive  Medicaid payments)  are subject to  federal, state  and
local  laws and  regulations (including  those laws  and regulations prohibiting
fraud  and  abuse),  which  govern  the  operations  and  financial  and   other
arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers. Certain of these
laws  prohibit  direct or  indirect  payments of  any  kind for  the  purpose of
inducing or  encouraging  the  referral  of patients  for  medical  products  or
services  reimbursable by governmental programs. Other laws require providers to
furnish only medically necessary services and submit to the government valid and
accurate statements  for each  service. Still  other laws  require providers  to
comply  with a variety of safety, health  and other requirements relating to the
condition of the licensed facility and  the quality of care provided.  Sanctions
for violation of these laws and regulations may include, but are not limited to,
criminal  and/or civil penalties and fines and a loss of licensure and immediate
termination of  governmental payments.  In certain  circumstances, violation  of
these  rules (such  as those prohibiting  abusive and  fraudulent behavior) with
respect to one  facility may subject  other facilities under  common control  or
ownership  to sanctions,  including disqualification  from participation  in the
Medicare and  Medicaid programs.  In  the ordinary  course  of its  business,  a
facility operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations and audits
by federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.

     Each  skilled nursing and specialty care  facility (and any assisted living
facility  that  receives   Medicaid  payments)   is  subject   to  the   federal
anti-kickback   statute  which   generally  prohibits   persons  from  offering,
providing, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of
an individual or the furnishing of a  good or service, for which payment may  be
made  under a  federal health  care program  such as  the Medicare  and Medicaid
programs. Skilled nursing and specialty care facilities are also subject to  the
federal  Ethics in  Patient Referral  Act of 1989,  commonly referred  to as the
Stark Law.  The  Stark Law  generally  prohibits  the submission  of  claims  to
Medicare  for payment if the claim results from a physician referral for certain
designated services  and the  physician has  a financial  relationship with  the
health  service provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a
financial relationship under  the Stark Law.  Similar prohibitions on  physician
self-referrals  and  submission  of  claims apply  to  state  Medicaid programs.
Further, skilled  nursing and  specialty care  facilities (and  assisted  living
facilities  that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to substantial financial
penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties  Act and the False Claims Act  and,
in  particular, actions under the False Claims Act's "whistleblower" provisions.
Private enforcement of  health care  fraud has increased  due in  large part  to
amendments  to the False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on
behalf of  the government.  These whistleblower  suits by  private  individuals,
known  as qui tam actions, may be  filed by almost anyone, including present and
former patients and nurses and other employees. Prosecutions, investigations  or
qui  tam actions could have  a material adverse effect  on a facility operator's
liquidity, financial condition and results  of operations which could  adversely
affect  the ability  of the  operator to  meet its  obligations to  us. Finally,
various state false claim and anti-kickback laws also may apply to each facility
operator. Violation of  any of  the foregoing  statutes can  result in  criminal
and/or  civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the ability
of an operator to meet its obligations to us.

     The Health  Insurance Portability  and Accountability  Act of  1996,  which
became effective January 1, 1997, greatly expanded the definition of health care
fraud  and related  offenses and broadened  its scope to  include private health
care plans in addition to government  payors. It also greatly increased  funding
for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of
the  Inspector General of the Department of  Health and Human Services to audit,
investigate and prosecute suspected health care fraud.

                                        12
<PAGE>

Additionally, the administrative simplification  provisions of this law  provide
for  communication of health information through standard electronic transaction
formats and for  the privacy  and security of  health information.  In order  to
comply  with  the regulations,  health care  providers must  undergo significant
operational  and  technical  changes,  and  these  modifications  may  represent
significant  costs for our health care providers. These additional costs may, in
turn, adversely affect the ability of our operators to meet their obligations to
us.

     Finally, government investigation and enforcement  of health care laws  has
increased  dramatically over the past several years and is expected to continue.
Some of these enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and  expansions
in  the application of false claims laws.  For example, there have been a number
of complaints filed and settlements entered into by the United States  Attorneys
Office in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that the failure to meet
certain  conditions of  participation renders claims  for the care  false on the
theory that inadequate care was provided. The costs for an operator of a  health
care  facility associated with  both defending such  enforcement actions and the
undertakings in  settlement  agreements can  be  substantial and  could  have  a
material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to
us.

TAXATION

  FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

     The  following  summary of  the taxation  of the  Company and  the material
federal tax consequences to the holders of our stock is for general  information
only and is not tax advice. The tax treatment of our stockholders will depend on
a  stockholder's particular situation,  and this summary only  applies to you to
the extent that you hold our stock as a capital asset. This discussion does  not
deal  with special tax situations such as those relating to insurance companies,
financial institutions or broker-dealers.

     This summary does  not discuss all  of the aspects  of U.S. federal  income
taxation  that may be relevant to you  in light of your particular investment or
other circumstances. In addition, this summary  does not discuss any U.S.  state
or  local income or  foreign income or  other tax consequences.  This summary is
based on current U.S.  federal income tax law.  Subsequent developments in  U.S.
federal  income tax law, including changes  in law or differing interpretations,
which may be  applied retroactively, could  have a material  effect on the  U.S.
federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our stock
as  set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our stock, you should consult
your own  tax  advisor regarding  the  particular U.S.  federal,  state,  local,
foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our stock.

  General

     We  elected  to  be taxed  as  a  real estate  investment  trust  (or REIT)
commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue to operate in such
a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guaranty that we will  qualify
or  remain qualified as a REIT  for subsequent years. Qualification and taxation
as a REIT  depends upon our  ability to  meet a variety  of qualification  tests
imposed   under  federal  income  tax  law   with  respect  to  income,  assets,
distribution level and diversity  of share ownership  and discussed below  under
"--  Qualification as a REIT." There can  be no assurance, however, that we will
be owned or  organized in a  manner so as  to qualify or  remain qualified as  a
REIT.

     In  any year  in which we  qualify as  a REIT, in  general, we  will not be
subject to federal  income tax on  that portion  of our REIT  taxable income  or
capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to
tax  at  normal corporate  rates upon  any  taxable income  or capital  gain not
distributed. If we  elect to  retain and  pay income  tax on  our net  long-term
capital  gain, stockholders are required to include their proportionate share of
our undistributed long-term  capital gain  in income,  but they  will receive  a
refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.

                                        13
<PAGE>

     Despite  the REIT election, we may be  subject to federal income and excise
tax as follows:

     - to the extent that we  do not distribute all of  our net capital gain  or
       distribute  at  least  90%, but  less  than  100%, of  our  "REIT taxable
       income," as adjusted,  we will  be subject  to tax  on the  undistributed
       amount at regular corporate tax rates;

     - we  may be subject to  the "alternative minimum tax"  on certain items of
       tax preference to the extent that tax exceeds our regular tax;

     - if we have net income from the sale or other disposition of  "foreclosure
       property"  that is held  primarily for sale to  customers in the ordinary
       course of  business  or  other  non-qualifying  income  from  foreclosure
       property, we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on such
       income;

     - any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales
       or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in
       the  ordinary course of business,  other than dispositions of foreclosure
       property and dispositions of property  due to an involuntary  conversion)
       will be subject to a 100% tax;

     - if  we  fail to  satisfy either  the 75%  or 95%  gross income  tests (as
       discussed below), but  nonetheless maintain our  qualification as a  REIT
       because  certain other requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100%
       tax on  an amount  equal to  (1)  the gross  income attributable  to  the
       greater of the amounts by which we failed the 75% or 95% test, multiplied
       by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability;

     - if  we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of (1) 85% of
       our REIT ordinary income for such year, (2) 95% of our REIT capital  gain
       net income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain
       and  pay tax on) and (3)  any undistributed taxable income from preceding
       periods, we will  be subject to  a 4% excise  tax on the  excess of  such
       required distribution over amounts actually distributed; and

     - we  will also be subject to a tax of 100% on the amount of any rents from
       real property, deductions  or excess interest  paid to us  by any of  our
       "taxable REIT subsidiaries" that would be reduced through reapportionment
       under  certain federal  income tax  principles in  order to  more clearly
       reflect income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. See "-- Qualification as a
       REIT -- Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries."

     If we acquire  any assets from  a corporation which  is or has  been a  "C"
corporation  in a carryover basis transaction,  we could be liable for specified
liabilities that are inherited  from the "C" corporation.  A "C" corporation  is
generally  defined as a corporation that is required to pay full corporate level
federal income  tax. If  we recognize  gain on  the disposition  of such  assets
during  the  10-year period  beginning on  the  date on  which such  assets were
acquired by us, then to  the extent of such  assets' "built-in gain" (i.e.,  the
excess  of the fair  market value of such  asset over the  adjusted tax basis in
such asset, in each case determined as of the beginning of the 10-year  period),
we  will be subject  to tax on such  gain at the  highest regular corporate rate
applicable. The  results  described  in  this  paragraph  with  respect  to  the
recognition  of built-in gain assume that the  built-in gain assets, at the time
such built-in gain assets were subject  to a conversion transaction where a  "C"
corporation  elected  REIT status  or a  REIT  acquired such  assets from  a "C"
corporation, were not treated as sold to an unrelated party and that no gain was
recognized.

  Qualification as a REIT

     A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:

     (1) which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;

     (2) the beneficial ownership of which  is evidenced by transferable  shares
         or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;

     (3) which  would be taxable  as a domestic corporation  but for the federal
         income tax law relating to REITs;

                                        14
<PAGE>

     (4) which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company;

     (5) the beneficial ownership  of which is  held by 100  or more persons  in
         each taxable year of the REIT except for its first taxable year;

     (6) not  more than 50% in value of  the outstanding stock of which is owned
         during the last half of each taxable year, excluding its first  taxable
         year,  directly  or indirectly,  by or  for  five or  fewer individuals
         (which includes certain  entities) (the "Five  or Fewer  Requirement");
         and

     (7) which meets certain income and asset tests described below.

     Conditions  (1) to  (4), inclusive, must  be met during  the entire taxable
year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of
12 months or  during a  proportionate part  of a taxable  year of  less than  12
months.  For purposes of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other
tax-exempt entities  are treated  as individuals,  subject to  a  "look-through"
exception in the case of condition (6).

     Based  on publicly available information, we  believe we have satisfied the
share ownership  requirements set  forth  in (5)  and  (6) above.  In  addition,
Article  VI  of  our  Amended and  Restated  By-Laws  provides  for restrictions
regarding ownership and transfer of  shares. These restrictions are intended  to
assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in
(5)  and (6) above. These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in
all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in  (5)
and (6) above.

     We  have complied with, and will  continue to comply with, regulatory rules
to send annual  letters to  certain of our  stockholders requesting  information
regarding  the  actual ownership  of our  stock. If  despite sending  the annual
letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would not have
known, whether we  failed to  meet the  Five or  Fewer Requirement,  we will  be
treated  as having met the Five or Fewer  Requirement. If we fail to comply with
these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure
to comply was due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would
be increased. However, if our failure to comply were due to reasonable cause and
not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.

     We may own  a number  of properties  through wholly  owned subsidiaries.  A
corporation  will qualify as a "qualified REIT  subsidiary" if 100% of its stock
is owned by a  REIT and the  REIT does not  elect to treat  the subsidiary as  a
taxable  REIT subsidiary. A "qualified REIT subsidiary" will not be treated as a
separate  corporation,  and  all  assets,  liabilities  and  items  of   income,
deductions  and  credits of  a "qualified  REIT subsidiary"  will be  treated as
assets, liabilities and items  (as the case  may be) of  the REIT. A  "qualified
REIT  subsidiary" is not subject to federal income tax, and our ownership of the
voting stock of a  qualified REIT subsidiary will  not violate the  restrictions
against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than 10%
of  the value or total voting power of such  issuer or more than 5% of the value
of our total assets, as described below under "-- Asset Tests."

     If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability company or a trust taxed
as a  partnership or  as  a disregarded  entity,  we will  be  deemed to  own  a
proportionate share of the partnership's, limited liability company's or trust's
assets.  Likewise, we will be  treated as receiving our  share of the income and
loss of  the partnership,  limited liability  company or  trust, and  the  gross
income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the
partnership,  limited  liability company  or  trust. These  "look-through" rules
apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.

     Income Tests.   There are  two separate  percentage tests  relating to  our
sources of gross income that we must satisfy for each taxable year.

     - at  least 75%  of our gross  income (excluding gross  income from certain
       sales of property held primarily for sale) must be directly or indirectly
       derived each taxable year from  "rents from real property," other  income
       from  investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property
       or certain income from qualified temporary investments; and

                                        15
<PAGE>

     - at least 95%  of our gross  income (excluding gross  income from  certain
       sales of property held primarily for sale) must be directly or indirectly
       derived  each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for the 75%
       test  and  from   dividends  (including  dividends   from  taxable   REIT
       subsidiaries),  interest,  gain from  the  sale or  disposition  of stock
       securities and payments to us under an interest rate swap, cap agreement,
       option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or any similar financial
       instrument entered into  by us to  hedge indebtedness incurred  or to  be
       incurred.

     Rents  received  by  us will  qualify  as  "rents from  real  property" for
purposes of  satisfying  the gross  income  tests for  a  REIT only  if  several
conditions are met:

     - the amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or
       profits  of any  person, although  rents generally  will not  be excluded
       merely because they  are based on  a fixed percentage  or percentages  of
       receipts or sales;

     - rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real property
       if  the REIT, or  an owner of 10%  or more of the  REIT, also directly or
       constructively owns 10% or more of such tenant, unless the tenant is  our
       taxable  REIT  subsidiary and  certain  other requirements  are  met with
       respect to the real property being rented;

     - if rent attributable  to personal  property leased in  connection with  a
       lease  of real property  is greater than  15% of the  total rent received
       under the lease, then the portion  of rent attributable to such  personal
       property will not qualify as "rents from real property;" and

     - for  rents to qualify as rents from  real property, we generally must not
       furnish or render services to tenants, other than through a taxable  REIT
       subsidiary  or an "independent contractor" from whom we derive no income,
       except that  we  may  directly  provide services  that  are  "usually  or
       customarily  rendered" in  the geographic area  in which  the property is
       located in  connection with  the rental  of real  property for  occupancy
       only,  or are not otherwise considered  "rendered to the occupant for his
       convenience."

     For taxable years beginning after August 5, 1997, a REIT has been permitted
to render a  de minimis amount  of impermissible services  to tenants and  still
treat amounts received with respect to that property as rent from real property.
The  amount received  or accrued  by the  REIT during  the taxable  year for the
impermissible services  with respect  to a  property may  not exceed  1% of  all
amounts  received  or  accrued  by  the REIT  directly  or  indirectly  from the
property. The amount received for any  service or management operation for  this
purpose  shall be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT
in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation.
Furthermore, impermissible services  may be  furnished to tenants  by a  taxable
REIT  subsidiary subject  to certain  conditions, and  we may  still treat rents
received with respect to the property as rent from real property.

     The  term  "interest"  generally  does  not  include  any  amount  if   the
determination  of  such amount  depends in  whole or  in part  on the  income or
profits of any person,  although an amount generally  will not be excluded  from
the  term "interest" solely  by reason of  being based on  a fixed percentage of
receipts or sales.

     If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests  for
any  taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we are
eligible for relief. These relief provisions will be generally available if:

     - our failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to
       willful neglect;

     - we attach a schedule of the sources of our income to our return; and

     - any incorrect  information on  the schedule  was not  due to  fraud  with
       intent to evade tax.

     It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be
entitled  to the benefit of these  relief provisions. If these relief provisions
apply, a  100% tax  is  imposed on  an  amount equal  to  (a) the  gross  income
attributable  to the  greater of the  amount by which  we failed the  75% or 95%
test, multiplied by (b) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.

                                        16
<PAGE>

     Asset Tests.  At  the close of  each quarter of our  taxable year, we  must
also  satisfy several  tests relating to  the nature and  diversification of our
assets determined in accordance  with generally accepted accounting  principles.
At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate
assets,  cash, cash items (including receivables  arising in the ordinary course
of our operation),  government securities and  qualified temporary  investments.
Although  the  remaining 25%  of our  assets generally  may be  invested without
restriction, we are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10%
of either the vote or  value of the outstanding  securities of any issuer  other
than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary (the
"10% vote and value test"). Further, no more than 20% of the total assets may be
represented  by securities of one or more  taxable REIT subsidiaries and no more
than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any
non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT  or
a  taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10%  vote and value test and the 20% and
5% asset tests must be  satisfied at the end of  any quarter. There are  special
rules  which provide relief if the value  related tests are not satisfied due to
changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.

     Investments in  Taxable REIT  Subsidiaries.   For taxable  years  beginning
after  December 31, 2000,  REITs may own more  than 10% of  the voting power and
value of securities in taxable REIT  subsidiaries. We and any taxable  corporate
entity  in which we own  an interest are allowed to  jointly elect to treat such
entity as a "taxable REIT subsidiary."

     Several of our  subsidiaries have  elected to  be treated  as taxable  REIT
subsidiaries.  Taxable  REIT subsidiaries  are subject  to full  corporate level
federal taxation on their earnings but are permitted to engage in certain  types
of  activities which cannot be performed  directly by REITs without jeopardizing
their REIT status. Our  taxable REIT subsidiaries will  attempt to minimize  the
amount  of such taxes,  but there can be  no assurance whether  or the extent to
which measures taken  to minimize taxes  will be successful.  To the extent  our
taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay federal, state or local taxes, the
cash  available  for  distribution of  dividends  to  us from  our  taxable REIT
subsidiaries will be reduced.

     The amount of interest on related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary
may deduct is limited. Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a
taxable REIT subsidiary to its affiliated  REIT to the extent the interest  rate
is not commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct
interest payments to unrelated parties without any such restrictions.

     The  Internal Revenue Service  may reallocate costs between  a REIT and its
taxable REIT subsidiary where  there is a lack  of arm's length dealing  between
the  parties.  Any  deductible  expenses  allocated  away  from  a  taxable REIT
subsidiary would increase its tax liability. Further, any amount by which a REIT
understates its deductions and overstates  those of its taxable REIT  subsidiary
will, subject to certain exceptions, be subject to a 100% tax.

     Additional  taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made in the future for
additional entities in which we own an interest.

     Annual Distribution  Requirements.   In order  to avoid  being taxed  as  a
regular  corporation, we are required to  make distributions (other than capital
gain distributions) to  our stockholders  which qualify for  the dividends  paid
deduction  in an amount at  least equal to (A)  the sum of (i)  90% of our "REIT
taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our
net capital  gain) and  (ii)  90% of  the after-tax  net  income, if  any,  from
foreclosure  property, minus (B) a portion  of certain items of non-cash income.
Such distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or  in
the  following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for
such year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment  after
such  declaration. The amount  distributed must not  be preferential. This means
that every stockholder of  the class of  stock to which  a distribution is  made
must  be treated the same as every other stockholder of that class, and no class
of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as
a class. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain  or
distribute  at least 90%, but  less than 100%, of  our "REIT taxable income," as
adjusted, we  will be  subject to  tax on  the undistributed  amount at  regular
corporate tax rates. Finally, as discussed above, we may be subject to an excise
tax if we fail

                                        17
<PAGE>

to  meet  certain  other distribution  requirements.  We intend  to  make timely
distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements.

     It is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash  or
other  liquid assets to meet the  90% distribution requirement, or to distribute
such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due
to, among other things, (a) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of
income and actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of  such
income  and deduction of such expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (b)
the payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event
that such timing  differences occur,  we may find  it necessary  to arrange  for
borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends
in order to meet the distribution requirement.

     Under certain circumstances, in the event of a deficiency determined by the
Internal  Revenue Service, we may be able to rectify a resulting failure to meet
the distribution  requirement for  a year  by paying  "deficiency dividends"  to
stockholders  in  a later  year,  which may  be  included in  our  deduction for
distributions paid for the  earlier year. Thus,  we may be  able to avoid  being
taxed  on amounts distributed  as deficiency distributions;  however, we will be
required to pay applicable penalties and  interest based upon the amount of  any
deduction taken for deficiency distributions.

  Failure to Qualify as a Real Estate Investment Trust

     If  we fail to qualify for taxation as  a REIT in any taxable year, we will
be subject to federal income  tax, including any applicable alternative  minimum
tax,  on  our  taxable  income  at  regular  corporate  rates.  Distributions to
stockholders in any  year in  which we fail  to qualify  as a REIT  will not  be
deductible  nor will  any particular amount  of distributions be  required to be
made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be taxable as  ordinary
income  to the extent of current  and accumulated earnings and profits allocable
to such distributions and, subject to certain limitations, will be eligible  for
the  dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to
relief under specific statutory  provisions, we also  will be disqualified  from
taxation  as a REIT for  the four taxable years  following the year during which
qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances
we would be entitled to such statutory  relief. Failure to qualify for even  one
year  could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in
order to pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.

  Federal Income Taxation of Stockholders

     Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.   The following summary applies  to
you  only if you are a "U.S. stockholder." A "U.S. stockholder" is a stockholder
of shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:

     - a citizen or resident of the United States;

     - a corporation, partnership  or other  entity created or  organized in  or
       under  the laws of  the United States or  of any state  thereof or in the
       District of  Columbia, unless,  in the  case of  a partnership,  Treasury
       Regulations provide otherwise;

     - an  estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income
       taxation regardless of its source; or

     - a trust whose administration is subject  to the primary supervision of  a
       United  States court and which has one  or more United States persons who
       have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.

     So long as we qualify  for taxation as a  REIT, distributions on shares  of
our  stock made out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits allocable
thereto (and not  designated as capital  gain dividends) will  be includable  as
ordinary  income for  federal income tax  purposes. None  of these distributions
will be  eligible  for  the  dividends received  deduction  for  U.S.  corporate
stockholders.  Distributions that are designated  as capital gain dividends will
be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not exceed our actual
net capital

                                        18
<PAGE>

gain for the taxable year), without regard to the period for which you held  our
stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may be required to treat a portion
of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.

     If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net long-term capital gain,
you would include in income, as long-term capital gain, your proportionate share
of  such net  long-term capital  gain. You would  also receive  a refundable tax
credit for your  proportionate share  of the  tax paid  by us  on such  retained
capital  gains and you would have an increase in the basis of your shares of our
stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains less your share of the
tax deemed paid.

     You may  not include  in your  federal income  tax return  any of  our  net
operating  losses or capital  losses. Federal income tax  rules may also require
that certain minimum tax adjustments and  preferences be apportioned to you.  In
addition,  any distribution declared  by us in October,  November or December of
any year on a specified date in any such month shall be treated as both paid  by
us  and  received  by  you  on  December 31  of  such  year,  provided  that the
distribution is actually paid by  us no later than  January 31 of the  following
year.

     We  will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a
dividend any distribution up to the  amount required to be distributed in  order
to  avoid  imposition of  the 4%  excise  tax discussed  under "--  General" and
"-- Qualification as  a REIT --  Annual Distribution Requirements"  above. As  a
result,  you may be required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions
that would  otherwise result  in a  tax-free return  of capital.  Moreover,  any
"deficiency  dividend" will be treated as a  dividend (an ordinary dividend or a
capital gain  dividend, as  the case  may be),  regardless of  our earnings  and
profits.  Any other distributions  in excess of  current or accumulated earnings
and profits will not be taxable to  you to the extent such distributions do  not
exceed  the adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock. You will be required
to reduce the  tax basis  of your  shares of  our stock  by the  amount of  such
distributions  until  such basis  has  been reduced  to  zero, after  which such
distributions will be taxable as  capital gain, if the  shares of our stock  are
held  as a capital asset. The tax basis  as so reduced will be used in computing
the capital gain or loss, if any, realized upon sale of the shares of our stock.
Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were held for  six
months  or  less  (after  application  of  certain  holding  period  rules) will
generally be treated as  a long-term capital loss  to the extent you  previously
received capital gain distributions with respect to such shares of our stock.

     Upon  the sale or exchange of  any shares of our stock  to or with a person
other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our stock (whether actually
or constructively owned) with us, you  will generally recognize capital gain  or
loss  equal  to the  difference  between the  amount  realized on  such  sale or
exchange and your adjusted tax basis in such shares of our stock. Such gain will
be capital gain if you held such shares of our stock as a capital asset.

     Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is
taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate, which is currently 15%. Pursuant
to Internal Revenue Service  guidance, we may classify  portions of our  capital
gain dividends as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as gain
taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.

     Treatment  of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.  Tax-exempt entities, including
qualified employee pension and profit  sharing trusts and individual  retirement
accounts  ("Exempt  Organizations"), generally  are  exempt from  federal income
taxation. However,  they are  subject to  taxation on  their unrelated  business
taxable  income ("UBTI").  The Internal Revenue  Service has  issued a published
revenue ruling that  dividend distributions from  a REIT to  an exempt  employee
pension  trust do not constitute UBTI, provided  that the shares of the REIT are
not otherwise used  in an  unrelated trade or  business of  the exempt  employee
pension  trust.  Based  on this  ruling,  amounts  distributed by  us  to Exempt
Organizations generally  should  not  constitute UBTI.  However,  if  an  Exempt
Organization  finances its acquisition of  the shares of our  stock with debt, a
portion of  its  income from  us  will constitute  UBTI  pursuant to  the  "debt
financed  property"  rules. Likewise,  a  portion of  its  income from  us would
constitute UBTI  if  we held  a  residual interest  in  a real  estate  mortgage
investment conduit.

     In  addition, in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than
10% of our stock  is required to  treat a percentage of  our dividends as  UBTI.
This   rule  applies  to  a   pension  trust  holding  more   than  10%  of  our

                                        19
<PAGE>

stock only if (i) the percentage of our income that is UBTI (determined as if we
were a pension trust) is at least 5%, (ii) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the
modification of the Five or Fewer  Requirement that allows beneficiaries of  the
pension  trust to be treated as holding  shares in proportion to their actuarial
interests in the pension trust, and (iii) either (a) one pension trust owns more
than 25% of the value of our stock or (b) a group of pension trusts individually
holding more than 10% of the value  of our stock collectively own more than  50%
of the value of our stock.

     Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.  Under certain circumstances,
you  may be subject to  backup withholding at applicable  rates on payments made
with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of our stock.
Backup withholding will apply only if you:

     - fail to  furnish  the person  required  to withhold  with  your  taxpayer
       identification number ("TIN");

     - furnish an incorrect TIN;

     - are  notified by  the Internal  Revenue Service  that you  have failed to
       properly report payments of interest and dividends; or

     - under certain circumstances, fail to  certify, under penalty or  perjury,
       that  you have furnished a correct TIN  and have not been notified by the
       Internal Revenue Service that you  are subject to backup withholding  for
       failure to report interest and dividend payments.

     Backup  withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain
exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-exempt organizations. You should
consult with a  tax advisor  regarding qualification for  exemption from  backup
withholding,  and the procedure for obtaining such exemption. Backup withholding
is not an  additional tax.  Rather, the amount  of any  backup withholding  with
respect  to payment to  a stockholder will  be allowed as  a credit against such
stockholder's United States federal  income tax liability  and may entitle  such
stockholder  to a refund, provided that  the required information is provided to
the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, withholding a portion of capital gain
distributions made to stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail  to
certify their non-foreign status.

     Taxation  of Foreign  Stockholders.  The  following summary  applies to you
only if you are a foreign person.  The federal taxation of foreign persons is  a
highly complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.

     Distributions  to you of cash generated  by our real estate operations, but
not by the sale or exchange of our capital assets, generally will be subject  to
U.S.  withholding tax at a rate of  30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces
that tax and you file with us the required form evidencing such lower rate.

     In general, you will be  subject to United States  federal income tax on  a
graduated  rate basis rather than withholding with respect to your investment in
our stock if such investment is  "effectively connected" with your conduct of  a
trade  or business  in the United  States. A corporate  foreign stockholder that
receives income that is, or is  treated as, effectively connected with a  United
States trade or business may also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is
payable in addition to regular United States corporate income tax. The following
discussion  will apply to foreign stockholders whose  investment in us is not so
effectively connected.  We  expect to  withhold  United States  income  tax,  as
described below, on the gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (i)
you  file an  Internal Revenue  Service Form  W-8ECI with  us claiming  that the
distribution is "effectively connected" or (ii) certain other exceptions apply.

     Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale or exchange
of a United States real property interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign
Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("FIRPTA") as if such  distributions
were  gains  "effectively connected"  with a  United  States trade  or business.
Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to  a
U.S.  stockholder on such amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum
tax and  a special  alternative minimum  tax in  the case  of nonresident  alien
individuals.  Distributions subject  to FIRPTA may  also be subject  to a branch
profits tax in the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled
to treaty exemption.

                                        20
<PAGE>

     We will be required to withhold  from distributions subject to FIRPTA,  and
remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated capital gain dividends,
or,  if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions that could be designated
as capital gain dividends. In addition,  if we designate prior distributions  as
capital gain dividends, subsequent distributions, up to the amount of such prior
distributions  not withheld against,  will be treated  as capital gain dividends
for purposes of withholding.

     Unless our  shares  constitute a  "United  States real  property  interest"
within  the meaning of FIRPTA or are  effectively connected with a U.S. trade or
business, a sale of such shares by  you generally will not be subject to  United
States  taxation. Our shares  will not constitute a  United States real property
interest if we qualify as a "domestically controlled REIT." We do, and expect to
continue  to,  qualify  as  a  domestically  controlled  REIT.  A   domestically
controlled  REIT is  a REIT  in which  at all  times during  a specified testing
period less than 50% in  value of its shares is  held directly or indirectly  by
foreign  stockholders. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is
present in the United States  for 183 days or more  during the taxable year  and
certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such capital
gains.  In any event,  a purchaser of our  shares from you  will not be required
under FIRPTA  to withhold  on the  purchase price  if the  purchased shares  are
"regularly  traded"  on  an  established  securities  market  or  if  we  are  a
domestically controlled  REIT. Otherwise,  under FIRPTA,  the purchaser  may  be
required  to withhold  10% of the  purchase price  and remit such  amount to the
Internal Revenue Service.

     Backup withholding tax and information  reporting will generally not  apply
to  distributions paid to you outside the  United States that are treated as (i)
dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed  above
applies;  (ii) capital gains  dividends; or (iii)  distributions attributable to
gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property interests. Payment of
the proceeds of a sale  of stock within the  United States or conducted  through
certain  U.S.  related  financial  intermediaries  is  subject  to  both  backup
withholding and  information reporting  unless  the beneficial  owner  certifies
under  penalties of perjury that he  or she is not a  U.S. person (and the payor
does not have actual knowledge  that the beneficial owner  is a U.S. person)  or
the  stockholder otherwise established an exemption.  You may obtain a refund of
any  amounts  withheld  under  the  backup  withholding  rules  by  filing   the
appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service.

  Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences

     Current  and  prospective stockholders  should  recognize that  the present
federal income  tax  treatment  of  an  investment in  us  may  be  modified  by
legislative,  judicial or  administrative action at  any time and  that any such
action may affect investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing
with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved  in
the  legislative process  and by the  Internal Revenue Service  and the Treasury
Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of
established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in federal tax laws
and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of
an investment in us. Current and prospective investors should also consult their
own tax advisors regarding the effect of state, local and foreign tax laws on an
investment in us.

INTERNET ACCESS TO OUR SEC FILINGS

     Our annual reports on  Form 10-K, quarterly reports  on Form 10-Q,  current
reports  on  Form 8-K  and amendments  to those  reports, as  well as  our proxy
statements and  other  materials that  are  filed  with, or  furnished  to,  the
Securities  and Exchange Commission  are made available, free  of charge, on our
Internet Web site  at www.hcreit.com,  as soon as  reasonably practicable  after
they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                                        21
<PAGE>

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES

     We   have  formed   subsidiaries  in   connection  with   our  real  estate
transactions. As of March 11,  2004, our wholly-owned subsidiaries consisted  of
the following entities:

<Table>
<Caption>
NAME OF SUBSIDIARY                       STATE OF ORGANIZATION AND TYPE OF ENTITY   DATE OF ORGANIZATION
------------------                       ----------------------------------------   --------------------
<S>                                      <C>                                        <C>
HCRI Pennsylvania Properties, Inc.       Pennsylvania corporation                   November 1, 1993
HCRI Overlook Green, Inc.                Pennsylvania corporation                   July 9, 1996
HCRI Texas Properties, Inc.              Delaware corporation                       December 27, 1996
HCRI Texas Properties, Ltd.              Texas limited partnership                  December 30, 1996
HCRI Friendship, LLC                     Virginia limited liability company         February 21, 1997
HCRI St. Charles, LLC                    Virginia limited liability company         February 21, 1997
HCRI Satyr Hill, LLC                     Virginia limited liability company         November 24, 1997
Health Care REIT International, Inc.     Delaware corporation                       February 11, 1998
HCN Atlantic GP, Inc.                    Delaware corporation                       February 20, 1998
HCN Atlantic LP, Inc.                    Delaware corporation                       February 20, 1998
HCRI Nevada Properties, Inc.             Nevada corporation                         March 27, 1998
HCRI Southern Investments I, Inc.        Delaware corporation                       June 11, 1998
HCRI Louisiana Properties, L.P.          Delaware limited partnership               June 11, 1998
HCN BCC Holdings, Inc.                   Delaware corporation                       September 25, 1998
HCRI Tennessee Properties, Inc.          Delaware corporation                       September 25, 1998
HCRI Limited Holdings, Inc.              Delaware corporation                       September 25, 1998
Pennsylvania BCC Properties, Inc.        Pennsylvania corporation                   September 25, 1998
HCRI North Carolina Properties, LLC      Delaware limited liability company         December 10, 1999
HCRI Massachusetts Properties, Inc.      Delaware corporation                       March 17, 2000
HCRI Massachusetts Properties Trust      Massachusetts trust                        March 30, 2000
HCRI Indiana Properties, Inc.            Delaware corporation                       June 15, 2000
HCRI Indiana Properties, LLC             Indiana limited liability company          June 16, 2000
HCRI Holdings Trust                      Massachusetts trust                        September 9, 2000
HCRI Maryland Properties, LLC            Maryland limited liability company         July 19, 2001
HCRI Massachusetts Properties Trust II   Massachusetts trust                        September 26, 2001
HCRI Beachwood, Inc.                     Ohio corporation                           October 11, 2001
HCRI Broadview, Inc.                     Ohio corporation                           October 11, 2001
HCRI Westlake, Inc.                      Ohio corporation                           October 11, 2001
HCRI Westmoreland, Inc.                  Delaware corporation                       October 16, 2001
HCRI Wisconsin Properties, LLC           Wisconsin limited liability company        December 11, 2001
HCRI North Carolina Properties I, Inc.   North Carolina corporation                 January 1, 2002
HCRI North Carolina Properties II, Inc.  North Carolina corporation                 January 1, 2002
HCRI North Carolina Properties III,      North Carolina limited partnership         January 1, 2002
  Limited Partnership
HCRI Kentucky Properties, LLC            Kentucky limited liability company         January 7, 2002
HCRI Laurel, LLC                         Maryland limited liability company         January 17, 2002
HCRI Mississippi Properties, Inc.        Mississippi corporation                    March 28, 2002
HCRI Illinois Properties, LLC            Delaware limited liability company         August 21, 2002
HCRI Missouri Properties, LLC            Delaware limited liability company         August 21, 2002
HCRI Surgical Properties, LLC            Ohio limited liability company             September 30, 2002
HCRI Tucson Properties, Inc.             Delaware corporation                       November 14, 2002
HCRI Stonecreek Properties, LLC          Delaware limited liability company         June 25, 2003
HCRI Cold Spring Properties, LLC         Delaware limited liability company         June 25, 2003
HCRI Eddy Pond Properties Trust          Massachusetts trust                        June 26, 2003
</Table>

                                        22
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
NAME OF SUBSIDIARY                       STATE OF ORGANIZATION AND TYPE OF ENTITY   DATE OF ORGANIZATION
------------------                       ----------------------------------------   --------------------
<S>                                      <C>                                        <C>
HCRI Investments, Inc.                   Delaware corporation                       July 30, 2003
HCRI Forest City Holdings, Inc.          North Carolina corporation                 August 19, 2003
HCRI Asheboro Holdings, Inc.             North Carolina corporation                 August 19, 2003
HCRI Smithfield Holdings, Inc.           North Carolina corporation                 August 19, 2003
HCRI Greenville Holdings, Inc.           North Carolina corporation                 August 19, 2003
HCRI Forest City Properties, LP          North Carolina limited partnership         August 19, 2003
HCRI Asheboro Properties, LP             North Carolina limited partnership         August 19, 2003
HCRI Smithfield Properties, LP           North Carolina limited partnership         August 19, 2003
HCRI Greenville Properties, LP           North Carolina limited partnership         August 19, 2003
HCRI Kirkland Properties, LLC            Delaware limited liability company         August 22, 2003
HCRI Ridgeland Pointe Properties, LLC    Delaware limited liability company         August 22, 2003
HCRI Drum Hill Properties, LLC           Delaware limited liability company         August 22, 2003
HCRI Fairmont Properties, LLC            Delaware limited liability company         August 22, 2003
HCRI Abingdon Holdings, Inc.             North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Gaston Place Holdings, Inc.         North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Gaston Manor Holdings, Inc.         North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Eden Holdings, Inc.                 North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Weddington Park Holdings, Inc.      North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Union Park Holdings, Inc.           North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Concord Place Holdings, Inc.        North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Salisbury Holdings, Inc.            North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Burlington Manor Holdings, Inc.     North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Skeet Club Manor Holdings, Inc.     North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI High Point Manor Holdings, Inc.     North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Hickory Manor Holdings, Inc.        North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Statesville Place Holdings I, Inc.  North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
HCRI Statesville Place Holdings II,      North Carolina corporation                 September 10, 2003
  Inc.
HCRI Abingdon Properties, LP             North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Gaston Place Properties, LP         North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Gaston Manor Properties, LP         North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Eden Properties, LP                 North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Weddington Park Properties, LP      North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Union Park Properties, LP           North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Concord Place Properties, LP        North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Salisbury Properties, LP            North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Burlington Manor Properties, LP     North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Skeet Club Manor Properties, LP     North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI High Point Manor Properties, LP     North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Hickory Manor Properties, LP        North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Statesville Place Properties I, LP  North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
HCRI Statesville Place Properties II,    North Carolina limited partnership         September 10, 2003
  LP
HCRI Chicago Properties, Inc.            Delaware corporation                       November 18, 2003
</Table>

                                        23
<PAGE>

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     Our headquarters are currently located at One SeaGate, Suite 1500,  Toledo,
Ohio  43604. The  following table sets  forth certain  information regarding the
facilities that comprise our investments as of December 31, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                           ---------------------------
                                                 NUMBER OF    NUMBER OF        TOTAL        ANNUALIZED
FACILITY LOCATION                                FACILITIES   BEDS/UNITS   INVESTMENT(1)    INCOME(2)
-----------------                                ----------   ----------   --------------   ----------
<S>                                              <C>          <C>          <C>              <C>
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES:
  Arizona......................................       6            623       $   47,949      $  3,878
  California...................................       8            550           64,687         8,175
  Colorado.....................................       1             46            4,477           587
  Connecticut..................................       5            474           49,696         5,716
  Florida......................................      20          1,570          102,387        12,440
  Georgia......................................       6            402           41,311         4,617
  Idaho........................................       4            488           33,131         3,983
  Illinois.....................................       2            248           11,666         1,026
  Indiana......................................      14            799           60,739         7,285
  Kentucky.....................................       1             80            9,194         1,099
  Louisiana....................................       1            124           12,906         1,865
  Maryland.....................................       7            593           67,720         8,097
  Massachusetts................................       5            388           57,585         7,160
  Mississippi..................................       2            158           15,133         1,823
  Montana......................................       2            104            9,700         1,068
  Nevada.......................................       3            274           28,428         3,668
  New Jersey...................................       3            176           18,644         2,278
  New Mexico...................................       1             77            4,404           416
  New York.....................................       4            232           28,134         3,522
  North Carolina...............................      44          2,113          205,511        20,093
  Ohio.........................................       8            563           37,073         4,793
  Oklahoma.....................................      16            549           21,230         3,234
  Oregon.......................................       4            168           17,589         2,376
  Pennsylvania.................................       4            235           18,484         2,248
  South Carolina...............................      10            661           49,122         5,255
  Tennessee....................................       6            306           18,434         2,431
  Texas........................................      19          1,396           83,956        10,261
  Utah.........................................       1             57            7,502           964
  Virginia.....................................       5            289           31,513         3,600
  Washington...................................       6            422           33,929         4,092
  Wisconsin....................................       1             28            4,216           556
                                                    ---         ------       ----------      --------
     Total Assisted Living Facilities..........     219         14,193        1,196,450       138,606
</Table>

                                        24
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                           ---------------------------
                                                 NUMBER OF    NUMBER OF        TOTAL        ANNUALIZED
FACILITY LOCATION                                FACILITIES   BEDS/UNITS   INVESTMENT(1)    INCOME(2)
-----------------                                ----------   ----------   --------------   ----------
<S>                                              <C>          <C>          <C>              <C>
vSKILLED NURSING FACILITIES:
  Alabama......................................       7          1,091       $   41,684      $  4,789
  Arizona......................................       1            163            3,426           474
  California...................................       1            122            4,356           654
  Colorado.....................................       1            180            5,318           731
  Florida......................................      11          1,240           71,215         9,063
  Georgia......................................       2            375           11,909         1,368
  Idaho........................................       3            393           19,186         2,582
  Illinois.....................................       4            406           23,141         2,611
  Kentucky.....................................       4            591           23,924         2,914
  Maryland.....................................       1            110            4,279           524
  Massachusetts................................      15          2,121          139,338        18,714
  Mississippi..................................       8          1,127           31,760         3,669
  Missouri.....................................       3            407           24,810         2,796
  Ohio.........................................       5            911           61,878         6,929
  Oklahoma.....................................       2            575           17,366         2,222
  Oregon.......................................       1            111            4,680           639
  Pennsylvania.................................       5            556           23,473         3,384
  Tennessee....................................      15          2,122           93,284        11,573
  Texas........................................      10          1,339           34,385         4,046
  Virginia.....................................       2            316            8,942         1,194
                                                    ---         ------       ----------      --------
     Total Skilled Nursing Facilities..........     101         14,256          648,354        80,876
SPECIALTY CARE FACILITIES:
  California...................................       1            242           18,797         2,412
  Florida......................................       1            100            5,334           457
  Illinois.....................................       1             72           31,683         4,343
  Massachusetts................................       4            735           72,506         8,555
  Ohio.........................................       1             55           30,342         3,902
                                                    ---         ------       ----------      --------
     Total Specialty Care Facilities...........       8          1,204          158,662        19,669
                                                    ---         ------       ----------      --------
TOTAL ALL FACILITIES...........................     328         29,653       $2,003,466      $239,151
                                                    ===         ======       ==========      ========
</Table>

---------------

(1) Investments  include real  estate investments and  credit enhancements which
    amounted to $2,000,271,000 and $3,195,000, respectively.

(2) Reflects contract rate of annual straight-line rent or interest recognized.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     On November 20, 2002,  Doctors Community Health  Care Corporation and  five
subsidiaries  ("Doctors")  filed for  Chapter  11 bankruptcy  protection  in the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia. Doctors stated that
its bankruptcy filing was  due to the bankruptcy  of National Century  Financial
Enterprises  and  affiliates, which  halted payments  to health  care providers,
including Doctors. We have provided mortgage financing to Doctors in the form of
a loan secured by the Pacifica Hospital of the Valley in Sun Valley, CA, and the
other assets  of the  Pacifica of  the  Valley Corporation,  one of  the  debtor
subsidiaries.  The outstanding principal  balance of the  loan was approximately
$18,797,000 on December 31, 2003.

                                        25
<PAGE>

Pursuant  to procedures approved by the  bankruptcy court, the assets of Doctors
were the subject of an auction held on December 10 through December 16, 2003. At
the conclusion  of  that auction,  the  debtors' independent  director  declared
certain   members  of  Doctors'   management  the  winning   bidder.  Their  bid
contemplates a reorganization of  Doctors and its  subsidiaries with new  equity
and  debt capitalization. The results of  this auction are subject to bankruptcy
court approval, which the debtors have stated they intend to seek in  connection
with   a  hearing  on  the  confirmation   of  the  debtors'  proposed  plan  of
reorganization. Doctors anticipates that this  hearing should occur in March  or
April 2004. Doctors did not make an interest payment for the twelve months ended
December  31, 2003. We will not recognize any interest on the loan until payment
is received.

     Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra") filed for Chapter 11  bankruptcy
protection  on January 23,  2003 in the  United States Bankruptcy  Court for the
District of Delaware. We have a master lease with Alterra for 45 assisted living
facilities with a depreciated book value of $103,293,000 at December 31, 2003. A
joint venture between Fortress Investment Group LLC and Emeritus Corporation was
the winning bidder at a bankruptcy auction held on July 17, 2003. The bankruptcy
court confirmed  Alterra's  plan of  reorganization  on November  26,  2003.  In
connection with confirmation of Alterra's plan, our master lease was assumed and
the  acquisition of Alterra by the Fortress-Emeritus joint venture was approved.
This transaction  has  closed.  Alterra  remained  current  on  rental  payments
throughout the bankruptcy process.

     From  time to  time, there are  other various legal  proceedings pending to
which we are a party or to which  some of our properties are subject arising  in
the normal course of business. We do not believe that the ultimate resolution of
these  proceedings  will  have a  material  adverse effect  on  our consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     None.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
         ISSUER REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
prices of our common stock  on the New York Stock  Exchange, as reported on  the
Composite  Tape and dividends  paid per share. There  were 5,592 stockholders of
record as of March 11, 2004.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      SALES PRICE
                                                    ---------------   DIVIDENDS
                                                     HIGH     LOW       PAID
                                                    ------   ------   ---------
<S>                                                 <C>      <C>      <C>
2003
  First Quarter...................................  $27.92   $24.84    $0.585
  Second Quarter..................................   30.73    26.10     0.585
  Third Quarter...................................   31.82    29.25     0.585
  Fourth Quarter..................................   36.10    30.68     0.585
2002
  First Quarter...................................  $28.30   $24.08    $0.585
  Second Quarter..................................   31.82    27.41     0.585
  Third Quarter...................................   29.94    24.26     0.585
  Fourth Quarter..................................   28.65    24.27     0.585
</Table>

     Our Board of Directors approved a new quarterly dividend rate of $0.60  per
share  of common stock per  quarter, commencing with the  May 2004 dividend. Our
dividend policy is reviewed annually by the Board of Directors. The  declaration
and payment of quarterly dividends remains subject to the review and approval of
the Board of Directors.
                                        26
<PAGE>

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31,
2003, are  derived  from  our  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  (in
thousands, except per share data).

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                   --------------------------------------------------------------
                                      1999         2000         2001         2002         2003
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
OPERATING DATA
Revenues(1)......................  $  115,989   $  121,513   $  121,061   $  154,928   $  201,031
Expenses:
  Interest expense(1)............      23,343       30,756       28,410       39,432       54,144
  Provision for
     depreciation(1).............      13,869       18,263       25,805       36,384       51,078
  Other operating expenses(2)....       8,868        9,570       10,853       13,038       17,274
  Impairment of assets...........                                              2,298        2,792
  Loss on extinguishment of
     debt(3).....................                                   213          403
  Loss on investment.............                    2,000
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Total expenses...................      46,080       60,589       65,281       91,555      125,288
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Income from continuing
  operations.....................      69,909       60,924       55,780       63,373       75,743
Income from discontinued
  operations, net(1).............       5,729        7,132        4,769        4,286        6,997
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income.......................      75,638       68,056       60,549       67,659       82,740
Preferred stock dividends........      12,814       13,490       13,505       12,468        9,218
Preferred stock redemption
  charge.........................                                                           2,790
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income available to common
  stockholders...................  $   62,824   $   54,566   $   47,044   $   55,191   $   70,732
                                   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========
OTHER DATA
Average number of common shares
  outstanding:
  Basic..........................      28,128       28,418       30,534       36,702       43,572
  Diluted........................      28,384       28,643       31,027       37,301       44,201
PER SHARE DATA
Basic:
Income from continuing operations
  available to common
  stockholders...................  $     2.03   $     1.67   $     1.38   $     1.38   $     1.46
Discontinued operations, net.....        0.20         0.25         0.16         0.12         0.16
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income available to common
  stockholders...................        2.23         1.92         1.54         1.50         1.62
Diluted:
Income from continuing operations
  available to common
  stockholders...................  $     2.01   $     1.66   $     1.37   $     1.37   $     1.44
Discontinued operations, net.....        0.20         0.25         0.15         0.11         0.16
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income available to common
  stockholders...................        2.21         1.91         1.52         1.48         1.60
Cash distributions per common
  share..........................  $     2.27   $    2.335   $     2.34   $     2.34   $     2.34
</Table>

                                        27
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                   --------------------------------------------------------------
                                      1999         2000         2001         2002         2003
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
BALANCE SHEET DATA
Net real estate investments......  $1,241,722   $1,121,419   $1,213,564   $1,524,457   $1,992,446
Total assets.....................   1,271,171    1,156,904    1,269,843    1,594,110    2,182,731
Total debt.......................     538,842      439,752      491,216      676,331    1,013,184
Total liabilities................     564,175      458,297      511,973      696,878    1,033,052
Total stockholders' equity.......     706,996      698,607      757,870      897,232    1,149,679
</Table>

---------------

(1) In  accordance with FASB Statement No.  144, we have reclassified the income
    and expenses attributable to  the properties sold  subsequent to January  1,
    2002  to discontinued  operations. See Note  16 to  our audited consolidated
    financial statements.

(2) Other operating expenses include loan expense, provision for loan losses and
    general and administrative expenses.

(3) Effective January 1,  2003, in accordance  with FASB Statement  No. 145,  we
    reclassified  the  losses on  extinguishments of  debt in  2001 and  2002 to
    income from  continuing operations  rather than  as extraordinary  items  as
    previously required under FASB Statement No. 4.

                                        28
<PAGE>

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

     Health  Care REIT, Inc. is a self-administered, equity REIT that invests in
health  care  facilities,   primarily  skilled  nursing   and  assisted   living
facilities.  We also  invest in  specialty care  facilities. As  of December 31,
2003, long-term  care facilities,  which include  skilled nursing  and  assisted
living  facilities,  comprised approximately  92%  of our  investment portfolio.
Founded in 1970, we  were the first  REIT to invest  exclusively in health  care
facilities.

     As  of  December  31,  2003,  we  had  $2,003,466,000  of  net  real estate
investments, inclusive of credit enhancements,  in 328 facilities located in  33
states  and  managed by  47  different operators.  At  that date,  the portfolio
included 219  assisted living  facilities, 101  skilled nursing  facilities  and
eight specialty care facilities.

     Our  primary objectives  are to  protect stockholders'  capital and enhance
stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders  and
create  opportunities  to increase  dividend payments  from annual  increases in
rental and interest income  and portfolio growth. To  meet these objectives,  we
invest  primarily in long-term care  facilities managed by experienced operators
and diversify our investment portfolio by operator and geographic location.

     Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we anticipate
making additional investments in health care related facilities. New investments
are generally  funded  from  temporary  borrowings under  our  lines  of  credit
arrangements,  internally  generated cash  and the  proceeds derived  from asset
sales. Permanent financing  for future investments,  which replaces funds  drawn
under  the lines of  credit arrangements, is  expected to be  provided through a
combination of public and  private offerings of debt  and equity securities  and
the  incurrence of secured debt. We believe our liquidity and various sources of
available capital  are sufficient  to  fund operations,  meet debt  service  and
dividend requirements and finance future investments.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     On  July 23,  2003, Moody's  Investors Service  upgraded its  rating on our
senior unsecured notes from Ba1 to  Baa3. The credit strengths noted by  Moody's
included  moderate financial leverage, negligible secured debt, strong portfolio
management and underwriting  skills and improved  portfolio fundamentals in  our
skilled nursing and assisted living facilities.

     In  August  and September  2003, we  solicited  the consents  of registered
holders of our senior unsecured notes  to the adoption of certain amendments  to
the  Indenture, dated as  of April 17,  1997 (as amended  and supplemented) (the
"1997 Indenture"), with Fifth  Third Bank, as trustee  (the "Trustee"), and  the
Indenture,  dated as  of September  6, 2002  (as amended  and supplemented) (the
"2002 Indenture"), with  the Trustee.  After receiving the  requisite number  of
consents,  we entered  into Supplemental Indenture  No. 5 to  the 1997 Indenture
with the Trustee and Supplemental Indenture No. 2 to the 2002 Indenture with the
Trustee. As  amended,  the  supplemental indentures  modify  the  indentures  to
require  us to (a) limit the use of secured debt to 40% of undepreciated assets,
(b) limit total  debt to  60% of undepreciated  total assets,  and (c)  maintain
total unencumbered assets at 150% of total secured debt. These amendments to all
of  our then outstanding $615,000,000 of  senior unsecured notes are intended to
modernize  the   covenant   package   and  make   it   consistent   with   other
investment-grade  REITs. The  $250,000,000 in  senior unsecured  notes issued in
November 2003 have the same covenant package.

                                        29
<PAGE>

     The  following table summarizes our capital  activity during the year ended
December 31, 2003 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              GROSS      NET
DATE                     SECURITY               TYPE         PROCEEDS  PROCEEDS
----              ----------------------  -----------------  --------  --------
<S>               <C>                     <C>                <C>       <C>
March 2003......  Senior unsecured notes  Public issuance    $104,036  $103,286
July 2003.......  Common stock            Private placement    48,000    48,000
July 2003.......  Preferred stock         Public issuance     100,000    96,850
September
  2003..........  Common stock            Public issuance     111,320   105,763
September
  2003..........  Preferred stock         Private placement    26,500    26,500
November 2003...  Senior unsecured notes  Public issuance     250,000   248,163
Various.........  Common stock            DRIP                 68,860    68,860
                                                             --------  --------
Totals..........                                             $708,716  $697,422
                                                             ========  ========
</Table>

     During the  year  ended December  31,  2003, the  holder  of our  Series  C
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted 2,100,000 shares into 2,049,000
shares  of common  stock. At December  31, 2003, all  of the shares  of Series C
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock.

     In July 2003, we  instituted our enhanced  dividend reinvestment and  stock
purchase  plan  ("DRIP").  Existing  stockholders,  in  addition  to reinvesting
dividends, may  now  purchase up  to  $5,000 of  common  stock per  month  at  a
discount.  Investors who  are not  stockholders of the  Company may  now make an
initial investment in the Company  through the DRIP with  a minimum of a  $1,000
purchase.  In some instances, we may permit  investments in excess of $5,000 per
month if we approve a request for  a waiver. During the year ended December  31,
2003,  we issued 1,452,000 shares of  common stock under the standard provisions
of  our  DRIP,  which  generated  net  proceeds  of  approximately  $43,615,000.
Additionally,  we issued  825,000 shares of  common stock under  our DRIP waiver
program, which  generated  net  proceeds of  approximately  $25,245,000.  As  of
December  11, 2003 we had  an effective registration statement  on file with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission under  which we  may issue  up to  6,314,213
shares  of common stock  pursuant to the  DRIP. As of  March 11, 2004, 5,735,402
shares of common stock remained  available for issuance under this  registration
statement.

     On  July 9, 2003, we closed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of 7.875%
Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which generated net proceeds  of
approximately  $96,850,000. The  shares have a  liquidation value  of $25.00 per
share. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by  us
at  par on or after July  9, 2008. A portion of  the proceeds from this offering
were used  to redeem  all 3,000,000  shares of  our 8.875%  Series B  Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003, at a redemption price of $25.00 per
share plus accrued and unpaid dividends.

     On September 29, 2003, we issued 1,060,000 shares of 6% Series E Cumulative
Convertible  and  Redeemable Preferred  Stock  as partial  consideration  for an
acquisition of assets by the Company, with the shares valued at $26,500,000  for
such  purposes. The  shares were  issued to  Southern Assisted  Living, Inc. and
certain of its stockholders  without registration in  reliance upon the  federal
statutory  exemption of Section 4(2) of the  Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The shares have a  liquidation value of $25.00  per share. The preferred  stock,
which  has no stated maturity, may  be redeemed by us at  par on or after August
15, 2008. The preferred shares are convertible into common stock at a conversion
price of $32.66 per share at any time. During the year ended December 31,  2003,
certain  holders of our Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred
Stock converted 229,600 shares into 175,700 shares of common stock. At  December
31,  2003,  we  had  830,400  shares  of  Series  E  Cumulative  Convertible and
Redeemable Preferred Stock outstanding.

     During 2003, we invested $378,342,000 in real property, provided  permanent
mortgage  and  loan financings  of  $78,245,000, made  construction  advances of
$32,071,000 and funded $27,410,000  of subdebt investments.  As of December  31,
2003,  we had  approximately $15,501,000  in unfunded  construction commitments.
Also during 2003, we sold real  property generating $65,455,000 of net  proceeds
and collected

                                        30
<PAGE>

$55,847,000  and $1,234,000  as repayment of  principal on  loans receivable and
subdebt investments, respectively.

     As of December 31, 2003, we had stockholders' equity of $1,149,679,000  and
a  total outstanding debt balance of  $1,013,184,000, which represents a debt to
total capitalization ratio of 0.47 to 1.0.

     In May  2003, we  announced  the amendment  and  extension of  our  primary
unsecured  revolving  line  of  credit.  The  line  of  credit  was  expanded to
$225,000,000, expires in May 2006  (with the ability to  extend for one year  at
our  discretion if we are in compliance  with all covenants) and currently bears
interest at the lender's prime rate or LIBOR plus 1.3%, at our option. In August
2003, we  further  amended  the  line of  credit  to  modify  certain  financial
covenants  that will  enhance our financial  flexibility and  align our covenant
package with other investment grade REITs. Finally, in December 2003 and January
2004, we expanded this line of credit to $310,000,000.

     Also in May 2003, we repaid our $4,000,000 secured note and terminated  the
corresponding  agreement.  At  the  same  time,  we  increased  our  $25,000,000
unsecured line of credit to $30,000,000.  This line of credit bears interest  at
the  lender's prime rate or  2.0% plus LIBOR, at our  option, and expires in May
2004. Also, at December 31, 2003, we had a secured line of credit in the  amount
of  $60,000,000 bearing interest at the lender's  prime rate or LIBOR plus 2.0%,
at our option, with  a floor of 7.0%  that expired in February  2004. We do  not
intend  to  replace this  secured  facility. At  December  31, 2003,  we  had no
borrowings  outstanding  under  the  unsecured   or  secured  lines  of   credit
arrangements.

     As  of March 11, 2004, we had  an effective shelf registration on file with
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  under  which  we  may  issue  up  to
$581,794,619 of securities including debt securities, common and preferred stock
and warrants. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities
under  our shelf registration to invest in additional health care facilities and
to repay borrowings under our lines of credit arrangements.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

     We have guaranteed the payment of industrial revenue bonds for one assisted
living  facility  in  the  event  that  the  present  owner  defaults  upon  its
obligations.  In consideration for this guaranty,  we receive and recognize fees
annually related to this arrangement.  This guaranty expires upon the  repayment
of  the industrial revenue bonds which currently mature in 2009. At December 31,
2003, we were contingently liable for $3,195,000 under this guaranty.

                                        31
<PAGE>

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

     The  following table summarizes our  payment requirements under contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2003 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                         PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD
                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    LESS THAN                              MORE THAN
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS                                 TOTAL         1 YEAR     1-3 YEARS    3-5 YEARS     5 YEARS
-----------------------                             -------------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ---------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Unsecured lines of credit obligations(1)..........   $  340,000      $ 30,000     $310,000     $      0    $      0
Secured line of credit obligation(1)..............       60,000        60,000
Senior unsecured notes............................      865,000        40,000       50,000      275,000     500,000
Secured debt......................................      148,184         5,828        5,225       24,588     112,543
Contractual interest obligations..................      488,016        68,938      132,091      106,891     180,096
Capital lease obligations.........................
Operating lease obligations.......................       10,758         1,373        2,236        1,178       5,971
Purchase obligations..............................       77,944        17,730       45,412        6,000       8,802
Other long-term liabilities.......................
                                                     ----------      --------     --------     --------    --------
Total contractual obligations.....................   $1,989,902      $223,869     $544,964     $413,657    $807,412
                                                     ==========      ========     ========     ========    ========
</Table>

---------------

(1) Unsecured and secured lines of credit reflected at 100% capacity.

     We have an unsecured  credit arrangement with a  consortium of eight  banks
providing  for a revolving line of credit  ("revolving credit") in the amount of
$310,000,000, which  expires  on May  15,  2006. The  agreement  specifies  that
borrowings under the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods
no longer than three months on either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or
1.3%  over LIBOR interest rate,  at our option (2.43%  at December 31, 2003). In
addition, we pay  a commitment  fee based  on an annual  rate of  0.325% and  an
annual  agent's  fee  of  $50,000.  Principal  is  due  upon  expiration  of the
agreement. We have another unsecured line of credit arrangement with a bank  for
a  total of $30,000,000, which expires May  31, 2004. Borrowings under this line
of credit are subject to interest at either the bank's prime rate of interest or
2.00% over LIBOR interest rate, at our  option (4.00% at December 31, 2003)  and
are  due on demand. We had a $60,000,000 secured line of credit with interest at
the lender's prime rate or 2.0% over LIBOR, at our option, with a floor of  7.0%
(7.0%  at December 31, 2003) that expired in  February 2004. We do not intend to
replace this  secured facility.  At  December 31,  2003,  we had  no  borrowings
outstanding  under the  unsecured or  secured lines  of credit  arrangements. As
such, we had no contractual interest obligations related to unsecured or secured
lines of credit at December 31, 2003.

     We have $865,000,000 of senior  unsecured notes with fixed annual  interest
rates  ranging from 6.00% to  8.17%, payable semi-annually. Contractual interest
obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $428,644,000 at December 31, 2003.
Additionally, we have 30 mortgage loans totaling $148,184,000, collateralized by
health care facilities, with fixed annual  interest rates ranging from 6.18%  to
12.00%,  payable  monthly. The  carrying values  of  the health  care properties
securing  the  mortgage  loans  totaled  $219,575,000  at  December  31,   2003.
Contractual  interest  obligations  on  mortgage  loans  totaled  $59,372,000 at
December 31, 2003.

     At December 31,  2003, we  had operating lease  obligations of  $10,758,000
relating to Company office space and six assisted living facilities.

     Purchase obligations are comprised of unfunded construction commitments and
contingent  purchase  obligations.  At  December 31,  2003,  we  had outstanding
construction financings of  $14,865,000 ($14,701,000 for  leased properties  and
$164,000  for  construction loans)  and were  committed to  providing additional
financing of approximately $15,501,000 to complete construction. At December 31,
2003,  we  had  contingent  purchase  obligations  totaling  $62,443,000.  These
contingent   purchase  obligations  primarily  relate  to  deferred  acquisition
fundings.  Deferred  acquisition  fundings  are  contingent  upon  an   operator
satisfying certain

                                        32
<PAGE>

conditions such as payment coverage and  value tests. Rents due from the  tenant
are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DECEMBER 31, 2003 VS. DECEMBER 31, 2002

     Revenues were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     YEAR ENDED                 CHANGE
                                            -----------------------------   ---------------
                                            DEC. 31, 2003   DEC. 31, 2002      $        %
                                            -------------   -------------   -------   -----
<S>                                         <C>             <C>             <C>       <C>
Rental income.............................    $176,504        $125,601      $50,903    41 %
Interest income...........................      20,768          26,525       (5,757)  (22)%
Transaction fees and other income.........       3,759           2,802          957    34 %
                                              --------        --------      -------   -----
Totals....................................    $201,031        $154,928      $46,103    30 %
                                              ========        ========      =======   =====
</Table>

     We  generated increased  rental income  as a  result of  the acquisition of
properties for which we receive rent.  This was partially offset by a  reduction
in  interest income  due to  lower average  yields on  our loans  receivable and
non-recognition of interest  income related  to our mortgage  loan with  Doctors
Community  Health Care Corporation. Transaction  fees and other income increased
primarily as a result of  the gain from the sale  of our investment in  Atlantic
Healthcare Finance L.P.

     Expenses were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      YEAR ENDED                 CHANGE
                                             -----------------------------   --------------
                                             DEC. 31, 2003   DEC. 31, 2002      $       %
                                             -------------   -------------   -------   ----
<S>                                          <C>             <C>             <C>       <C>
Interest expense...........................    $ 54,144         $39,432      $14,712    37%
Provision for depreciation.................      51,078          36,384       14,694    40%
General and administrative.................      11,483           9,665        1,818    19%
Loan expense...............................       2,921           2,373          548    23%
Impairment of assets.......................       2,792           2,298          494    21%
Loss on extinguishment of debt.............                         403         (403)   n/a
Provision for loan losses..................       2,870           1,000        1,870   187%
                                               --------         -------      -------   ----
Totals.....................................    $125,288         $91,555      $33,733    37%
                                               ========         =======      =======   ====
</Table>

     The  increase in interest  expense from 2002  to 2003 was  primarily due to
higher average borrowings during  the year. This was  partially offset by  lower
average  interest rates  and an increase  in the amount  of capitalized interest
offsetting interest expense.

     We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to  finance
the  construction of properties owned directly  by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate
of interest that  approximates our cost  of financing. Our  interest expense  is
reduced  by  the amount  capitalized. Capitalized  interest  for the  year ended
December 31, 2003, totaled  $1,535,000, as compared with  $170,000 for the  same
period in 2002.

     The   provision  for  depreciation  increased  primarily  as  a  result  of
additional investments in properties owned directly by us.

     General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues  (including
revenues  from discontinued  operations) for the  year ended  December 31, 2003,
were 5.39% as compared with 5.83% for the same period in 2002.

     The  increase  in  loan  expense  was  primarily  due  to  the   additional
amortization  of costs related  to the unsecured lines  of credit amendments and
costs related  to obtaining  consents to  modify the  covenant packages  of  our
senior unsecured notes.

                                        33
<PAGE>

     During  the  year  ended December  31,  2003,  it was  determined  that the
projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net
book value and  an impairment charge  of $2,792,000 was  recorded to reduce  the
property  to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value of
the property was determined by an  independent appraisal. During the year  ended
December  31, 2002, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash flows
from three  properties  did  not  exceed  their  related  net  book  values  and
impairment charges of $2,298,000 were recorded to reduce the properties to their
estimated fair market values. The estimated fair market values of the properties
were  determined by offers to purchase  received from third parties or estimated
net sales proceeds.

     In April 2002, we purchased $35,000,000 of our outstanding senior unsecured
notes that were due in 2003 and recorded a charge of $403,000 in connection with
this early extinguishment.

     Due to increased collectibility  concerns related to  portions of our  loan
portfolio,  we  increased our  allowance for  losses on  loans receivable  by an
additional $1,870,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003.

     Other items were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                    YEAR ENDED                  CHANGE
                                           -----------------------------   ----------------
                                           DEC. 31, 2003   DEC. 31, 2002      $        %
                                           -------------   -------------   -------   ------
<S>                                        <C>             <C>             <C>       <C>
Gain (loss) on sales of properties.......     $ 4,139        $ (1,032)     $ 5,171   (501)%
Discontinued operations, net.............       2,858           5,318       (2,460)   (46)%
Preferred dividends......................      (9,218)        (12,468)       3,250    (26)%
Preferred stock redemption charge........      (2,790)                      (2,790)     n/a
                                              -------        --------      -------   ------
Totals...................................     $(5,011)       $ (8,182)     $ 3,171    (39)%
                                              =======        ========      =======   ======
</Table>

     During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, we sold properties  with
carrying  values of $61,316,000 and $53,311,000  for net gains of $4,139,000 and
net losses of $1,032,000, respectively. In August 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board  issued Statement  No.  144, Accounting  for the  Impairment  or
Disposal  of Long-Lived  Assets, which is  effective for  fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2001. We adopted  the standard effective January 1, 2002.  In
accordance  with Statement No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses
attributable  to  the  properties  sold   subsequent  to  January  1,  2002   to
discontinued operations. These properties generated $2,858,000 and $5,318,000 of
income after deducting depreciation and interest expense from rental revenue for
the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     The  decrease in preferred  dividends is primarily due  to the reduction in
average outstanding preferred shares. During  the year ended December 31,  2003,
the  holder of  our Series  C Cumulative  Convertible Preferred  Stock converted
2,100,000 shares  into  2,049,000 shares  of  common stock,  leaving  no  shares
outstanding at December 31, 2003 as compared to 2,100,000 at December 31, 2002.

     In  September 2003,  we issued 1,060,000  shares of 6%  Series E Cumulative
Convertible and  Redeemable  Preferred  Stock. During  the  three  months  ended
December  31, 2003, certain  holders of our Series  E Cumulative Convertible and
Redeemable Preferred  Stock  converted 229,600  shares  into 175,700  shares  of
common stock, leaving 830,400 outstanding at December 31, 2003.

     In  July 2003, we  closed a public  offering of 4,000,000  shares of 7.875%
Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.  A portion of the proceeds  from
this  offering were used to  redeem all 3,000,000 shares  of our 8.875% Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on July 15, 2003. In accordance with  EITF
Topic  D-42, the costs  to issue these  securities were recorded  as a non-cash,
non-recurring charge of  $2,790,000, or $0.06  per diluted share,  in the  third
quarter of 2003 to reduce net income available to common stockholders.

     As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income available to
common  stockholders was  $70,732,000, or $1.60  per diluted share,  for 2003 as
compared with $55,191,000, or $1.48 per  diluted share, for 2002. Excluding  the
impact  of the unusual and non-recurring  preferred stock redemption charge, net
income available to common  stockholders was $73,522,000,  or $1.66 per  diluted
share, for 2003.

                                        34
<PAGE>

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DECEMBER 31, 2002 VS. DECEMBER 31, 2001

     Revenues were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     YEAR ENDED                 CHANGE
                                            -----------------------------   ---------------
                                            DEC. 31, 2002   DEC. 31, 2001      $        %
                                            -------------   -------------   -------   -----
<S>                                         <C>             <C>             <C>       <C>
Rental income.............................    $125,601        $ 84,929      $40,672    48 %
Interest income...........................      26,525          31,294       (4,769)  (15)%
Transaction fees and other income.........       2,802           3,848       (1,046)  (27)%
Prepayment fees...........................                         990         (990)    n/a
                                              --------        --------      -------   -----
Totals....................................    $154,928        $121,061      $33,867    28 %
                                              ========        ========      =======   =====
</Table>

     We  generated increased  rental income  as a  result of  the acquisition of
properties for which we receive rent.  This was partially offset by a  reduction
in  interest income due to the repayment of mortgage loans. Transaction fees and
other income decreased primarily as a  result of the completion of  construction
projects.

     During  2001,  we  received  payoffs  on  mortgages  that  had  significant
prepayment fee requirements, generating $990,000  in that year. During 2002,  we
did not receive any prepayment fees with respect to mortgage loan payoffs.

     Expenses were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       YEAR ENDED                CHANGE
                                              -----------------------------   -------------
                                              DEC. 31, 2002   DEC. 31, 2001      $       %
                                              -------------   -------------   -------   ---
<S>                                           <C>             <C>             <C>       <C>
Interest expense............................     $39,432         $28,410      $11,022   39%
Provision for depreciation..................      36,384          25,805       10,579   41%
General and administrative..................       9,665           8,078        1,587   20%
Loan expense................................       2,373           1,775          598   34%
Impairment of assets........................       2,298                        2,298   n/a
Loss on extinguishment of debt..............         403             213          190   89%
Provision for loan losses...................       1,000           1,000            0    0%
                                                 -------         -------      -------   ---
Totals......................................     $91,555         $65,281      $26,274   40%
                                                 =======         =======      =======   ===
</Table>

     The  increase in interest  expense from 2001  to 2002 was  primarily due to
higher average  borrowings during  the year  and a  reduction in  the amount  of
capitalized interest offsetting interest expense.

     We  capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used to finance
the construction of properties owned directly  by us. The amount capitalized  is
based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate
of  interest that  approximates our cost  of financing. Our  interest expense is
reduced by  the amount  capitalized.  Capitalized interest  for the  year  ended
December  31, 2002,  totaled $170,000,  as compared  with $841,000  for the same
period in 2001.

     The  provision  for  depreciation  increased  primarily  as  a  result   of
additional investments in properties owned directly by us.

     General  and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues (including
revenues from discontinued  operations) for  the year ended  December 31,  2002,
were 5.83% as compared with 6.03% for the same period in 2001.

     The   increase  in  loan  expense  was  primarily  due  to  the  additional
amortization of costs related  to the unsecured line  of credit renewal and  the
senior unsecured notes issued in 2001 and 2002.

     During  the  year  ended December  31,  2002,  it was  determined  that the
projected undiscounted cash  flows from  three properties did  not exceed  their
related   net   book  values   and   impairment  charges   of   $2,298,000  were

                                        35
<PAGE>

recorded to reduce  the properties to  their estimated fair  market values.  The
estimated  fair market  values of  the properties  were determined  by offers to
purchase received from third parties or estimated net sales proceeds.

     In April 2002, we purchased $35,000,000 of our outstanding senior unsecured
notes that were due in 2003 and recorded a charge of $403,000 in connection with
this early extinguishment.  In September  2001, we purchased  $7,750,000 of  our
outstanding  unsecured senior notes that were due  in 2002 and recorded a charge
of $213,000 in connection with this early extinguishment.

     Other items were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      YEAR ENDED                 CHANGE
                                             -----------------------------   --------------
                                             DEC. 31, 2002   DEC. 31, 2001     $        %
                                             -------------   -------------   ------   -----
<S>                                          <C>             <C>             <C>      <C>
Gain (loss) on sales of properties.........    $ (1,032)       $ (1,250)     $  218   (17)%
Discontinued operations, net...............       5,318           6,019        (701)  (12)%
Preferred dividends........................     (12,468)        (13,505)      1,037    (8)%
                                               --------        --------      ------   -----
Totals.....................................    $ (8,182)       $ (8,736)     $  554    (6)%
                                               ========        ========      ======   =====
</Table>

     During the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, we sold properties  with
carrying  values of $53,311,000 and $23,829,000 for net losses of $1,032,000 and
$1,250,000, respectively.  In August  2001, the  Financial Accounting  Standards
Board  issued Statement  No. 144, Accounting  for the Impairment  or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after  December
15,  2001. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2002. In accordance with
Statement No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses attributable  to
the  properties sold subsequent  to January 1,  2002 to discontinued operations.
These properties generated $5,318,000 and  $6,019,000 of income after  deducting
depreciation  and  interest  expense from  rental  revenue for  the  years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     The decrease in preferred  dividends is primarily due  to the reduction  in
average  outstanding preferred shares. During the  year ended December 31, 2002,
the holder  of our  Series C  Cumulative Convertible  Preferred Stock  converted
900,000  shares into  878,000 shares of  common stock,  leaving 2,100,000 shares
outstanding at December 31, 2002, as compared to 3,000,000 at December 31, 2001.

     As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income available to
common stockholders was  $55,191,000, or $1.48  per diluted share,  for 2002  as
compared with $47,044,000, or $1.52 per diluted share, for 2001.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Our  consolidated  financial  statements are  prepared  in  accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require  us
to  make estimates  and assumptions  (see Note  1 to  the consolidated financial
statements). We  believe  that  of  our  significant  accounting  policies,  the
following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and
estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

  REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Revenue  is recorded in accordance  with Securities and Exchange Commission
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,  Revenue Recognition in Financial  Statements
("SAB  101"), as amended. SAB 101 requires that revenue be recognized after four
basic criteria are met.  These four criteria include  persuasive evidence of  an
arrangement,  the  rendering  of  service,  fixed  and  determinable  income and
reasonably  assured  collectibility.  If   the  collectibility  of  revenue   is
determined  incorrectly, the amount and timing  of our reported revenue could be
significantly affected. Interest income on  loans is recognized as earned  based
upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectibility
risk.  Operating lease income  generally includes base  rent payments plus fixed
annual rent increases, which  are recognized on a  straight-line basis over  the
minimum lease period subject to an evaluation of collectibility risk. This lease
income  is greater than the amount of cash received during the first half of the
lease term. In  some instances,  the leases  provide for  additional payment  of

                                        36
<PAGE>

rent  if the gross  operating revenues from the  property exceed a predetermined
threshold. Revenues are not recognized until those thresholds have been met.

  IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property
by property basis  to determine  if there  are indicators  of impairment.  These
indicators  may include anticipated operating losses  at the property level, the
tenant's inability to  make rent  payments, a decision  to dispose  of an  asset
before  the end of its estimated useful life  and changes in the market that may
permanently reduce the value of the property. If indicators of impairment exist,
then the undiscounted future cash flows from the most likely use of the property
are compared to the current net book  value. If the undiscounted cash flows  are
less  than the  net book value,  an impairment  loss would be  recognized to the
extent that  the net  book value  exceeds the  current fair  market value.  This
analysis  requires  us to  determine if  indicators of  impairment exist  and to
estimate the most likely stream of cash flows to be generated from the  property
during  the period the  property is expected  to be held.  If the projections or
assumptions change in  the future, we  may be required  to record an  impairment
charge and reduce the net book value of the property owned.

  ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

     The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to
absorb  potential  losses  in our  loans  receivable. The  determination  of the
allowance is based on a quarterly  evaluation of these loans, including  general
economic conditions and estimated collectibility of loan payments and principal.
We evaluate the collectibility of our loans receivable based on a combination of
factors,  including,  but not  limited to,  delinquency status,  historical loan
charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of  the
underlying property. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan
charge-offs,  additional allowances  or placement  on non-accrual  status may be
required. A loan is impaired when,  based on current information and events,  it
is  probable that  we will  be unable  to collect  all amounts  due as scheduled
according to the contractual  terms of the  original loan agreement.  Consistent
with  this  definition, all  loans on  non-accrual are  deemed impaired.  To the
extent circumstances improve and  the risk of  collectibility is diminished,  we
will return these loans to full accrual status.

  DEPRECIATION AND USEFUL LIVES

     We  compute depreciation on  our properties using  the straight-line method
based on  their estimated  useful lives  which range  from 15  to 40  years  for
buildings  and five to 15  years for improvements. A  significant portion of the
acquisition  cost  of   each  property   is  allocated   to  building   (usually
approximately  90%). The allocation of the  acquisition cost to building and the
determination of  the  useful  life  of  a  property  are  based  on  appraisals
commissioned from independent real estate appraisal firms. If we do not allocate
appropriately  to the building or if we  incorrectly estimate the useful life of
our properties, the computation of  depreciation will not appropriately  reflect
the carrying values of the properties over future periods.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

     During  the past three years, inflation  has not significantly affected our
earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, our earnings  are
primarily  long-term investments with  fixed rates of  return. These investments
are mainly financed  with a combination  of equity, senior  unsecured notes  and
borrowings  under our lines of credit arrangements. During inflationary periods,
which generally are accompanied  by rising interest rates,  our ability to  grow
may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a
slower  rate  than new  borrowing costs.  Presuming  the current  inflation rate
remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly,  we
believe  that  inflation will  not impact  the availability  of equity  and debt
financing.

                                        37
<PAGE>

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS

     We  have made  and incorporated by  reference statements in  this Form 10-K
that constitute  "forward-looking statements"  as that  term is  defined in  the
federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements concern:

     - the possible expansion of our portfolio;

     - the performance of our operators and properties;

     - our  ability  to  enter  into  agreements  with  new  viable  tenants for
       properties which we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any;

     - our ability to make distributions;

     - our policies  and  plans  regarding  investments,  financings  and  other
       matters;

     - our tax status as a real estate investment trust;

     - our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; and

     - our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds.

     When  we use words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate" or
similar expressions, we are  making forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking
statements  are  not  guaranties of  future  performance and  involve  risks and
uncertainties. Our expected results may not  be achieved and actual results  may
differ  materially  from  our expectations.  This  may  be a  result  of various
factors, including, but not limited to:

     - the status of the economy;

     - the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates;

     - changes in financing terms; and

     - the risks described below:

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR OPERATORS' REVENUES AND EXPENSES

     Our skilled nursing  and specialty  care facility  operators' revenues  are
primarily  driven by occupancy, Medicare  and Medicaid reimbursement and private
pay rates. Our assisted living facility operators' revenues are primarily driven
by occupancy and private pay rates. Expenses for these three types of facilities
are primarily driven by  the costs of labor,  food, utilities, taxes,  insurance
and  rent or debt service. Revenues  from government reimbursement have, and may
continue, to come  under pressure  due to  reimbursement cuts  and state  budget
shortfalls.  Liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our
operators. To the extent  that any decrease in  revenues and/or any increase  in
operating  expenses  result in  a facility  not generating  enough cash  to make
payments to us, the  credit of our  operator and the  value of other  collateral
would have to be relied upon.

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OPERATOR BANKRUPTCIES

     We  are exposed to the risk that our  operators may not be able to meet the
rent, principal and interest or  other payments due us,  which may result in  an
operator  bankruptcy or insolvency, or that  an operator might become subject to
bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for  other reasons. Although our  operating
lease  agreements provide  us the right  to evict an  operator, demand immediate
payment of rent and exercise other  remedies, and our mortgage loans provide  us
the  right to  terminate any funding  obligation, demand  immediate repayment of
principal and unpaid interest,  foreclose on the  collateral and exercise  other
remedies,  the bankruptcy laws afford  certain rights to a  party that has filed
for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to limit
or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive
unpaid principal and interest in  the case of a  mortgage loan, and to  exercise
other rights and remedies.

                                        38
<PAGE>

     The  receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of an operator that
has defaulted on its lease or loan  could be delayed by the approval process  of
any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or
the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. In addition, we
may  be  required  to  fund  certain  expenses  (e.g.,  real  estate  taxes  and
maintenance) to preserve the value of a facility, avoid the imposition of  liens
on  a  facility and/or  to  transition a  facility to  a  new operator.  In some
instances, we have terminated our lease with an operator and relet the  facility
to  another operator. In  some of those situations,  we provided working capital
loans to  and  limited  indemnification  of  the  new  operator.  If  we  cannot
transition  a leased facility to a new  operator, we may take possession of that
facility, which  may expose  us to  certain successor  liabilities. Should  such
events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected.

     On  November 20, 2002,  Doctors Community Health  Care Corporation and five
subsidiaries ("Doctors")  filed  for Chapter  11  bankruptcy protection  in  the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia. Doctors stated that
its  bankruptcy filing was  due to the bankruptcy  of National Century Financial
Enterprises and  affiliates, which  halted payments  to health  care  providers,
including Doctors. We have provided mortgage financing to Doctors in the form of
a loan secured by the Pacifica Hospital of the Valley in Sun Valley, CA, and the
other  assets  of the  Pacifica of  the  Valley Corporation,  one of  the debtor
subsidiaries. The outstanding  principal balance of  the loan was  approximately
$18,797,000  on  December  31,  2003. Pursuant  to  procedures  approved  by the
bankruptcy court, the assets of Doctors were  the subject of an auction held  on
December  10 through December 16,  2003. At the conclusion  of that auction, the
debtors' independent director  declared certain members  of Doctors'  management
the  winning bidder. Their bid contemplates  a reorganization of Doctors and its
subsidiaries with  new  equity and  debt  capitalization. The  results  of  this
auction  are subject to bankruptcy court approval, which the debtors have stated
they intend to  seek in connection  with a  hearing on the  confirmation of  the
debtors'  proposed plan of reorganization. Doctors anticipates that this hearing
should occur in March or  April 2004. Doctors did  not make an interest  payment
for  the  twelve months  ended  December 31,  2003.  We will  not  recognize any
interest on the loan until payment is received.

     Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra") filed for Chapter 11  bankruptcy
protection  on January 23,  2003 in the  United States Bankruptcy  Court for the
District of Delaware. We have a master lease with Alterra for 45 assisted living
facilities with a depreciated book value of $103,293,000 at December 31, 2003. A
joint venture between Fortress Investment Group LLC and Emeritus Corporation was
the winning bidder at a bankruptcy auction held on July 17, 2003. The bankruptcy
court confirmed  Alterra's  plan of  reorganization  on November  26,  2003.  In
connection with confirmation of Alterra's plan, our master lease was assumed and
the  acquisition of Alterra by the Fortress-Emeritus joint venture was approved.
This transaction  has  closed.  Alterra  remained  current  on  rental  payments
throughout the bankruptcy process.

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS

     Our  operators'  businesses are  affected  by government  reimbursement and
private payor rates. To  the extent that any  skilled nursing or specialty  care
facility  receives  a  significant  portion of  its  revenues  from governmental
payors, primarily  Medicare  and  Medicaid,  such revenues  may  be  subject  to
statutory  and  regulatory changes,  retroactive  rate adjustments,  recovery of
program   overpayments    or    set-offs,   administrative    rulings,    policy
interpretations,  payment or  other delays by  fiscal intermediaries, government
funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities)
and  interruption  or  delays  in  payments  due  to  any  ongoing  governmental
investigations and audits at such facility. In recent years, governmental payors
have  frozen  or reduced  payments  to health  care  providers due  to budgetary
pressures. This trend in health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of
paramount importance  to  federal and  state  authorities. We  cannot  make  any
assessment  as to the  ultimate timing or effect  any future legislative reforms
may have  on  the financial  condition  of  the skilled  nursing  industry,  the
specialty  care industry or on the health care industry in general. There can be
no assurance that adequate  reimbursement levels will  continue to be  available
for  services provided by  any facility operator,  whether the facility receives
reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or  private payors. Significant limits  on
the  scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have
a material adverse effect  on an operator's  liquidity, financial condition  and
results of

                                        39
<PAGE>

operations,  which could adversely affect the ability of an operator to meet its
obligations  to   us.  See   "Item   1  --   Business  --   Certain   Government
Regulations -- Reimbursement" above.

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO LIABILITY CLAIMS AND INSURANCE COSTS

     Long-term  care  facility operators  (assisted  living and  skilled nursing
facilities) have experienced substantial increases  in both the number and  size
of  patient care liability claims in recent years, particularly in the states of
Texas and Florida. As  a result, general and  professional liability costs  have
increased  and may  continue to  increase. Nationwide,  long-term care liability
insurance rates are increasing because of large jury awards in states like Texas
and Florida.  Over the  past two  years,  both Texas  and Florida  have  adopted
skilled  nursing  facility liability  laws that  modify  or limit  tort damages.
Despite some of these reforms, the long-term care industry overall continues  to
experience  very  high  general  and  professional  liability  costs.  Insurance
companies have  responded to  this claim  crisis by  severely restricting  their
capacity to write long-term care general and professional liability policies. No
assurances  can  be  given  that  the climate  for  long-term  care  general and
professional liability insurance will improve in any of the foregoing states  or
any  other  states  where  the facility  operators  conduct  business. Insurance
companies may  continue  to reduce  or  stop writing  general  and  professional
liability  policies for  skilled nursing  and assisted  living facilities. Thus,
general professional  liability insurance  coverage may  be restricted  or  very
costly,  which may adversely  affect the facility  operators' future operations,
cash flows and financial  condition, and may have  a material adverse effect  on
the facility operators' ability to meet their obligations to us.

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS

     We are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not prove to be
successful.  We  could  encounter  unanticipated  difficulties  and expenditures
relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly
acquired properties might  require significant management  attention that  would
otherwise   be  devoted  to  our  ongoing  business.  If  we  agree  to  provide
construction financing to an operator and  the project is not completed, we  may
need  to take  steps to ensure  completion of the  project or we  could lose the
property. Moreover, if we issue equity  securities or incur additional debt,  or
both,  to finance  future acquisitions,  it may  reduce our  per share financial
results. These costs may negatively affect our results of operations.

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

     Under various federal and  state laws, owners or  operators of real  estate
may  be  required to  respond  to the  release  of hazardous  substances  on the
property and  may be  held  liable for  property  damage, personal  injuries  or
penalties  that result from environmental  contamination. These laws also expose
us to the  possibility that  we become liable  to reimburse  the government  for
damages  and costs  it incurs in  connection with  the contamination. Generally,
such liability attaches to  a person based on  the person's relationship to  the
property.  Our lessees or borrowers are  primarily responsible for the condition
of the property and since we are  a passive landlord, we do not "participate  in
the  management" of  any property  in which  we have  an interest.  Moreover, we
review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or  encumber
prior  to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the
"all  appropriate  inquiry"  standard,  which  qualifies  us  for  the  innocent
purchaser   defense  if   environmental  liabilities  arise.   Based  upon  such
assessments, we  do  not believe  that  any of  our  properties are  subject  to
material  environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be
present in our  properties and we  may incur costs  to remediate  contamination,
which  could  have  a  material  adverse effect  on  our  business  or financial
condition.

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO REINVESTMENT OF SALE PROCEEDS

     From time to time,  we will have  cash available from  (1) the proceeds  of
sales  of  shares  of  our  securities,  (2)  principal  payments  on  our loans
receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective  dispositions,
under  the terms of master leases  or similar financial support arrangements. We
must re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in health care investments  or
in qualified short-term investments. We compete for real estate investments with
a  broad  variety  of  potential  investors.  This  competition  for  attractive
                                        40
<PAGE>

investments may  negatively affect  our ability  to make  timely investments  on
terms  acceptable to  us. Delays in  acquiring properties  may negatively impact
revenues and perhaps our ability to increase our distributions to stockholders.

  RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR STRUCTURE

     We are also subject to a number of risks on the corporate level. First,  we
might  fail to qualify or remain qualified as  a REIT. We intend to operate as a
REIT under the Internal Revenue  Code and believe we  have and will continue  to
operate  in such a manner. Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number
of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if
we do, our  earnings will  be reduced  by the amount  of federal  taxes owed.  A
reduction  in our earnings  would affect the  amount we could  distribute to our
stockholders. Also, if  we were not  a REIT, we  would not be  required to  make
distributions  to stockholders since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends
to stockholders amounting  to at  least 90% of  its annual  taxable income.  See
"Item  1 --  Business --  Taxation" for  a discussion  of the  provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification.

     Second, our Second  Restated Certificate of  Incorporation and Amended  and
Restated  By-Laws contain anti-takeover  provisions (staggered board provisions,
restrictions on share  ownership and  transfer, and  super majority  stockholder
approval  requirements  for  business  combinations)  that  could  make  it more
difficult for  or even  prevent a  third  party from  acquiring us  without  the
approval  of our incumbent Board of Directors.  Further, we have a "poison pill"
rights plan that has anti-takeover effects. The rights plan, if triggered, would
cause substantial dilution to a person or  group that attempts to acquire us  on
terms  not approved  by the Board  of Directors. Provisions  and agreements that
inhibit or discourage  takeover attempts could  reduce the market  value of  our
common stock.

     Third,  we are  dependent on key  personnel. Although we  have entered into
employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could,
at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. We believe  that
losing more than one would have a material adverse impact on our business.

                                        41
<PAGE>

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     We  are  exposed  to various  market  risks, including  the  potential loss
arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We seek to mitigate the  effects
of  fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with
new long-term  fixed  rate borrowings  to  the extent  possible.  The  following
section  is  presented to  provide  a discussion  of  the risks  associated with
potential fluctuations in interest rates.

     We historically  borrow  on  our  lines  of  credit  arrangements  to  make
acquisitions  of,  loans to  or to  construct health  care facilities.  Then, as
market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt  to
repay the borrowings under the lines of credit arrangements.

     A  change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated
with our fixed rate debt. Interest  rate changes, however, will affect the  fair
value  of such debt. A 1% increase in  interest rates would result in a decrease
in fair value  of our  senior unsecured  notes by  approximately $31,473,000  at
December  31, 2003 ($15,145,000  at December 31, 2002).  Changes in the interest
rate environment upon maturity of this fixed  rate debt could have an effect  on
our  future cash flows and  earnings, depending on whether  the debt is replaced
with other fixed rate debt, with variable rate debt, with equity or by the  sale
of assets.

     Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured and secured lines of credit
arrangements,  is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2003, we did not have
any  borrowings  outstanding  on  our  unsecured  or  secured  lines  of  credit
arrangements.  As such, a 1% increase in  interest rates would have no effect on
our annual  interest expense.  However,  as an  example, if  borrowings  totaled
$50,000,000,  a 1% increase  in interest rates would  result in increased annual
interest expense  of  $500,000.  At  December  31,  2002,  we  had  $113,500,000
outstanding  related  to this  variable  rate debt  and  assuming no  changes in
outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in  increased
annual interest expense of $1,135,000.

     We  are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk
that existing  indebtedness may  not be  refinanced or  that the  terms of  such
refinancing  may not be as  favorable as the terms  of current indebtedness. The
majority of our borrowings were completed pursuant to indentures or  contractual
agreements  that limit the amount of  indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in
the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money  because
of  these  limitations,  our ability  to  acquire additional  properties  may be
limited.

     We may or may  not elect to use  financial derivative instruments to  hedge
variable  interest rate  exposure. Such decisions  are principally  based on our
policy to match our  variable rate investments  with comparable borrowings,  but
are  also based on the  general trend in interest  rates at the applicable dates
and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates.

                                        42
<PAGE>

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Stockholders and Directors
Health Care REIT, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care
REIT, Inc.  as of  December 31,  2003  and 2002,  and the  related  consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years  in  the period  ended December  31,  2003. Our  audits also  included the
financial statement  schedules  listed  in  the Index  at  Item  15  (a).  These
financial  statements  and schedules  are  the responsibility  of  the Company's
management. Our  responsibility is  to  express an  opinion on  these  financial
statements and schedules based on our audits.

     We  conducted our  audits in  accordance with  auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit  also includes  assessing the  accounting principles  used and significant
estimates made  by  management, as  well  as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation. We believe  that our audits  provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present  fairly,
in  all material  respects, the consolidated  financial position  of Health Care
REIT, Inc. at December 31,  2003 and 2002, and  the consolidated results of  its
operations  and its cash flows  for each of the three  years in the period ended
December 31, 2003, in conformity  with accounting principles generally  accepted
in  the United  States. Also,  in our  opinion, the  related financial statement
schedules, when considered in relation  to the basic financial statements  taken
as  a whole, present fairly  in all material respects  the information set forth
therein.

     As discussed in Note  9 to the consolidated  financial statements, in  2003
the  Company  adopted the  provisions  of Financial  Accounting  Standards Board
Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. As discussed in Note
16 to the  consolidated financial statements,  in 2002 the  Company adopted  the
provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 144, Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.

                                          /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Toledo, Ohio
January 16, 2004

                                        43
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                    DECEMBER 31
                                                              -----------------------
                                                                 2003         2002
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                  (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
                                       ASSETS
Real estate investments:
  Real property owned
     Land...................................................  $  166,408   $  112,044
     Buildings & improvements...............................   1,712,868    1,288,520
     Construction in progress...............................      14,701       19,833
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                               1,893,977    1,420,397
     Less accumulated depreciation..........................    (152,440)    (113,579)
                                                              ----------   ----------
     Total real property owned..............................   1,741,537    1,306,818
  Loans receivable
     Real property loans....................................     213,480      208,016
     Subdebt investments....................................      45,254       14,578
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                 258,734      222,594
  Less allowance for losses on loans receivable.............      (7,825)      (4,955)
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                 250,909      217,639
                                                              ----------   ----------
     Net real estate investments............................   1,992,446    1,524,457
Other assets:
  Equity investments........................................       3,299        7,494
  Deferred loan expenses....................................      10,331        9,291
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................     124,496        9,550
  Receivables and other assets..............................      52,159       43,318
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                 190,285       69,653
                                                              ----------   ----------
Total assets................................................  $2,182,731   $1,594,110
                                                              ==========   ==========
                        LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Liabilities:
  Borrowings under unsecured lines of credit obligations....  $        0   $  109,500
  Senior unsecured notes....................................     865,000      515,000
  Secured debt..............................................     148,184       51,831
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities....................      19,868       20,547
                                                              ----------   ----------
Total liabilities...........................................   1,033,052      696,878
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $1.00 par value:.........................     120,761      127,500
     Authorized -- 25,000,000 shares
     Issued and outstanding -- 4,830,444 shares in 2003 and
      5,100,000 shares in 2002 at liquidation preference
  Common stock, $1.00 par value:............................      50,298       40,086
     Authorized -- 125,000,000 shares
     Issued -- 50,376,551 shares in 2003 and 40,085,827
      shares in 2002
     Outstanding -- 50,361,505 shares in 2003 and 40,085,827
      shares in 2002
  Capital in excess of par value............................   1,069,887      790,838
  Treasury stock............................................        (523)
  Cumulative net income.....................................     660,446      580,496
  Cumulative dividends......................................    (749,166)    (638,085)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income....................           1         (170)
  Other equity..............................................      (2,025)      (3,433)
                                                              ----------   ----------
Total stockholders' equity..................................   1,149,679      897,232
                                                              ----------   ----------
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity..................  $2,182,731   $1,594,110
                                                              ==========   ==========
</Table>

                             See accompanying notes
                                        44
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                              --------------------------------------
                                                                 2003          2002          2001
                                                              -----------   -----------   ----------
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues:
  Rental income.............................................   $176,504      $125,601      $84,929
  Interest income...........................................     20,768        26,525       31,294
  Transaction fees and other income.........................      3,759         2,802        3,848
  Prepayment fees...........................................                                   990
                                                               --------      --------      -------
                                                                201,031       154,928      121,061
Expenses:
  Interest expense..........................................     54,144        39,432       28,410
  Provision for depreciation................................     51,078        36,384       25,805
  General and administrative................................     11,483         9,665        8,078
  Loan expense..............................................      2,921         2,373        1,775
  Impairment of assets......................................      2,792         2,298
  Loss on extinguishment of debt............................                      403          213
  Provision for loan losses.................................      2,870         1,000        1,000
                                                               --------      --------      -------
                                                                125,288        91,555       65,281
                                                               --------      --------      -------
Income from continuing operations...........................     75,743        63,373       55,780
Discontinued operations:
  Net gain (loss) on sales of properties....................      4,139        (1,032)      (1,250)
  Income from discontinued operations, net..................      2,858         5,318        6,019
                                                               --------      --------      -------
                                                                  6,997         4,286        4,769
Net income..................................................     82,740        67,659       60,549
Preferred stock dividends...................................      9,218        12,468       13,505
Preferred stock redemption charge...........................      2,790
                                                               --------      --------      -------
Net income available to common stockholders.................   $ 70,732      $ 55,191      $47,044
                                                               ========      ========      =======
Average number of common shares outstanding:
  Basic.....................................................     43,572        36,702       30,534
  Diluted...................................................     44,201        37,301       31,027
Earnings per share:
  Basic:
     Income from continuing operations available to common
       stockholders.........................................   $   1.46      $   1.38      $  1.38
     Discontinued operations, net...........................       0.16          0.12         0.16
                                                               --------      --------      -------
     Net income available to common stockholders............   $   1.62      $   1.50      $  1.54
  Diluted:
     Income from continuing operations and after preferred
       stock dividends......................................   $   1.44      $   1.37      $  1.37
     Discontinued operations, net...........................       0.16          0.11         0.15
                                                               --------      --------      -------
     Net income available to common stockholders............   $   1.60      $   1.48      $  1.52
</Table>

                             See accompanying notes
                                        45
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
<Table>
<Caption>

                                                                  CAPITAL IN              CUMULATIVE
                                            PREFERRED   COMMON    EXCESS OF    TREASURY      NET
                                              STOCK      STOCK    PAR VALUE     STOCK       INCOME
                                            ---------   -------   ----------   --------   ----------
                                                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                         <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>
Balances at January 1, 2001...............  $150,000    $28,806   $  528,138    $   0      $452,288
Comprehensive income:
 Net income...............................                                                   60,549
 Other comprehensive income:
 Unrealized loss on equity investments....
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment.............................
Total comprehensive income................
Proceeds from issuance of common stock
 from dividend reinvestment and stock
 incentive plans, net of forfeitures......                 484        10,070
Restricted stock amortization.............
Net proceeds from sale of common stock....               3,450        70,734
Cash dividends:
 Common stock-$2.335 per share............
 Preferred stock, Series B-$2.22 per
   share..................................
 Preferred stock, Series C-$2.27 per
   share..................................
                                            --------    -------   ----------    -----      --------
Balances at December 31, 2001.............   150,000    32,740       608,942        0       512,837
Comprehensive income:
 Net income...............................                                                   67,659
 Other comprehensive income:
 Unrealized loss on equity investments....
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment.............................
Total comprehensive income................
Proceeds from issuance of common stock
 from dividend reinvestment and stock
 incentive plans, net of forfeitures......               1,182        25,373
Restricted stock amortization.............
Net proceeds from sale of common stock....               5,286       134,901
Conversion of preferred stock.............   (22,500)      878        21,622
Cash dividends:
 Common stock-$2.34 per share.............
 Preferred stock, Series B-$2.22 per
   share..................................
 Preferred stock, Series C-$2.28 per
   share..................................
                                            --------    -------   ----------    -----      --------
Balances at December 31, 2002.............   127,500    40,086       790,838        0       580,496
Comprehensive income:
 Net income...............................                                                   82,740
 Other comprehensive income:
 Unrealized loss on equity investments....
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment.............................
Total comprehensive income................
Proceeds from issuance of common stock
 from dividend reinvestment and stock
 incentive plans, net of forfeitures......               2,725        75,649     (523)
Restricted stock amortization.............
Option compensation expense...............
Proceeds from issuance of preferred
 stock....................................   126,500                  (3,150)
Redemption of preferred stock.............   (75,000)                  2,790                 (2,790)
Net proceeds from sale of common stock....               5,263       147,745
Conversion of preferred stock.............   (58,239)    2,224        56,015
Cash dividends:
 Common stock-$2.34 per share.............
 Preferred stock, Series B-$2.22 per
   share..................................
 Preferred stock, Series C-$2.25 per
   share..................................
 Preferred stock, Series D-$1.97 per
   share..................................
 Preferred stock, Series E-$1.50 per
   share..................................
                                            --------    -------   ----------    -----      --------
Balances at December 31, 2003.............  $120,761    $50,298   $1,069,887    $(523)     $660,446
                                            ========    =======   ==========    =====      ========

<Caption>
                                                          ACCUMULATED
                                                             OTHER
                                            CUMULATIVE   COMPREHENSIVE    OTHER
                                            DIVIDENDS       INCOME       EQUITY      TOTAL
                                            ----------   -------------   -------   ----------
                                                  (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                         <C>          <C>             <C>       <C>
Balances at January 1, 2001...............  $(455,676)       $(744)      $(4,205)  $  698,607
Comprehensive income:
 Net income...............................                                             60,549
 Other comprehensive income:
 Unrealized loss on equity investments....                     (52)                       (52)
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment.............................                    (127)                      (127)
                                                                                   ----------
Total comprehensive income................                                             60,370
                                                                                   ----------
Proceeds from issuance of common stock
 from dividend reinvestment and stock
 incentive plans, net of forfeitures......                                (1,739)       8,815
Restricted stock amortization.............                                 1,164        1,164
Net proceeds from sale of common stock....                                             74,184
Cash dividends:
 Common stock-$2.335 per share............    (71,765)                                (71,765)
 Preferred stock, Series B-$2.22 per
   share..................................     (6,656)                                 (6,656)
 Preferred stock, Series C-$2.27 per
   share..................................     (6,849)                                 (6,849)
                                            ---------        -----       -------   ----------
Balances at December 31, 2001.............   (540,946)        (923)       (4,780)     757,870
Comprehensive income:
 Net income...............................                                             67,659
 Other comprehensive income:
 Unrealized loss on equity investments....                     (66)                       (66)
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment.............................                     819                        819
                                                                                   ----------
Total comprehensive income................                                             68,412
                                                                                   ----------
Proceeds from issuance of common stock
 from dividend reinvestment and stock
 incentive plans, net of forfeitures......                                  (208)      26,347
Restricted stock amortization.............                                 1,555        1,555
Net proceeds from sale of common stock....                                            140,187
Conversion of preferred stock.............                                                  0
Cash dividends:
 Common stock-$2.34 per share.............    (84,671)                                (84,671)
 Preferred stock, Series B-$2.22 per
   share..................................     (6,656)                                 (6,656)
 Preferred stock, Series C-$2.28 per
   share..................................     (5,812)                                 (5,812)
                                            ---------        -----       -------   ----------
Balances at December 31, 2002.............   (638,085)        (170)       (3,433)     897,232
Comprehensive income:
 Net income...............................                                             82,740
 Other comprehensive income:
 Unrealized loss on equity investments....                     (11)                       (11)
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment.............................                     182                        182
                                                                                   ----------
Total comprehensive income................                                             82,911
                                                                                   ----------
Proceeds from issuance of common stock
 from dividend reinvestment and stock
 incentive plans, net of forfeitures......                                    53       77,904
Restricted stock amortization.............                                 1,182        1,182
Option compensation expense...............                                   173          173
Proceeds from issuance of preferred
 stock....................................                                            123,350
Redemption of preferred stock.............                                            (75,000)
Net proceeds from sale of common stock....                                            153,008
Conversion of preferred stock.............                                                  0
Cash dividends:
 Common stock-$2.34 per share.............   (101,863)                               (101,863)
 Preferred stock, Series B-$2.22 per
   share..................................     (3,605)                                 (3,605)
 Preferred stock, Series C-$2.25 per
   share..................................     (1,439)                                 (1,439)
 Preferred stock, Series D-$1.97 per
   share..................................     (3,784)                                 (3,784)
 Preferred stock, Series E-$1.50 per
   share..................................       (390)                                   (390)
                                            ---------        -----       -------   ----------
Balances at December 31, 2003.............  $(749,166)       $   1       $(2,025)  $1,149,679
                                            =========        =====       =======   ==========
</Table>

                             See accompanying notes
                                        46
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                            ---------------------------------
                                                              2003        2002        2001
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                     (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income................................................  $  82,740   $  67,659   $  60,549
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
  from operating activities:
     Provision for depreciation...........................     52,870      40,350      30,464
     Amortization.........................................      3,957       3,928       2,977
     Provision for loan losses............................      2,870       1,000       1,000
     Impairment of assets.................................      2,792       2,298
     Transaction fees earned greater than cash received...                 (1,530)     (1,039)
     Rental income in excess of cash received.............    (14,928)     (9,256)     (6,614)
     Equity in (earnings) losses of affiliated
       companies..........................................       (270)        (15)       (332)
     (Gain) loss on sales of properties...................     (4,139)      1,032       1,250
     Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other
       liabilities........................................       (679)      1,320       3,249
     Decrease (increase) in receivables and other
       assets.............................................      4,308      (1,419)     (2,822)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities.....    129,521     105,367      88,682
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Investment in real property...............................   (410,413)   (409,706)   (147,081)
Investment in loans receivable and subdebt investments....   (105,655)    (88,516)    (48,284)
Other investments, net of payments........................      4,637        (228)       (913)
Principal collected on loans receivable and subdebt
  investments.............................................     57,081      92,970      94,337
Proceeds from sales of properties.........................     65,455      52,279      22,579
Other.....................................................        149        (229)       (262)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities.....   (388,746)   (353,430)    (79,624)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Net increase (decrease) under unsecured lines of credit
  arrangements............................................   (109,500)    109,500    (119,900)
Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes and
  secured debt............................................    350,000     150,000     175,000
Principal payments on senior unsecured notes..............                (47,250)    (17,750)
Principal payments on secured debt........................     (4,891)    (29,383)    (31,090)
Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock............    231,435     166,534      82,999
Net proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock.........     96,850
Redemption of preferred stock.............................    (75,000)
Decrease (increase) in deferred loan expense..............     (3,642)     (4,475)     (6,065)
Cash distributions to stockholders........................   (111,081)    (97,139)    (85,270)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities.....    374,171     247,787      (2,076)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents..........    114,946        (276)      6,982
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year............      9,550       9,826       2,844
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year..................  $ 124,496   $   9,550   $   9,826
                                                            =========   =========   =========
Supplemental cash flow information-interest paid..........  $  50,698   $  39,466   $  29,014
                                                            =========   =========   =========
</Table>

                             See accompanying notes
                                        47
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS

 INDUSTRY

     We  are  a  self-administered,  equity real  estate  investment  trust that
invests primarily in  long-term care facilities,  which include skilled  nursing
and assisted living facilities. We also invest in specialty care facilities.

 PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The  consolidated financial statements include  the accounts of the Company
and our  wholly owned  subsidiaries  after the  elimination of  all  significant
intercompany accounts and transactions.

 USE OF ESTIMATES

     The  preparation of the financial  statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with  an
original maturity of three months or less.

 LOANS RECEIVABLE

     Loans  receivable consist  of mortgage  loans, construction  loans, working
capital loans and subdebt investments. Interest income on loans is recognized as
earned based upon the principal amount  outstanding subject to an evaluation  of
collectibility risks. The mortgage loans are primarily collateralized by a first
or  second mortgage lien  or leasehold mortgage on  or assignment of partnership
interest in  the related  facilities. The  working capital  loans are  generally
secured   by  interests   in  receivables  and   corporate  guaranties.  Subdebt
investments represent debt instruments to operators of facilities that have been
financed by  us.  These obligations  are  generally secured  by  the  operator's
leasehold rights and corporate guaranties.

 REAL PROPERTY OWNED

     Real  property owned consists of land,  buildings and improvements owned by
us. The allocation of the acquisition costs of properties is based on appraisals
commissioned from independent real estate appraisal firms. Substantially all  of
the properties owned by us are leased under operating leases and are recorded at
cost.  These  properties are  depreciated on  a  straight-line basis  over their
estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to
15 years for improvements. The net  book value of long-lived assets is  reviewed
quarterly   on  a  property  by  property   basis  to  determine  if  facts  and
circumstances suggest that the  assets may be impaired  or that the  depreciable
life  may need  to be  changed. We  consider external  factors relating  to each
asset. If these external  factors and the projected  undiscounted cash flows  of
the  asset over the  remaining depreciation period indicate  that the asset will
not be recoverable, the  carrying value will be  adjusted to the estimated  fair
market  value. The leases  generally extend for a  minimum seven-year period and
provide for payment of all taxes,  insurance and maintenance by the tenants.  In
general,  operating lease income  includes base rent  payments plus fixed annual
rent increases, which are recognized on  a straight-line basis over the  minimum
lease  period subject to  an evaluation of collectibility  risks. This income is
greater than the  amount of cash  received during  the first half  of the  lease
term.

                                        48
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

 CAPITALIZATION OF CONSTRUCTION PERIOD INTEREST

     We  capitalize interest  costs associated  with funds  used to  finance the
construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based
upon the balance outstanding  during the construction period  using the rate  of
interest which approximates our cost of financing.

     We capitalized interest costs of $1,535,000, $170,000, and $841,000, during
2003,  2002 and  2001, respectively,  related to  construction of  real property
owned by us. Our  interest expense reflected in  the consolidated statements  of
income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.

 DEFERRED LOAN EXPENSES

     Deferred  loan expenses  are costs  incurred by  us in  connection with the
issuance and  amendments of  short-term and  long-term debt.  We amortize  these
costs  over  the  term  of  the  debt  using  the  straight-line  method,  which
approximates the interest yield method.

 ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

     The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to
absorb potential  losses  in our  loans  receivable. The  determination  of  the
allowance  is based on a quarterly  evaluation of these loans, including general
economic conditions and estimated collectibility  of loan payments. We  evaluate
the  collectibility of our  loans receivable based on  a combination of factors,
including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan  charge-offs,
financial  strength of the  borrower and guarantors and  value of the underlying
property.  If  such  factors  indicate  that  there  is  greater  risk  of  loan
charge-offs,  additional allowances  or placement  on non-accrual  status may be
required. A loan is impaired when,  based on current information and events,  it
is  probable that  we will  be unable  to collect  all amounts  due as scheduled
according to the contractual  terms of the  original loan agreement.  Consistent
with  this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. At December
31, 2003, we had loans with  outstanding balances of $30,523,000 on  non-accrual
status ($15,311,000 at December 31, 2002). A significant portion of this balance
relates  to our mortgage loan with Doctors Community Health Care Corporation. To
the extent circumstances improve and  the risk of collectibility is  diminished,
we will return these loans to full accrual status.

 EQUITY INVESTMENTS

     We  had an investment in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P., a property group
that specializes in the financing,  through sale and leaseback transactions,  of
nursing  and  care homes  located  in the  United  Kingdom. This  investment was
accounted for using the equity method  of accounting because we had the  ability
to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee due to our
31%  ownership interest.  In October  2003, we  sold our  investment in Atlantic
Healthcare Finance L.P. generating a net gain of $902,000.

     Other equity  investments,  which consist  of  investments in  private  and
public companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise influence, are
accounted  for  under the  cost  method. Under  the  cost method  of accounting,
investments in private companies are carried  at cost and are adjusted only  for
other-than-temporary  declines  in  fair value,  distributions  of  earnings and
additional investments. For  investments in public  companies that have  readily
determinable   fair  market  values,  we  classify  our  equity  investments  as
available-for-sale and,  accordingly, record  these  investments at  their  fair
market  values with  unrealized gains and  losses included  in accumulated other
comprehensive income,  a  separate  component  of  stockholders'  equity.  These
investments represent a minimal ownership interest in these companies.

 FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

     For  our  investment in  Atlantic Healthcare  Finance L.P.,  the functional
currency was the  local currency.  The income and  expenses of  the entity  were
translated   into   U.S.  dollars   using   the  average   exchange   rates  for
                                        49
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the reporting period to derive our equity earnings. Translation adjustments were
recorded in  accumulated other  comprehensive income,  a separate  component  of
stockholders' equity.

 TRANSACTION FEES

     Transaction  fees are earned by us for  our agreement to provide direct and
standby financing to, and credit enhancement for, owners and operators of health
care facilities. We amortize transaction fees over the initial fixed term of the
lease, the loan or the construction period related to such investments.

 FEDERAL INCOME TAX

     No provision has been made for  federal income taxes since we have  elected
to  be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code, and we  believe that we have met the  requirements
for qualification as such for each taxable year. See Note 11.

 NET INCOME PER SHARE

     Basic  earnings per share  is computed by dividing  net income available to
common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the
period adjusted for non-vested  shares of restricted  stock. The computation  of
diluted  earnings per share is similar to  basic earnings per share, except that
the number of  shares is increased  to include the  number of additional  common
shares  that  would have  been outstanding  if  the potentially  dilutive common
shares had been issued.

 ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     Accumulated other comprehensive income includes unrealized gains or  losses
on  our equity investments  ($1,000 and $12,000  at December 31,  2003 and 2002,
respectively) and foreign currency translation adjustments ($0 and ($182,000) at
December  31,  2003  and  2002,  respectively).  These  items  are  included  as
components of stockholders' equity.

 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In  April  2002, the  Financial  Accounting Standards  Board  (FASB) issued
Statement No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 62, Amendment of
FASB Statement No. 13, and  Technical Corrections. Statement 145 requires  gains
and  losses on extinguishments of  debt to be classified  as income or loss from
continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as previously  required
under  Statement  4.  Extraordinary  treatment  will  be  required  for  certain
extinguishments as provided in  APB Opinion No. 30.  Statement 145 is  effective
for  fiscal years  beginning after  December 15,  2002. We  adopted the standard
effective January 1, 2003.

     Effective January 1,  2003, we commenced  recognizing compensation  expense
for  employee stock  options in accordance  with Statement 123  on a prospective
basis. See Note 9.

     In January 2003, the  FASB issued Interpretation  No. 46, Consolidation  of
Variable  Interest Entities,  an interpretation of  Accounting Research Bulletin
No. 51 (the  Interpretation). The Interpretation  requires the consolidation  of
variable  interest entities  in which  an enterprise  absorbs a  majority of the
entity's expected losses, receives a majority of the entity's expected  residual
returns,  or  both, as  a result  of ownership,  contractual or  other financial
interests in the entity.  Currently, entities are  generally consolidated by  an
enterprise  that has  a controlling  financial interest  through ownership  of a
majority voting  interest in  the entity.  The Interpretation  is effective  for
financial statements issued for the first period ending after March 15, 2004. We
are   currently  evaluating  the  effects,  if  any,  of  the  issuance  of  the
Interpretation.

                                        50
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In  May 2003,  the FASB  issued Statement  No. 150,  Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments  with  Characteristics  of Both  Liabilities  and  Equity.
Statement  150  requires that  certain  financial instruments  be  classified as
liabilities  (or  assets  in  certain  circumstances)  rather  than  as  equity.
Statement  150  is  effective  at  the beginning  of  the  first  interim period
beginning after June 15,  2003. We adopted the  standard effective July 1,  2003
and  have  determined that  none of  our financial  instruments are  impacted by
Statement 150.

     Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Topic D-42, The Effect on the Calculation
of Earnings per  Share for  the Redemption  or Induced  Conversion of  Preferred
Stock,  provides, among other things,  that any excess of  (1) the fair value of
the consideration transferred to  the holders of  preferred stock redeemed  over
(2)  the carrying amount  of the preferred  stock should be  subtracted from net
earnings to  determine  net  income  available to  common  stockholders  in  the
calculation of earnings per share. At the July 31, 2003 meeting of the EITF, the
Securities  and  Exchange Commission  Observer  clarified that  for  purposes of
applying EITF Topic D-42, the carrying  amount of the preferred stock should  be
reduced by the issuance costs of the preferred stock, regardless of where in the
stockholders'   equity  section  those  costs  were  initially  classified  upon
issuance. On  July 15,  2003, we  redeemed all  3,000,000 shares  of our  8.875%
Series  B  Cumulative  Redeemable  Preferred Stock.  The  costs  to  issue these
securities were recorded as a reduction to paid-in capital, and to implement the
clarified accounting pronouncement, we recorded a non-cash, non-recurring charge
of $2,790,000, or  $0.06 per  diluted share,  in the  third quarter  of 2003  to
reduce net income available to common stockholders.

2. LOANS RECEIVABLE

     The following is a summary of loans receivable (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              DECEMBER 31
                                                          -------------------
                                                            2003       2002
                                                          --------   --------
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>
Mortgage loans.........................................   $163,869   $178,942
Mortgage loans to related parties......................        270        819
Construction loans.....................................        164
Working capital loans..................................     49,177     28,255
Subdebt investments....................................     45,254     14,578
                                                          --------   --------
Totals.................................................   $258,734   $222,594
                                                          ========   ========
</Table>

     Loans  to related parties  (an entity whose  ownership includes one Company
director) included above are at rates comparable to other third-party  borrowers
equal  to or greater  than our net  interest cost on  borrowings to support such
loans. The amount of  interest income and commitment  fees from related  parties
amounted   to  $36,000,  $59,000,   and  $108,000  for   2003,  2002  and  2001,
respectively.

                                        51
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

        The following is a summary of mortgage loans at December 31, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
 FINAL    NUMBER                                                   PRINCIPAL
PAYMENT     OF                                                     AMOUNT AT    CARRYING
  DUE     LOANS                    PAYMENT TERMS                   INCEPTION     AMOUNT
-------   ------   ---------------------------------------------   ---------    --------
                                                                      (IN THOUSANDS)
<C>       <C>      <S>                                             <C>          <C>
 2002        1     Monthly payments of $200,971,                   $ 21,500     $ 18,797
                   including interest of 12.83%
 2005        6     Monthly payments from $19,396 to $63,548,         13,913       18,313
                   including interest from 10.50% to 13.04%
 2006       11     Monthly payments from $1,355 to $250,000,         46,429       45,248
                   including interest from 1.98% to 12.93%
 2007        3     Monthly payments from $50,899 to $130,182,        13,034       20,659
                   including interest from 10.78% to 15.21%
 2008        2     Monthly payments from $2,385 to $95,917,           7,210        7,393
                   including interest from 11.50% to 15.61%
 2009        7     Monthly payments from $1,466 to $37,487,          32,149       25,410
                   including interest from 6.50% to 10.90%
 2012        1     Monthly payments of $114,565,                     12,700       12,700
                   including interest of 10.825%
 2013        1     Monthly payments of $17,352,                         185        1,711
                   including interest of 12.17%
 2015        1     Monthly payments of $2,061,                          154          275
                   including interest of 9.00%
 2016        2     Monthly payments from $6,573 to $28,761,           4,045        4,240
                   including interest of 10.00%
 2017        1     Monthly payments of $23,269,                         907        3,443
                   including interest of 8.11%
 2018        1     Monthly payments of $55,077,                       7,000        5,950
                   including interest of 10.65%
                                                                   --------     --------
                   Totals.......................................   $159,226     $164,139
                                                                   ========     ========
</Table>

                                        52
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

3. REAL PROPERTY OWNED

     The  following table summarizes certain information about our real property
owned as of December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                             NUMBER OF                BUILDING &      TOTAL      ACCUMULATED
                             FACILITIES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   INVESTMENT   DEPRECIATION
                             ----------   --------   ------------   ----------   ------------
<S>                          <C>          <C>        <C>            <C>          <C>
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES:
Arizona....................       6       $  3,684    $   41,900    $   45,584     $  2,243
California.................       8          8,420        53,553        61,973        3,131
Colorado...................       1            940         3,721         4,661          184
Connecticut................       5          6,040        40,578        46,618        3,546
Florida....................      18          8,103        86,352        94,455       13,232
Georgia....................       5          4,336        28,446        32,782        4,853
Idaho......................       4          1,675        29,615        31,290          524
Illinois...................       1            670         6,780         7,450          351
Indiana....................      13          2,891        61,732        64,623        9,228
Kentucky...................       1            490         7,610         8,100          102
Louisiana..................       1          1,100        10,161        11,261        1,948
Maryland...................       7          4,600        62,950        67,550        7,429
Massachusetts..............       5          4,860        51,421        56,281        1,405
Mississippi................       2          1,080        13,470        14,550          355
Montana....................       2            910         7,282         8,192          802
Nevada.....................       3          2,086        26,235        28,321        4,386
New Jersey.................       3          2,040        16,841        18,881        2,118
New York...................       3          2,390        21,982        24,372          690
North Carolina.............      42         18,133       184,153       202,286        8,273
Ohio.......................       8          3,214        35,208        38,422        4,360
Oklahoma...................      16          1,928        24,346        26,274        5,044
Oregon.....................       4          1,767        16,249        18,016        1,422
Pennsylvania...............       4          1,951        17,313        19,264        2,258
South Carolina.............       8          4,972        37,919        42,891        2,179
Tennessee..................       6          2,376        17,336        19,712        1,755
Texas......................      16          9,046        61,664        70,710        8,993
Utah.......................       1          1,060         6,142         7,202          487
Virginia...................       5          2,624        27,378        30,002          745
Washington.................       6          5,000        27,676        32,676          844
Wisconsin..................       1            420         4,006         4,426          210
Construction in progress...       2                                     14,701
                                ---       --------    ----------    ----------     --------
  Total Assisted Living
     Facilities............     207        108,806     1,030,019     1,153,526       93,097
</Table>

                                        53
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                             NUMBER OF                BUILDING &      TOTAL      ACCUMULATED
                             FACILITIES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   INVESTMENT   DEPRECIATION
                             ----------   --------   ------------   ----------   ------------
<S>                          <C>          <C>        <C>            <C>          <C>
SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES:
Alabama....................       7       $  2,910    $   37,909    $   40,819     $    583
Arizona....................       1            180         3,989         4,169          743
California.................       1          1,460         3,942         5,402        1,046
Colorado...................       1            370         6,051         6,421        1,103
Florida....................       9          4,382        59,034        63,416       10,002
Georgia....................       2          2,190         9,392        11,582          156
Idaho......................       3          2,010        20,662        22,672        3,486
Illinois...................       4          1,110        22,346        23,456        2,247
Kentucky...................       3          1,160        15,515        16,675          700
Maryland...................       1            390         4,010         4,400          121
Massachusetts..............      15         11,438       126,568       138,006       12,257
Mississippi................       8          1,385        29,691        31,076          612
Missouri...................       3          1,247        23,133        24,380        1,020
Ohio.......................       5          4,286        62,592        66,878        5,000
Oklahoma...................       1            470         5,673         6,143          981
Oregon.....................       1            300         5,316         5,616          935
Pennsylvania...............       4            869        19,174        20,043        3,906
Tennessee..................      15          6,480        82,250        88,730        4,323
Texas......................       4          2,000        25,948        27,948          951
Virginia...................       2          1,891         7,312         9,203          261
                                ---       --------    ----------    ----------     --------
  Total Skilled Nursing
     Facilities............      90         46,528       570,507       617,035       50,433
SPECIALTY CARE FACILITIES:
Florida....................       1            979                         979
Illinois...................       1          3,650        12,960        16,610          233
Massachusetts..............       4          3,425        71,937        75,362        8,554
Ohio.......................       1          3,020        27,445        30,465          123
                                ---       --------    ----------    ----------     --------
  Total Specialty Care
     Facilities............       7         11,074       112,342       123,416        8,910
                                ---       --------    ----------    ----------     --------
Total Real Property
  Owned....................     304       $166,408    $1,712,868    $1,893,977     $152,440
                                ===       ========    ==========    ==========     ========
</Table>

     At December  31,  2003,  future minimum  lease  payments  receivable  under
operating leases are as follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<S>                                                            <C>
2004........................................................   $  188,459
2005........................................................      193,010
2006........................................................      197,716
2007........................................................      202,742
2008........................................................      207,804
Thereafter..................................................    1,748,369
                                                               ----------
Totals......................................................   $2,738,100
                                                               ==========
</Table>

                                        54
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     We purchased $12,433,000, $33,972,000 and $13,683,000 of real property that
had  previously been financed by the Company  with loans in 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. We converted $36,794,000  of completed construction projects  into
operating  lease properties in  2003. We acquired  properties which included the
assumption of mortgages totaling $101,243,000  and $2,248,000 in 2003 and  2002,
respectively.  These non-cash activities are  appropriately not reflected in the
accompanying statements of cash flows.

     During the  year  ended December  31,  2003,  it was  determined  that  the
projected undiscounted cash flows from a property did not exceed its related net
book  value and an  impairment charge of  $2,792,000 was recorded  to reduce the
property to its estimated fair market value. The estimated fair market value  of
the  property was determined by an  independent appraisal. During the year ended
December 31, 2002, it was determined that the projected undiscounted cash  flows
from  three  properties  did  not  exceed  their  related  net  book  values and
impairment charges of $2,298,000 were recorded to reduce the properties to their
estimated fair market values. The estimated fair market values of the properties
were determined by offers to purchase  received from third parties or  estimated
net sales proceeds.

4. CONCENTRATION OF RISK

     As  of December 31, 2003, long-term  care facilities, which include skilled
nursing and assisted living facilities, comprised 92% (92% at December 31, 2002)
of our real  estate investments and  were located in  33 states. Investments  in
assisted  living facilities comprised 60% (57% at December 31, 2002) of our real
estate investments. The following table summarizes certain information about our
operator concentration as of December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           NUMBER OF        TOTAL        PERCENT OF
                                                           FACILITIES   INVESTMENT(1)   INVESTMENT(2)
                                                           ----------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>             <C>
Concentration by investment:
  Emeritus Corporation...................................      30        $  232,018          12%
  Southern Assisted Living, Inc..........................      46           211,633          11%
  Commonwealth Communities L.L.C.........................      14           200,127          10%
  Home Quality Management, Inc...........................      25           143,113           7%
  Life Care Centers of America, Inc......................      17           120,810           6%
  Remaining Operators (42)...............................     196         1,095,765          54%
                                                              ---        ----------         ----
  Totals.................................................     328        $2,003,466         100%
                                                              ===        ==========         ====
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           NUMBER OF        TOTAL        PERCENT OF
                                                           FACILITIES    REVENUES(3)     REVENUE(4)
                                                           ----------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>             <C>
Concentration by revenue:
  Commonwealth Communities L.L.C.........................      14        $   26,592          13%
  Home Quality Management, Inc...........................      25            14,886           7%
  Life Care Centers of America, Inc......................      17            14,525           7%
  Merrill Gardens L.L.C..................................      12            14,397           7%
  Alterra Healthcare Corporation.........................      45            14,293           7%
  Remaining Operators (42)...............................     215           122,221          59%
                                                              ---        ----------         ----
  Totals.................................................     328        $  206,914         100%
                                                              ===        ==========         ====
</Table>

---------------

(1) Investments include real  estate investments and  credit enhancements  which
    amounted to $2,000,271,000 and $3,195,000, respectively.

(2) Investments  with top five  operators comprised 45%  of total investments at
    December 31, 2002.

                                        55
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

(3) Revenues  include gross  revenues and revenues  from discontinued operations
    for the year ended December 31, 2003.

(4) Revenues from  top five  operators were  43%  and 40%  for the  years  ended
    December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

5. ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

     The following is a summary of the allowance for loan losses (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                    ------------------------
                                                     2003     2002     2001
                                                    ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                 <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance at beginning of year......................  $4,955   $6,861   $5,861
Provision for loan losses.........................   2,870    1,000    1,000
Charge-offs.......................................           (2,906)
                                                    ------   ------   ------
Balance at end of year............................  $7,825   $4,955   $6,861
                                                    ======   ======   ======
</Table>

6. BORROWINGS UNDER LINES OF CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS AND RELATED ITEMS

     We  have an unsecured  credit arrangement with a  consortium of eight banks
providing for a revolving line of  credit ("revolving credit") in the amount  of
$310,000,000,  which  expires  on May  15,  2006. The  agreement  specifies that
borrowings under the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods
no longer than three months on either the agent bank's prime rate of interest or
1.3% over LIBOR interest rate,  at our option (2.43%  at December 31, 2003).  In
addition,  we pay  a commitment  fee based on  an annual  rate of  0.325% and an
annual agent's  fee  of  $50,000.  Principal  is  due  upon  expiration  of  the
agreement.  We have another unsecured line of credit arrangement with a bank for
a total of $30,000,000, which expires  May 31, 2004. Borrowings under this  line
of credit are subject to interest at either the bank's prime rate of interest or
2.00%  over LIBOR interest rate, at our  option (4.00% at December 31, 2003) and
are due on demand.

     The  following  information  relates  to  aggregate  borrowings  under  the
unsecured lines of credit arrangements (in thousands, except percentages):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                               ------------------------------
                                                 2003       2002       2001
                                               --------   --------   --------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>        <C>
Balance outstanding at December 31...........  $      0   $109,500   $      0
Maximum amount outstanding at any month
  end........................................   156,900    130,000    140,800
Average amount outstanding (total of daily
  principal balances divided by days in
  year)......................................    64,420     69,180     66,217
Weighted average interest rate (actual
  interest expense divided by average
  borrowings outstanding)....................     4.46%      4.58%      7.67%
</Table>

7. SENIOR UNSECURED NOTES AND SECURED DEBT

     We  have $865,000,000 of senior unsecured  notes with annual interest rates
ranging from 6.00% to 8.17%.

     We have 30 mortgage loans  totaling $148,184,000, collateralized by  health
care  facilities with  annual interest rates  ranging from 6.18%  to 12.00%. The
carrying values  of  the health  care  properties securing  the  mortgage  loans
totaled $219,575,000 at December 31, 2003.

     We  had a $60,000,000 secured line of  credit with interest at the lender's
prime rate or  2.0% over LIBOR,  at our option,  with a floor  of 7.0% (7.0%  at
December  31, 2003) that expired  in February 2004. We  do not intend to replace
this secured facility.

                                        56
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Our  debt agreements contain various  covenants, restrictions and events of
default. Among other  things, these  provisions require us  to maintain  certain
financial  ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability
to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions.

     At December  31, 2003,  the annual  principal payments  on these  long-term
obligations are as follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                         SENIOR        SECURED LINE   MORTGAGE
                                     UNSECURED NOTES    OF CREDIT      LOANS       TOTALS
                                     ---------------   ------------   --------   ----------
<S>                                  <C>               <C>            <C>        <C>
2004...............................     $ 40,000       $          0   $  5,828   $   45,828
2005...............................                                      2,522        2,522
2006...............................       50,000                         2,703       52,703
2007...............................      175,000                        14,709      189,709
2008...............................      100,000                         9,879      109,879
2009...............................                                     12,938       12,938
2010...............................                                      8,948        8,948
Thereafter.........................      500,000                        90,657      590,657
                                        --------       ------------   --------   ----------
Totals.............................     $865,000       $          0   $148,184   $1,013,184
                                        ========       ============   ========   ==========
</Table>

8.  STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS AND RETIREMENT ARRANGEMENTS

     Our  1995 Stock Incentive Plan authorizes  up to 4,024,673 shares of common
stock to be issued at  the discretion of the Board  of Directors. The 1995  Plan
replaced  the 1985  Incentive Stock Option  Plan. The options  granted under the
1985 Plan continue to vest  through 2005 and expire ten  years from the date  of
grant.  Our officers and  key salaried employees are  eligible to participate in
the 1995  Plan.  The  1995  Plan  allows for  the  issuance  of  stock  options,
restricted  stock grants and Dividend Equivalency Rights. There were no Dividend
Equivalency Rights  outstanding  under  the  1995 Plan  for  any  of  the  years
presented.  In addition, we have a  Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, which
authorizes up to 432,000 shares to be issued.

     The following summarizes  the activity  in the  plans for  the years  ended
December 31 (shares in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                           ---------------------------------------------------------
                                                 2003                2002                2001
                                           -----------------   -----------------   -----------------
                                           NUMBER   AVERAGE    NUMBER   AVERAGE    NUMBER   AVERAGE
                                             OF     EXERCISE     OF     EXERCISE     OF     EXERCISE
STOCK OPTIONS                              SHARES    PRICE     SHARES    PRICE     SHARES    PRICE
-------------                              ------   --------   ------   --------   ------   --------
<S>                                        <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>
Options at beginning of year.............  1,606     $21.99    2,387     $21.23    2,003     $20.34
Options granted..........................    340      25.82       40      27.17      515      23.89
Options exercised........................   (420)     20.95     (821)     20.54     (111)     18.63
Options terminated.......................    (23)     22.35                          (20)     17.73
                                           -----     ------    -----     ------    -----     ------
Options at end of year...................  1,503     $23.15    1,606     $21.99    2,387     $21.23
                                           =====     ======    =====     ======    =====     ======
Options exercisable at end of year.......    817     $22.69      838     $21.98    1,161     $21.27
Weighted average fair value of options
  granted during the year................            $ 1.74              $ 2.10              $ 1.43
</Table>

     Vesting periods for options and restricted shares range from six months for
directors  to five years for officers and key salaried employees. Options expire
ten years  from  the  date of  grant.  We  granted 110,000,  8,000,  and  75,750
restricted  shares during 2003,  2002 and 2001,  respectively, including 12,000,
8,000, and

                                        57
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

8,000 shares for directors in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Expense,  which
is  recognized as the shares vest  based on the market value  at the date of the
award, totaled $1,984,000, $1,555,000  and $1,164,000, in  2003, 2002 and  2001,
respectively.

     The  following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 2003 (shares in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  OPTIONS OUTSTANDING                 OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                                      --------------------------------------------   ----------------------
                                                                       WEIGHTED                    WEIGHTED
RANGE OF PER                                           WEIGHTED         AVERAGE                    AVERAGE
SHARE EXERCISE                          NUMBER         AVERAGE         REMAINING       NUMBER      EXERCISE
PRICES                                OUTSTANDING   EXERCISE PRICE   CONTRACT LIFE   EXERCISABLE    PRICE
--------------                        -----------   --------------   -------------   -----------   --------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>              <C>             <C>           <C>
$16-$20.............................       392          $17.60            6.8            265        $17.76
$20-$25.............................       585           24.26            7.2            320         24.13
$25-$30.............................       526           26.04            8.3            232         26.31
                                         -----          ------            ---            ---        ------
Totals..............................     1,503          $23.15            7.5            817        $22.69
                                         =====          ======            ===            ===        ======
</Table>

     We have a 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan and Money Purchase Pension Plan  ("the
Plans") covering all eligible employees. Under the Plans, eligible employees may
make  contributions, and we may make matching contributions and a profit sharing
contribution. Our contributions  to these Plans  totaled $206,000, $184,000  and
$175,000 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     We  have  a  non-qualified  senior executive  retirement  plan  designed to
provide pension benefits  for certain  officers. Pension benefits  are based  on
compensation  and  length  of service  and  the  plan is  unfunded.  The accrued
liability for the plan was $412,000  at December 31, 2003 ($206,000 at  December
31, 2002).

9.  OTHER EQUITY

     Other equity consists of the following (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31
                                                          ---------------------------
                                                           2003      2002      2001
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Accumulated compensation expense related to stock
  options...............................................  $   173   $     0   $     0
Unamortized restricted stock............................   (2,198)   (3,433)   (4,780)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
Totals..................................................  $(2,025)  $(3,433)  $(4,780)
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     Unamortized restricted stock represents the unamortized value of restricted
stock  granted to employees  and directors. Expense, which  is recognized as the
shares vest  based  on the  market  value at  the  date of  the  award,  totaled
$1,182,000,  $1,555,000 and  $1,164,000 for the  years ended  December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

     In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation -- Transition and  Disclosure,
which  we are required  to adopt for  fiscal years beginning  after December 15,
2002, with transition provisions for certain matters. Statement 148 amends  FASB
Statement   No.  123,  Accounting  for   Stock-Based  Compensation,  to  provide
alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based
method  of  accounting  for  stock-based  employee  compensation.  In  addition,
Statement  148 amends  the disclosure requirements  of Statement  123 to require
prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about  the
method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the
method  used  on  reported  results. Effective  January  1,  2003,  we commenced
recognizing  compensation  expense  in  accordance  with  Statement  123  on   a
prospective basis. Accumulated option compensation expense represents the amount
of  amortized compensation costs  related to stock  options awarded to employees
and directors in 2003.

                                        58
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The  following  table illustrates  the effect  on  net income  available to
common stockholders if we had applied  the fair value recognition provisions  of
Statement  123 to  stock-based compensation for  options granted  since 1995 but
prior to adoption at January 1, 2003 (in thousands, except per share data):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                     2003      2002      2001
                                                    -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>       <C>
Numerator:
Net income available to common stockholders -- as
  reported........................................  $70,732   $55,191   $47,044
Deduct: Additional stock-based employee
  compensation expense determined under fair value
  based method for all awards.....................      405       539       465
                                                    -------   -------   -------
Net income available to common stockholders -- pro
  forma...........................................  $70,327   $54,652   $46,579
                                                    =======   =======   =======
Denominator:
Basic weighted average shares -- as reported and
  pro forma.......................................   43,572    36,702    30,534
Effect of dilutive securities:
  Employee stock options -- pro forma.............      388       394       178
  Non-vested restricted shares....................      202       162       255
                                                    -------   -------   -------
Dilutive potential common shares..................      590       556       433
                                                    -------   -------   -------
Diluted weighted average shares -- pro forma......   44,162    37,258    30,967
                                                    =======   =======   =======
Net income available to common stockholders per
  share -- as reported
     Basic........................................  $  1.62   $  1.50   $  1.54
     Diluted......................................     1.60      1.48      1.52
Net income available to common stockholders per
  share -- pro forma
     Basic........................................     1.61      1.49      1.53
     Diluted......................................     1.59      1.47      1.50
</Table>

     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
a  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with  the  following  weighted-average
assumptions:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                    2003    2002    2001
                                                    -----   -----   -----
<S>                                                 <C>     <C>     <C>
Dividend yield....................................    9.1%    8.0%    9.3%
Expected volatility...............................   25.2%   24.3%   24.3%
Risk-free interest rate...........................   3.73%   3.44%   3.44%
Expected life (in years)..........................      7       7       7
Weighted-average fair value.......................  $1.74   $2.10   $1.43
</Table>

10.  PREFERRED STOCK

     In   January  1999,  we  sold  3,000,000  shares  of  Series  C  Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock. These shares had a liquidation value of $25.00  per
share  and paid dividends equivalent  to the greater of  (i) the annual dividend
rate of $2.25 per  share (a quarterly  dividend rate of  $0.5625 per share);  or
(ii)  the quarterly dividend  then payable per  common share on  an as converted
basis. The preferred shares were convertible  into common stock at a  conversion
price  of $25.625  per share. We  had the  right to redeem  the preferred shares
after five years. During  the year ended  December 31, 2003,  the holder of  our
Series C Cumulative Convertible

                                        59
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Preferred  Stock  converted 2,100,000  shares  into 2,049,000  shares  of common
stock. At December 31, 2003, the Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock
has been fully converted into common stock.

     In July 2003,  we closed a  public offering of  4,000,000 shares of  7.875%
Series  D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation
value of  $25.00 per  share. Dividends  are payable  quarterly in  arrears.  The
preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at par plus
accrued  and unpaid dividends thereon to the redemption date on or after July 9,
2008. A portion  of the  proceeds from  this offering  were used  to redeem  all
3,000,000 shares of our 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on
July 15, 2003, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid
dividends.

     In  September 2003,  we issued 1,060,000  shares of 6%  Series E Cumulative
Convertible and  Redeemable  Preferred Stock  as  partial consideration  for  an
acquisition  of assets by the Company, with the shares valued at $26,500,000 for
such purposes. The  shares were  issued to  Southern Assisted  Living, Inc.  and
certain  of its stockholders  without registration in  reliance upon the federal
statutory exemption of Section 4(2) of  the Securities Act of 1933, as  amended.
The  shares have a liquidation value of  $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable
quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may  be
redeemed  by  us  at  par  plus accrued  and  unpaid  dividends  thereon  to the
redemption  date  on  or  after  August  15,  2008.  The  preferred  shares  are
convertible  into common stock at a conversion  price of $32.66 per share at any
time. During the three  months ended December 31,  2003, certain holders of  our
Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock converted 229,600
shares  into  175,700 shares  of common  stock,  leaving 830,400  outstanding at
December 31, 2003.

11.  INCOME TAXES AND DISTRIBUTIONS

     To qualify  as  a real  estate  investment  trust for  federal  income  tax
purposes,  90%  of taxable  income  (including 100%  of  capital gains)  must be
distributed  to  stockholders.  Real  estate  investment  trusts  that  do   not
distribute  a certain amount of current year  taxable income in the current year
are also subject  to a  4% federal  excise tax.  The principal  reasons for  the
difference  between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and
financial statement  purposes  are the  recognition  of straight-line  rent  for
reporting  purposes, different  useful lives  and depreciation  methods for real
property and the  provision for loan  losses for reporting  purposes versus  bad
debt  expense for tax purposes. Cash  distributions paid to common stockholders,
for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                    ------------------------
                                                     2003     2002     2001
                                                    ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                 <C>      <C>      <C>
Per Share:
  Ordinary income.................................  $1.365   $1.655   $1.673
  Return of capital...............................   0.896    0.671    0.648
  Capital gains...................................   0.079    0.014    0.019
                                                    ------   ------   ------
  Totals..........................................  $2.340   $2.340   $2.340
                                                    ======   ======   ======
</Table>

12.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     We have guaranteed the payment of industrial revenue bonds for one assisted
living facility,  in  the  event  that  the  present  owner  defaults  upon  its
obligations.  In consideration for this guaranty,  we receive and recognize fees
annually related to this arrangement.  This guaranty expires upon the  repayment
of  the industrial revenue bonds which currently mature in 2009. At December 31,
2003, we were contingently liable for $3,195,000 under this guaranty.

     At December 31,  2003, we  had operating lease  obligations of  $10,758,000
relating to Company office space and six assisted living facilities.

                                        60
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     At  December  31,  2003,  we  had  outstanding  construction  financings of
$14,865,000 ($14,701,000  for leased  properties and  $164,000 for  construction
loans)  and were  committed to  providing additional  financing of approximately
$15,501,000 to complete construction.  At December 31,  2003, we had  contingent
purchase obligations totaling $62,443,000. These contingent purchase obligations
primarily relate to deferred acquisition fundings. Deferred acquisition fundings
are  contingent upon an  operator satisfying certain  conditions such as payment
coverage and  value tests.  Rents  received from  the  tenant are  increased  to
reflect the additional investment in the property.

     On  November 20, 2002,  Doctors Community Health  Care Corporation and five
subsidiaries ("Doctors")  filed  for Chapter  11  bankruptcy protection  in  the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia. Doctors stated that
its  bankruptcy filing was  due to the bankruptcy  of National Century Financial
Enterprises and  affiliates, which  halted payments  to health  care  providers,
including Doctors. We have provided mortgage financing to Doctors in the form of
a loan secured by the Pacifica Hospital of the Valley in Sun Valley, CA, and the
other  assets  of the  Pacifica of  the  Valley Corporation,  one of  the debtor
subsidiaries. The outstanding  principal balance of  the loan was  approximately
$18,797,000  on  December  31,  2003. Pursuant  to  procedures  approved  by the
bankruptcy court, the assets of Doctors were  the subject of an auction held  on
December  10 through December 16,  2003. At the conclusion  of that auction, the
debtors' independent director  declared certain members  of Doctors'  management
the  winning bidder. Their bid contemplates  a reorganization of Doctors and its
subsidiaries with  new  equity and  debt  capitalization. The  results  of  this
auction  are subject to bankruptcy court approval, which the debtors have stated
they intend to  seek in connection  with a  hearing on the  confirmation of  the
debtors'  proposed plan of reorganization. Doctors anticipates that this hearing
should occur in March or  April 2004. Doctors did  not make an interest  payment
for  the  twelve months  ended  December 31,  2003.  We will  not  recognize any
interest on the loan until payment is received.

     Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra") filed for Chapter 11  bankruptcy
protection  on January 23,  2003 in the  United States Bankruptcy  Court for the
District of Delaware. We have a master lease with Alterra for 45 assisted living
facilities with a depreciated book value of $103,293,000 at December 31, 2003. A
joint venture between Fortress Investment Group LLC and Emeritus Corporation was
the winning bidder at a bankruptcy auction held on July 17, 2003. The bankruptcy
court confirmed  Alterra's  plan of  reorganization  on November  26,  2003.  In
connection with confirmation of Alterra's plan, our master lease was assumed and
the  acquisition of Alterra by the Fortress-Emeritus joint venture was approved.
This transaction  has  closed.  Alterra  remained  current  on  rental  payments
throughout the bankruptcy process.

13.  STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

     Under  the terms  of a  stockholder rights  plan approved  by our  Board of
Directors in July 1994, a preferred share right is attached to and automatically
trades with each outstanding share of common stock.

     The rights, which are redeemable, will become exercisable only in the event
that any person or group becomes a holder of 15% or more of our common stock, or
commences a tender  or exchange offer,  which, if consummated,  would result  in
that  person or group owning  at least 15% of our  common stock. Once the rights
become  exercisable,  they  entitle  all  other  stockholders  to  purchase  one
one-thousandth  of a  share of  a new  series of  junior participating preferred
stock for an exercise price of $48.00. The rights will expire on August 5, 2004,
unless exchanged earlier or redeemed  earlier by us for  $0.01 per right at  any
time before public disclosure that a 15% position has been acquired.

                                        61
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

14.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The  following  table  sets  forth the  computation  of  basic  and diluted
earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                     2003      2002      2001
                                                    -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>       <C>
Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per
  share -- net income available to common
  stockholders....................................  $70,732   $55,191   $47,044
                                                    =======   =======   =======
Denominator for basic earnings per
  share -- weighted average shares................   43,572    36,702    30,534
Effect of dilutive securities:
  Employee stock options..........................      427       437       238
  Non-vested restricted shares....................      202       162       255
                                                    -------   -------   -------
Dilutive potential common shares..................      629       599       493
                                                    -------   -------   -------
Denominator for diluted earnings per
  share -- adjusted weighted average shares.......   44,201    37,301    31,027
                                                    =======   =======   =======
Basic earnings per share..........................  $  1.62   $  1.50   $  1.54
                                                    =======   =======   =======
Diluted earnings per share........................  $  1.60   $  1.48   $  1.52
                                                    =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the dilutive effect  of
0,  10,000 and 1,301,000 options for  2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, because
the exercise  price was  greater than  the average  market price.  The Series  C
Cumulative  Convertible Preferred Stock and  Series E Cumulative Convertible and
Redeemable Preferred Stock were not included  in this calculation as the  effect
of the conversions were anti-dilutive.

15.  DISCLOSURE ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The  following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments  for which it is practicable to  estimate
that value.

     Mortgage  Loans  Receivable  --  The  fair  value  of  all  mortgage  loans
receivable is estimated by discounting the  future cash flows using the  current
rates  at which  similar loans  would be made  to borrowers  with similar credit
ratings and for the same remaining maturities.

     Working Capital Loans,  Construction Loans and  Subdebt Investments --  The
carrying  amount is a  reasonable estimate of  fair value based  on the interest
rates received, which approximates current market rates.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents -- The carrying amount approximates fair value.

     Equity Investments -- Equity investments are recorded at their fair  market
value.

     Borrowings  Under  Lines of  Credit Arrangements  and  Secured Debt  -- The
carrying  amount  of  the  lines   of  credit  arrangements  and  secured   debt
approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

     Senior  Unsecured Notes  -- The  fair value  of the  senior unsecured notes
payable was estimated  by discounting the  future cash flows  using the  current
borrowing rate available to the Company for similar debt.

     Mortgage  Loans Payable -- Mortgage loans  payable is a reasonable estimate
of fair  value based  on the  interest rates  paid, which  approximates  current
market rates.

                                        62
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments
are as follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                      DECEMBER 31, 2003       December 31, 2002
                                    ---------------------   ---------------------
                                    CARRYING                Carrying
                                     AMOUNT    FAIR VALUE    Amount    Fair Value
                                    --------   ----------   --------   ----------
<S>                                 <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
Financial Assets:
  Mortgage loans receivable.......  $164,139   $  167,610   $179,761    $192,037
  Working capital loans...........    49,177       49,177     28,255      28,255
  Construction loans..............       164          164
  Subdebt investments.............    45,254       45,254     14,578      14,578
  Cash and cash equivalents.......   124,496      124,496      9,550       9,550
  Equity investments..............         1            1         12          12
Financial Liabilities:
  Borrowings under lines of credit
     arrangements.................  $      0   $        0   $109,500    $109,500
  Senior unsecured notes..........   865,000    1,111,712    515,000     418,179
  Secured debt....................         0            0      4,000       4,000
  Mortgage loans payable..........   148,184      148,184     47,831      47,831
</Table>

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     In  August 2001, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment  or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  which
is  effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted the
standard effective January 1, 2002.

     During the year ended December 31,  2003, we sold properties with  carrying
values  of $61,316,000 for net gains of $4,139,000. In accordance with Statement
No. 144, we  have reclassified  the income  and expenses  attributable to  these
properties  to  discontinued  operations.  Expenses  include  an  allocation  of
interest expense based on property carrying values and our weighted average cost
of debt. The following illustrates the reclassification impact of Statement  No.
144  as a  result of classifying  the properties as  discontinued operations (in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                    --------------------------
                                                     2003     2002      2001
                                                    ------   -------   -------
<S>                                                 <C>      <C>       <C>
Revenues:
  Operating lease rents...........................  $5,883   $11,953   $14,059
Expenses:
     Interest expense.............................   1,233     2,669     3,618
     Provision for depreciation...................   1,792     3,966     4,422
                                                    ------   -------   -------
Income from discontinued operation, net...........  $2,858   $ 5,318   $ 6,019
                                                    ======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                        63
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

17.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     During  December 2003 and January 2004, we expanded our unsecured revolving
line of credit from  $225,000,000 to $310,000,000. The  existing bank group,  in
conjunction  with two new  participants, First Tennessee  Bank, N.A. and LaSalle
Bank National  Association, provided  the additional  capacity. See  Note 6  for
additional information regarding this arrangement.

18.  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

     The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations
for  the years ended December 31, 2003  and 2002 (in thousands, except per share
data):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003
                                                         -----------------------------------------------------
                                                             1ST           2ND           3RD           4TH
                                                           QUARTER       QUARTER       QUARTER     QUARTER(2)
                                                         -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues -- as reported................................    $46,292       $47,856       $49,975       $61,240
Discontinued operations................................     (2,155)       (2,164)          (13)
                                                           -------       -------       -------       -------
Revenues -- as adjusted(1).............................     44,137        45,692        49,962        61,240
Net income available to common
  stockholders.........................................     16,451        16,744        20,601        16,935
Net income available to common stockholders per share:
     Basic.............................................       0.41          0.41          0.47          0.34
     Diluted...........................................       0.41          0.41          0.46          0.34
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31, 2002
                                                         -----------------------------------------------------
                                                             1st           2nd           3rd           4th
                                                           Quarter       Quarter       Quarter     Quarter(3)
                                                         -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues -- as reported................................    $37,395       $40,638       $42,373       $45,424
Discontinued operations................................     (3,402)       (3,219)       (2,238)       (2,044)
                                                           -------       -------       -------       -------
Revenues -- as adjusted(1).............................     33,993        37,419        40,135        43,380
Net income available to common
  stockholders.........................................     12,511        13,490        16,885        12,303
Net income available to common stockholders per share:
     Basic.............................................       0.38          0.38          0.44          0.31
     Diluted...........................................       0.37          0.37          0.43          0.31
</Table>

---------------

(1) In accordance with FASB Statement No.  144, we have reclassified the  income
    attributable  to  the  properties  sold subsequent  to  January  1,  2002 to
    discontinued operations. See Note 16.

(2) The decrease in net income and  amounts per share is primarily  attributable
    to  impairment of assets recorded in fourth  quarter 2003 and a common stock
    issuance completed in third quarter 2003.

(3) The decrease in net income and  amounts per share is primarily  attributable
    to  impairment of assets, losses  on sales of properties  and a common stock
    issuance recorded in fourth quarter 2002.

                                        64
<PAGE>

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     An   evaluation  was  carried  out  under  the  supervision  and  with  the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial  Officer,  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  disclosure  controls   and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as  amended) as of the end  of the period covered by  this report. Based on that
evaluation, the Chief  Executive Officer and  Chief Financial Officer  concluded
that  the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered by this report. No change in our internal control over  financial
reporting  (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended) occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by
this report  that materially  affected, or  is reasonably  likely to  materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The  information required by this Item  is incorporated herein by reference
to the information under the headings "Election of Three Directors,"  "Executive
Officers  of the  Company" and  "Board and  Committees" in  our definitive proxy
statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 16, 2004.

     We have adopted a  Code of Business  Conduct & Ethics  that applies to  our
directors,  officers and employees. The code is  posted on our Internet Web site
at www.hcreit.com and is available from the Company upon written request to  the
Vice  President and  Corporate Secretary, Health  Care REIT,  Inc., One SeaGate,
Suite 1500,  P.O. Box  1475,  Toledo, Ohio  43603-1475.  Any amendments  to,  or
waivers  from, the code  that relate to  any officer or  director of the Company
will be promptly disclosed on our Internet Web site at www.hcreit.com.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this  Item is incorporated herein by  reference
to  the information  under the  heading "Remuneration"  in our  definitive proxy
statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 16, 2004.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The information required by this  Item is incorporated herein by  reference
to  the  information under  the headings  "Security  Ownership of  Directors and
Management," "Equity Compensation Plan Information" and "Employment  Agreements"
in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior
to April 16, 2004.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The  information required by this Item  is incorporated herein by reference
to  the  information  under  the  heading  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related
Transactions"  in our definitive  proxy statement, which will  be filed with the
Commission prior to April 16, 2004.

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

     The information required by this  Item is incorporated herein by  reference
to  the  information  under  the heading  "Ratification  of  the  Appointment of
Independent Auditors" in  our definitive  proxy statement, which  will be  filed
with the Commission prior to April 16, 2004.

                                        65
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)1.  Our Consolidated Financial Statements are  included in Part II, Item
8:

<Table>
<S>                                                            <C>
Report of Independent Auditors..............................    43
Consolidated Balance Sheets -- December 31, 2003 and 2002...    44
Consolidated Statements of Income -- Years ended December
  31, 2003, 2002 and 2001...................................    45
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity -- Years
  ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001....................    46
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- Years ended
  December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001..........................    47
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................    48
</Table>

        2. The  following Financial  Statement Schedules  are included  in  Item
15(d):

          III -- Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

          IV -- Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

     All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is  made  in  the  applicable
accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required
under the  related instructions  or  are inapplicable  and therefore  have  been
omitted.

        3. Exhibit Index:

<Table>
         <C>     <S>
          3.1    Second  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
                 (filed with the Commission as  Exhibit 3.1 to the  Company's
                 Form  10-K filed March 20,  2000, and incorporated herein by
                 reference thereto).
          3.2    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Junior
                 Participating Preferred  Stock,  Series A,  of  the  Company
                 (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
                 Form 10-K filed March 20,  2000, and incorporated herein  by
                 reference thereto).
          3.3    Certificate  of  Designations,  Preferences  and  Rights  of
                 Series C  Cumulative  Convertible  Preferred  Stock  of  the
                 Company  (filed with  the Commission  as Exhibit  3.1 to the
                 Company's Form 10-K filed  March 20, 2000, and  incorporated
                 herein by reference thereto).
          3.4    Certificate  of Amendment of  Second Restated Certificate of
                 Incorporation of the Company  (filed with the Commission  as
                 Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000,
                 and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          3.5    Certificate  of Amendment of  Second Restated Certificate of
                 Incorporation of the Company  (filed with the Commission  as
                 Exhibit  3.1 to the Company's Form  8-K filed June 13, 2003,
                 and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          3.6    Certificate of  Designation of  7 7/8%  Series D  Cumulative
                 Redeemable  Preferred Stock  of the Company  (filed with the
                 Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company's Form 8-A/A  filed
                 July 8, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          3.7    Certificate   of  Designation  of  6%  Series  E  Cumulative
                 Convertible and Redeemable  Preferred Stock  of the  Company
                 (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
                 Form 8-K filed October 1,  2003, and incorporated herein  by
                 reference thereto).
          3.8    Amended  and Restated By-Laws of the Company (filed with the
                 Commission as Exhibit  3.1 to the  Company's Form 8-K  filed
                 October  24,  1997,  and  incorporated  herein  by reference
                 thereto).
          4.1    The Company, by signing this  Report, agrees to furnish  the
                 Securities  and Exchange Commission upon  its request a copy
                 of any  instrument that  defines the  rights of  holders  of
                 long-term  debt of the Company and authorizes a total amount
                 of securities not in  excess of 10% of  the total assets  of
                 the Company.
</Table>

                                        66
<PAGE>
<Table>
         <C>     <S>
          4.2    Series  A  Junior  Participating  Preferred  Share  Purchase
                 Rights Agreement, dated as of July 19, 1994 (filed with  the
                 Commission  as  Exhibit 2  to the  Company's Form  8-A filed
                 August 3, 1994 (File No. 1-8923), and incorporated herein by
                 reference thereto).
          4.3    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997 between the Company and
                 Fifth Third Bank (filed with  the Commission as Exhibit  4.1
                 to  the  Company's  Form  8-K  filed  April  21,  1997,  and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.4    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 17, 1997, to
                 Indenture dated as  of April 17,  1997, between the  Company
                 and  Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as Exhibit
                 4.2 to  the Company's  Form 8-K  filed April  21, 1997,  and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.5    Second  Supplemental Indenture, dated as  of March 13, 1998,
                 to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company
                 and Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit
                 4.2  to the  Company's Form  8-K filed  March 11,  1998, and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.6    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 18, 1999, to
                 Indenture dated as  of April 17,  1997, between the  Company
                 and  Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as Exhibit
                 4.2 to  the Company's  Form 8-K  filed March  17, 1999,  and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.7    Fourth  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 10, 2001,
                 to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company
                 and Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit
                 4.2  to the  Company's Form  8-K filed  August 9,  2001, and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.8    Supplemental Indenture No. 5,  dated September 10, 2003,  to
                 Indenture  dated as of  April 17, 1997,  between the Company
                 and Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit
                 4.1  to the Company's Form 8-K filed September 24, 2003, and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.9    Amendment No. 1, dated  September 16, 2003, to  Supplemental
                 Indenture  No.  5, dated  September  10, 2003,  to Indenture
                 dated as of April  17, 1997, between  the Company and  Fifth
                 Third  Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the
                 Company's  Form   8-K   filed  September   24,   2003,   and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.10   Indenture  for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September
                 6, 2002, between  the Company  and Fifth  Third Bank  (filed
                 with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K
                 filed   September  9,  2002,   and  incorporated  herein  by
                 reference thereto).
          4.11   Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002,
                 to  Indenture  for  Senior  Debt  Securities,  dated  as  of
                 September  6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank
                 (filed with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.2 to the  Company's
                 Form 8-K filed September 9, 2002, and incorporated herein by
                 reference thereto).
          4.12   Amendment  No.  1,  dated March  12,  2003,  to Supplemental
                 Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to Indenture
                 for Senior Debt Securities, dated  as of September 6,  2002,
                 between  the Company  and Fifth  Third Bank  (filed with the
                 Commission as Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's Form 8-K  filed
                 March   14,  2003,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference
                 thereto).
          4.13   Supplemental Indenture  No. 2,  dated  as of  September  10,
                 2003,  to Indenture for Senior  Debt Securities, dated as of
                 September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third  Bank
                 (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
                 Form 8-K filed September  24, 2003, and incorporated  herein
                 by reference thereto).
          4.14   Amendment  No. 1, dated September  16, 2003, to Supplemental
                 Indenture  No.  2,  dated  as  of  September  10,  2003,  to
                 Indenture  for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September
                 6, 2002, between  the Company  and Fifth  Third Bank  (filed
                 with the Commission as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Form 8-K
                 filed   September  24,  2003,  and  incorporated  herein  by
                 reference thereto).
</Table>

                                        67
<PAGE>
<Table>
         <C>     <S>
          4.15   Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29,  2003,
                 to  Indenture  for  Senior  Debt  Securities,  dated  as  of
                 September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third  Bank
                 (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
                 Form 8-K filed October 30, 2003, and incorporated herein  by
                 reference thereto).
          4.16   Form  of Indenture  for Senior  Subordinated Debt Securities
                 (filed with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.9 to the  Company's
                 Form  S-3 (File No. 333-73936)  filed November 21, 2001, and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
          4.17   Form of Indenture  for Junior  Subordinated Debt  Securities
                 (filed  with the Commission as Exhibit 4.10 to the Company's
                 Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936)  filed November 21, 2001,  and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
         10.1    Amended  and Restated Loan Agreement, dated August 23, 2002,
                 by and among  Health Care REIT,  Inc. and its  subsidiaries,
                 the  banks signatory thereto,  KeyBank National Association,
                 as administrative agent, Deutsche  Bank Securities Inc.,  as
                 syndication  agent,  and UBS  Warburg LLC,  as documentation
                 agent (filed  with the  Commission as  Exhibit 10.1  to  the
                 Company's  Form 8-K filed August  30, 2002, and incorporated
                 herein by reference thereto).
         10.2    Amendment No. 1, dated May 15, 2003, to Amended and Restated
                 Loan Agreement, dated August 23,  2002, by and among  Health
                 Care  REIT, Inc. and certain  of its subsidiaries, the banks
                 signatory  thereto,   KeyBank   National   Association,   as
                 administrative  agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc., as
                 syndication agent,  and UBS  Warburg LLC,  as  documentation
                 agent  (filed  with the  Commission as  Exhibit 10.1  to the
                 Company's Form  8-K filed  June 13,  2003, and  incorporated
                 herein by reference thereto).
         10.3    Amendment  No.  2, dated  August  26, 2003,  to  Amended and
                 Restated Loan Agreement, dated August 23, 2002, by and among
                 Health Care REIT, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries,  the
                 banks  signatory thereto,  KeyBank National  Association, as
                 administrative agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc.,  as
                 syndication  agent, and UBS Securities LLC, as documentation
                 agent (filed  with the  Commission as  Exhibit 10.1  to  the
                 Company's   Form   8-K   filed  September   24,   2003,  and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
         10.4    Amendment No. 3,  dated December  19, 2003,  to Amended  and
                 Restated Loan Agreement, dated August 23, 2002, by and among
                 Health  Care REIT, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, the
                 banks signatory  thereto, KeyBank  National Association,  as
                 administrative  agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc., as
                 syndication agent, and UBS Securities LLC, as  documentation
                 agent.
         10.5    Supplement,  dated January 30, 2004, to Amended and Restated
                 Loan Agreement, dated August 23,  2002, by and among  Health
                 Care  REIT, Inc. and certain  of its subsidiaries, the banks
                 signatory  thereto,   KeyBank   National   Association,   as
                 administrative  agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc., as
                 syndication agent, and UBS Securities LLC, as  documentation
                 agent.
         10.6    Credit  Agreement by  and among  Health Care  REIT, Inc. and
                 certain subsidiaries, Bank  United and  other lenders  party
                 thereto,  dated  as of  February  24, 1999  (filed  with the
                 Commission as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Form 10-K  filed
                 March   26,  2001,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference
                 thereto).
         10.7    Amendment No. 1, dated April 5, 1999, to Credit Agreement by
                 and among Health Care  REIT, Inc. and certain  subsidiaries,
                 Bank  United and  other lenders  party thereto,  dated as of
                 February 24,  1999 (filed  with  the Commission  as  Exhibit
                 10.10  to the Company's Form 10-K  filed March 26, 2001, and
                 incorporated herein by reference thereto).
         10.8    Credit Agreement by and between  Health Care REIT, Inc.  and
                 Fifth  Third Bank, dated as of  May 31, 2003 (filed with the
                 Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to  the Company's Form 8-K  filed
                 June   13,  2003,  and   incorporated  herein  by  reference
                 thereto).
         10.9    The 1985 Incentive  Stock Option Plan  of Health Care  REIT,
                 Inc.,  and the First  Amendment to the  1985 Incentive Stock
                 Option Plan (filed  with the Commission  as Exhibit 4(b)  to
                 the  Company's Form S-8 (File  No. 33-46561) filed March 20,
                 1992, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
</Table>

                                        68
<PAGE>

<Table>
<S>        <C>
    10.10  Second Amendment to the 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with
           the  Commission as Exhibit 4.3  to the Company's Form S-8  (File No. 333-01237) filed February
           27, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
    10.11  Third Amendment to the 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed  with
           the  Commission as Exhibit 4.4 to  the Company's Form S-8 (File  No. 333-01237) filed with the
           Commission February 27, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
    10.12  The 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Appendix
           II to  the Company's  Proxy  Statement for  the 1995  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders,  filed
           September 29, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
    10.13  First  Amendment to the  1995 Stock Incentive Plan  of Health Care REIT,  Inc. (filed with the
           Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to  the Company's Form S-8 (File  No. 333-40771) filed November  21,
           1997, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
    10.14  Second  Amendment to the 1995 Stock  Incentive Plan of Health Care  REIT, Inc. (filed with the
           Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to  the Company's Form S-8 (File  No. 333-73916) filed November  21,
           2001, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
    10.15  Third Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc.*
    10.16  Stock  Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as
           Exhibit 10.5  to the  Company's Form  10-Q  filed May  13, 1997,  and incorporated  herein  by
           reference thereto).*
    10.17  Second  Amended and Restated Employment  Agreement, effective January 1,  2004, by and between
           Health Care REIT, Inc. and George L. Chapman.*
    10.18  Second Amended and Restated  Employment Agreement, effective January  1, 2004, by and  between
           Health Care REIT, Inc. and Raymond W. Braun.*
    10.19  Second  Amended and Restated Employment  Agreement, effective January 1,  2004, by and between
           Health Care REIT, Inc. and Erin C. Ibele.*
    10.20  Amended and Restated Employment  Agreement, effective January 1,  2004, by and between  Health
           Care REIT, Inc. and Charles J. Herman, Jr.*
    10.21  Employment  Agreement, effective  April 28, 2003,  by and  between Health Care  REIT, Inc. and
           Scott A. Estes.*
    10.22  Health Care REIT, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2001
           (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19 to  the Company's Form 10-K filed March 10,  2003,
           and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
    10.23  Health  Care REIT, Inc.  Executive Loan Program, effective  as of August  1999 (filed with the
           Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 10, 2003, and  incorporated
           herein by reference thereto).*
    14     Code of Business Conduct & Ethics.
    21     Subsidiaries of the Company.
    23     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors.
    24     Powers of Attorney.
    31.1   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
    31.2   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
    32.1   Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.
    32.2   Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.
</Table>

---------------

* Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

                                        69
<PAGE>

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth quarter of 2003 and afterwards:

     Form  8-K filed on October  1, 2003 to announce  that the Company had filed
the Certificate of Designation  for its 6% Series  E Cumulative Convertible  and
Redeemable Preferred Stock.

     Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2003 to announce that the Company had filed a
press  release announcing earnings  results for the  quarter ended September 30,
2003.

     Form 8-K filed on October 30, 2003 to announce that the Company had entered
into an  Underwriting  Agreement  for  an offering  of  $250,000,000  in  senior
unsecured notes.

     Form  8-K filed on November  7, 2003 to announce  that an executive officer
had entered into a second 10b5-1 trading plan effective November 3, 2003.

     Form 8-K filed on November 14,  2003 to announce that an executive  officer
had  modified  a 10b5-1  trading plan  effective November  12, 2003  and another
executive officer had entered into a new 10b5-1 trading plan effective  November
12, 2003.

     Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2004 to announce that the Company had filed a
press  release  announcing  earnings  results for  the  quarter  and  year ended
December 31, 2003.

     (c) Exhibits:

     The exhibits listed in Item 15(a)(3) above are either filed with this  Form
10-K  or  incorporated  by  reference  in accordance  with  Rule  12b-32  of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

     (d) Financial Statement Schedules:

     Financial statement schedules are included in pages 72 through 80.

                                        70
<PAGE>

     Pursuant to  the requirements  of Section  13 or  15(d) of  the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934, the  Company has duly caused this  report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                                  HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                                          By:     /s/ GEORGE L. CHAPMAN
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
                                                         and Director

     Pursuant to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has been  signed below  on March  12, 2004,  by the  following person on
behalf of the Company and in the capacities indicated.

<Table>
<S>                                                    <C>
            /s/ WILLIAM C. BALLARD, JR.*                              /s/ BRUCE G. THOMPSON*
-----------------------------------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
          William C. Ballard, Jr., Director                         Bruce G. Thompson, Director




                 /s/ PIER C. BORRA*                                   /s/ R. SCOTT TRUMBULL*
-----------------------------------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
               Pier C. Borra, Director                              R. Scott Trumbull, Director




                /s/ THOMAS J. DEROSA*                                  /s/ GEORGE L. CHAPMAN
-----------------------------------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
             Thomas J. DeRosa, Director                            George L. Chapman, Chairman,
                                                               Chief Executive Officer and Director
                                                                   (Principal Executive Officer)




               /s/ JEFFREY H. DONAHUE*                                 /s/ RAYMOND W. BRAUN*
-----------------------------------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
            Jeffrey H. Donahue, Director                            Raymond W. Braun, President
                                                                    and Chief Financial Officer
                                                                   (Principal Financial Officer)




                 /s/ PETER J. GRUA*                                  /s/ MICHAEL A. CRABTREE*
-----------------------------------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
               Peter J. Grua, Director                            Michael A. Crabtree, Treasurer
                                                                  (Principal Accounting Officer)




                /s/ SHARON M. OSTER*                            *By:         /s/ GEORGE L. CHAPMAN
-----------------------------------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
              Sharon M. Oster, Director                         George L. Chapman, Attorney-in-Fact
</Table>

                                        71
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III

                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2003
<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                           GROSS AMOUNT AT WHICH CARRIED AT
                                           INITIAL COST TO COMPANY                                 CLOSE OF PERIOD
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)                     -----------------------   COST CAPITALIZED   --------------------------------------
                                                      BUILDINGS &     SUBSEQUENT TO                BUILDINGS &    ACCUMULATED
DESCRIPTION                 ENCUMBRANCES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS     ACQUISITION        LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   DEPRECIATION
-----------                 ------------   --------   ------------   ----------------   --------   ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>                <C>        <C>            <C>
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES:
Alhambra, CA...............   $      0     $    420    $    2,534        $      0       $    420    $    2,534      $    196
Anderson, SC...............                     710         6,290                            710         6,290            45
Asheboro, NC(3)............      3,745          290         5,032              13            290         5,045            36
Asheville, NC..............                     204         3,489                            204         3,489           486
Asheville, NC..............                     280         1,955              26            280         1,981            16
Atlanta, GA................                   2,059        14,914                          2,059        14,914         2,518
Auburn, IN.................                     145         3,511           1,855            145         5,366           850
Auburn, MA(1)..............      4,977        1,050         7,950                          1,050         7,950           107
Austin, TX.................                     880         9,520                            880         9,520         1,330
Avon, IN...................                     170         3,504           2,025            170         5,529           895
Azusa, CA..................                     570         3,141                            570         3,141           254
Baltimore, MD..............                     510         4,515                            510         4,515            97
Bartlesville, OK...........                     100         1,380                            100         1,380           313
Bellingham, WA.............                     300         3,200                            300         3,200            22
Bluffton, SC...............                     700         5,598           3,066            700         8,664           521
Boonville, IN..............                     190         5,510                            190         5,510           258
Bradenton, FL..............                     252         3,298                            252         3,298           763
Bradenton, FL..............                     100         1,700             788            100         2,488           356
Brandon, FL................                     860         7,140                            860         7,140            47
Brick, NJ..................                   1,300         9,394                          1,300         9,394         1,731
Burlington, NC.............                     280         4,297              21            280         4,318            30
Burlington, NC(3)..........      2,923          460         5,501               5            460         5,506            39
Butte, MT..................                     550         3,957              43            550         4,000           333
Canton, OH.................                     300         2,098                            300         2,098           305
Cape Coral, FL.............                     530         3,281                            530         3,281           161
Cary, NC...................                   1,500         4,350             857          1,500         5,207           670
Cedar Hill, TX.............                     171         1,490                            171         1,490           303
Chapel Hill, NC............                     354         2,646             729            354         3,375            98
Chelmsford, MA(2)..........      9,695        1,040        10,960                          1,040        10,960            73
Chickasha, OK..............                      85         1,395                             85         1,395           309
Chubbuck, ID...............                     125         5,375                            125         5,375            38
Claremore, OK..............                     155         1,428                            155         1,428           292
Clarksville, TN............                     330         2,292                            330         2,292           330
Clermont, FL...............                     350         5,232             449            350         5,681           915
Coeur D' Alene, ID.........                     530         7,570                            530         7,570            52
Columbia, SC...............                   2,120         4,860                          2,120         4,860           109
Columbia, TN...............                     341         2,295                            341         2,295           317
Columbus, IN...............                     530         5,170                            530         5,170           245
Concord, NC(3).............      4,993          550         3,921              30            550         3,951            31
Corpus Christi, TX.........                     155         2,935                            155         2,935           566
Corpus Christi, TX.........                     420         4,796                            420         4,796         1,444
Danville, VA...............                     410         3,954              12            410         3,966            29
Dayton, OH.................                     690         2,970                            690         2,970
Desoto, TX.................                     205         1,383                            205         1,383           274
Douglasville, GA...........                      90           217                             90           217             4
Duncan, OK.................                     103         1,347                            103         1,347           291
Durham, NC.................                   1,476        10,659             765          1,476        11,424         2,439
Easley, SC.................                     250         3,266                            250         3,266            70
Eden, NC(3)................      3,248          390         5,039               2            390         5,041            35
Edmond, OK.................                     175         1,564                            175         1,564           331
Elizabeth City, NC.........                     200         2,760           1,971            200         4,731           405
Ellicott City, MD..........                   1,320        13,641           1,621          1,320        15,262         3,122
Encinitas, CA..............                   1,460         7,721                          1,460         7,721           726
Enid, OK...................                      90         1,390                             90         1,390           315
Eugene, OR.................                     600         5,150                            600         5,150           247
Everett, WA................                   1,400         5,476                          1,400         5,476           703
Fairfield, CA..............                   1,460        14,040                          1,460        14,040           702
Fayetteville, NY...........                     410         3,962                            410         3,962           220

<Caption>

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                               YEAR     YEAR
DESCRIPTION                  ACQUIRED   BUILT
-----------                  --------   -----
<S>                          <C>        <C>
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES:
Alhambra, CA...............    1999     1999
Anderson, SC...............    2003     1986
Asheboro, NC(3)............    2003     1998
Asheville, NC..............    1999     1999
Asheville, NC..............    2003     1992
Atlanta, GA................    1997     1999
Auburn, IN.................    1998     1999
Auburn, MA(1)..............    2003     1997
Austin, TX.................    1999     1998
Avon, IN...................    1998     1999
Azusa, CA..................    1998     1988
Baltimore, MD..............    2003     1999
Bartlesville, OK...........    1996     1995
Bellingham, WA.............    2003     1994
Bluffton, SC...............    1999     2000
Boonville, IN..............    2002     2000
Bradenton, FL..............    1996     1995
Bradenton, FL..............    1999     1996
Brandon, FL................    2003     1990
Brick, NJ..................    1999     2000
Burlington, NC.............    2003     2000
Burlington, NC(3)..........    2003     1997
Butte, MT..................    1998     1999
Canton, OH.................    1998     1998
Cape Coral, FL.............    2002     2000
Cary, NC...................    1998     1996
Cedar Hill, TX.............    1997     1996
Chapel Hill, NC............    2002     1997
Chelmsford, MA(2)..........    2003     1997
Chickasha, OK..............    1996     1996
Chubbuck, ID...............    2003     1996
Claremore, OK..............    1996     1996
Clarksville, TN............    1998     1998
Clermont, FL...............    1996     1997
Coeur D' Alene, ID.........    2003     1997
Columbia, SC...............    2003     2000
Columbia, TN...............    1999     1999
Columbus, IN...............    2002     2001
Concord, NC(3).............    2003     1997
Corpus Christi, TX.........    1997     1996
Corpus Christi, TX.........    1996     1997
Danville, VA...............    2003     1998
Dayton, OH.................    2003     1994
Desoto, TX.................    1996     1996
Douglasville, GA...........    2003     1985
Duncan, OK.................    1995     1996
Durham, NC.................    1997     1999
Easley, SC.................    2003     1999
Eden, NC(3)................    2003     1998
Edmond, OK.................    1995     1996
Elizabeth City, NC.........    1998     1999
Ellicott City, MD..........    1997     1999
Encinitas, CA..............    2000     2000
Enid, OK...................    1995     1995
Eugene, OR.................    2002     2000
Everett, WA................    1999     1999
Fairfield, CA..............    2002     1998
Fayetteville, NY...........    2001     1997
</Table>

                                        72
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)
<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                           GROSS AMOUNT AT WHICH CARRIED AT
                                           INITIAL COST TO COMPANY                                 CLOSE OF PERIOD
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)                     -----------------------   COST CAPITALIZED   --------------------------------------
                                                      BUILDINGS &     SUBSEQUENT TO                BUILDINGS &    ACCUMULATED
DESCRIPTION                 ENCUMBRANCES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS     ACQUISITION        LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   DEPRECIATION
-----------                 ------------   --------   ------------   ----------------   --------   ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>                <C>        <C>            <C>
Federal Way, WA............
                              $      0     $    540    $    3,960        $      0       $    540    $    3,960      $     27
Findlay, OH................                     200         1,800                            200         1,800           338
Flagstaff, AZ..............                     540         4,460                            540         4,460            31
Florence, NJ...............                     300         2,978                            300         2,978           145
Forest City, NC(3).........      3,317          320         4,576               3            320         4,579            33
Fort Myers, FL.............                     440         2,560                            440         2,560            18
Fort Worth, TX.............                     210         3,790            (146)            64         3,790           845
Gaffney, SC................                     200         1,892                            200         1,892            46
Gardnerville, NV...........                   1,326        12,549                          1,326        12,549         2,788
Gastonia, NC(3)............      4,414          470         6,129                            470         6,129            43
Gastonia, NC(3)............      2,039          310         3,096                            310         3,096            23
Gastonia, NC(3)............      4,044          400         5,029                            400         5,029            36
Georgetown, TX.............                     200         2,100                            200         2,100           383
Greensboro, NC.............                     330         2,970               5            330         2,975            22
Greensboro, NC.............                     560         5,507                            560         5,507            41
Greenville, NC(3)..........      3,841          290         4,393               2            290         4,395            31
Hagerstown, MD.............                     360         4,640                            360         4,640            34
Haines City, FL............                      80         1,937             162             80         2,099           345
Hamden, CT.................                   1,470         4,530                          1,470         4,530           233
Hamilton, NJ...............                     440         4,469                            440         4,469           242
Hanover, MD................                                 3,000           4,768                        7,768           713
Harlingen, TX..............                      92         2,057                             92         2,057           394
Hattiesburg, MS............                     560         5,790                            560         5,790           303
Henderson, NV..............                     380         9,220              65            380         9,285         1,237
Henderson, NV..............                     380         4,360              41            380         4,401           361
Hendersonville, NC.........                   2,270        11,771             279          2,270        12,050         1,761
Hickory, NC................                     290           987                            290           987            11
High Point, NC.............                     560         4,443               1            560         4,444            33
High Point, NC.............                     370         2,185                            370         2,185            17
High Point, NC(3)..........      2,822          330         3,395               2            330         3,397            25
High Point, NC(3)..........      3,184          430         4,147               2            430         4,149            30
Highlands Ranch, CO........                     940         3,721                            940         3,721           184
Hilton Head Island, SC.....                     510         6,037           2,327            510         8,364           747
Houston, TX................                     550        10,751                            550        10,751         2,295
Houston, TX................                     360         2,640                            360         2,640            80
Houston, TX................                     360         2,640                            360         2,640            79
Houston, TX................                   4,790         7,100                          4,790         7,100            92
Jackson, TN................                     540         1,633              46            540         1,679            42
Jonesboro, GA..............                     460         1,304                            460         1,304            19
Kalispell, MT..............                     360         3,282                            360         3,282           469
Kenner, LA.................                   1,100        10,036             125          1,100        10,161         1,948
Kirkland, WA(2)............      5,307        1,880         4,320                          1,880         4,320            30
Knoxville, TN..............                     314         2,756             131            315         2,886            79
Kokomo, IN.................                     195         3,709           1,251            195         4,960           853
Lake Havasu City, AZ.......                     450         4,223                            450         4,223           523
Lake Havasu City, AZ.......                     110         2,244             136            110         2,380           330
Lake Wales, FL.............                      80         1,939             167             80         2,106           345
Lakeland, FL...............                     520         4,580                            520         4,580            32
Lakewood, NY...............                     470         8,530                            470         8,530            57
LaPorte, IN................                     165         3,674           1,244            165         4,918           846
Laurel, MD.................                   1,060         8,045               2          1,060         8,047           808
Lawton, OK.................                     144         1,456                            144         1,456           311
Lebanon, PA................                     400         3,799              34            400         3,833           474
Lee, MA....................                     290        18,135             606            290        18,741           872
Leesburg, FL...............                      70         1,170             227             70         1,397           270
Leesburg, VA...............                     950         7,553              49            950         7,602           607
Lenoir, NC.................                     190         3,748                            190         3,748            27
Lexington, NC..............                     200         3,900             927            200         4,827           138
Litchfield, CT.............                     660         9,652             106            660         9,758         2,357
Louisville, KY(1)..........      3,700          490         7,610                            490         7,610           102
Lubbock, TX................                     280         6,220                            280         6,220            42

<Caption>

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                               YEAR     YEAR
DESCRIPTION                  ACQUIRED   BUILT
-----------                  --------   -----
<S>                          <C>        <C>

Federal Way, WA............
                               2003     1978
Findlay, OH................    1997     1997
Flagstaff, AZ..............    2003     1999
Florence, NJ...............    2002     1999
Forest City, NC(3).........    2003     1999
Fort Myers, FL.............    2003     1980
Fort Worth, TX.............    1996     1984
Gaffney, SC................    2003     1999
Gardnerville, NV...........    1998     1999
Gastonia, NC(3)............    2003     1998
Gastonia, NC(3)............    2003     1994
Gastonia, NC(3)............    2003     1996
Georgetown, TX.............    1997     1997
Greensboro, NC.............    2003     1996
Greensboro, NC.............    2003     1997
Greenville, NC(3)..........    2003     1998
Hagerstown, MD.............    2003     1999
Haines City, FL............    1999     1999
Hamden, CT.................    2002     1998
Hamilton, NJ...............    2001     1998
Hanover, MD................    2001     1998
Harlingen, TX..............    1997     1989
Hattiesburg, MS............    2002     1998
Henderson, NV..............    1998     1998
Henderson, NV..............    1999     2000
Hendersonville, NC.........    1998     1998
Hickory, NC................    2003     1994
High Point, NC.............    2003     2000
High Point, NC.............    2003     1999
High Point, NC(3)..........    2003     1994
High Point, NC(3)..........    2003     1998
Highlands Ranch, CO........    2002     1999
Hilton Head Island, SC.....    1998     1999
Houston, TX................    1999     1999
Houston, TX................    2002     1999
Houston, TX................    2002     1999
Houston, TX................    2003     1974
Jackson, TN................    2003     1998
Jonesboro, GA..............    2003     1992
Kalispell, MT..............    1998     1998
Kenner, LA.................    1998     2000
Kirkland, WA(2)............    2003     1996
Knoxville, TN..............    2002     1998
Kokomo, IN.................    1997     1999
Lake Havasu City, AZ.......    1998     1999
Lake Havasu City, AZ.......    1998     1994
Lake Wales, FL.............    1999     1999
Lakeland, FL...............    2003     1991
Lakewood, NY...............    2003     1999
LaPorte, IN................    1998     1999
Laurel, MD.................    2002     1996
Lawton, OK.................    1995     1996
Lebanon, PA................    1998     1999
Lee, MA....................    2002     1998
Leesburg, FL...............    1999     1954
Leesburg, VA...............    2002     1993
Lenoir, NC.................    2003     1998
Lexington, NC..............    2002     1997
Litchfield, CT.............    1997     1998
Louisville, KY(1)..........    2003     1997
Lubbock, TX................    2003     1996
</Table>

                                        73
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)
<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                           GROSS AMOUNT AT WHICH CARRIED AT
                                           INITIAL COST TO COMPANY                                 CLOSE OF PERIOD
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)                     -----------------------   COST CAPITALIZED   --------------------------------------
                                                      BUILDINGS &     SUBSEQUENT TO                BUILDINGS &    ACCUMULATED
DESCRIPTION                 ENCUMBRANCES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS     ACQUISITION        LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   DEPRECIATION
-----------                 ------------   --------   ------------   ----------------   --------   ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>                <C>        <C>            <C>
Manassas, VA(2)............   $  4,039     $    750    $    7,450        $      0       $    750    $    7,450      $     50
Margate, FL................                     500         7,303           2,459            500         9,762         2,173
Marion, IN.................                     175         3,504             898            175         4,402           852
Martinsville, NC...........                     349                                          349
Marysville, CA.............                     450         4,172              44            450         4,216           353
Marysville, WA.............                     620         4,780                            620         4,780            21
Matthews, NC(3)............      4,060          560         4,869                            560         4,869            35
Merrillville, IN...........                     643         7,084             476            643         7,560         1,667
Mesa, AZ...................                     950         9,087                            950         9,087           802
Middleton, WI..............                     420         4,006                            420         4,006           210
Midwest City, OK...........                      95         1,385                             95         1,385           314
Monroe, NC.................                     470         3,681               7            470         3,688            28
Monroe, NC.................                     310         4,799               5            310         4,804            34
Monroe, NC(3)..............      3,466          450         4,021              11            450         4,032            30
Morehead City, NC..........                     200         3,104           1,602            200         4,706           391
Morristown, TN.............                     400         3,808             155            400         3,963           480
Moses Lake, WA.............                     260         5,940                            260         5,940            41
Naples, FL.................                   1,716        17,306                          1,716        17,306         4,563
Newark, OH.................                     410         5,711                            410         5,711           923
Newburyport, MA............                     960         8,290                            960         8,290           317
Norman, OK.................                      55         1,484                             55         1,484           380
North Augusta, SC..........                     332         2,558                            332         2,558           348
North Miami Beach, FL......                     300         5,709           2,006            300         7,715         1,589
North Oklahoma City, OK....                      87         1,508                             87         1,508           303
Oak Ridge, TN..............                     450         4,066             155            450         4,221           507
Oklahoma City, OK..........                     130         1,350                            130         1,350           297
Oklahoma City, OK..........                     220         2,943                            220         2,943           324
Ontario, OR................                      90         2,110                             90         2,110            14
Orange City, FL............                      80         2,239             265             80         2,504           454
Ossining, NY...............                   1,510         9,490                          1,510         9,490           413
Owasso, OK.................                     215         1,380                            215         1,380           280
Palestine, TX..............                     173         1,410                            173         1,410           289
Parkville, MD..............                     730         8,770           2,809            730        11,579         1,360
Paso Robles, CA............                   1,770         8,630                          1,770         8,630           429
Phoenix, AZ................                   1,000         6,500                          1,000         6,500            46
Pinehurst, NC..............                     290         2,690                            290         2,690            21
Piqua, OH..................                     204         1,885                            204         1,885           304
Pocatello, ID..............                     470         1,930                            470         1,930            15
Ponca City, OK.............                     114         1,536                            114         1,536           352
Portland, OR...............                     628         3,585             232            628         3,817           467
Reidsville, NC.............                     170         3,830             805            170         4,635           136
Ridgeland, MS(2)...........      5,130          520         7,680                            520         7,680            52
Rocky Hill, CT.............                   1,460         7,040                          1,460         7,040           328
Rocky Hill, CT(1)..........      5,101        1,090         6,710                          1,090         6,710            91
Roswell, GA................                   1,107         9,627                          1,107         9,627         2,209
Roswell, GA................                     620         2,200             184            620         2,384           103
Sagamore Hills, OH.........                     470         7,881              68            470         7,949           716
Salem, OR..................                     449         5,172                            449         5,172           694
Salisbury, NC(3)...........      3,755          370         5,697              27            370         5,724            40
Salt Lake City, UT.........                   1,060         6,142                          1,060         6,142           487
San Juan Capistrano, CA....                   1,390         6,942                          1,390         6,942           409
Sarasota, FL...............                     475         3,175                            475         3,175           735
Sarasota, FL...............                   1,190         4,810                          1,190         4,810            35
Saxonburg, PA..............                     677         4,669              44            677         4,713           664
Seven Fields, PA...........                     484         4,663                            484         4,663           634
Shawnee, OK................                      80         1,400                             80         1,400           315
Shelbyville, IN............                     165         3,497           1,139            165         4,636           947
Smithfield, NC(3)..........      3,777          290         5,777                            290         5,777            40
Statesville, NC............                     150         1,447                            150         1,447            11
Statesville, NC(3).........      3,037          310         6,183                            310         6,183            42
Statesville, NC(3).........      2,657          140         3,798              20            140         3,818            26

<Caption>

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                               YEAR     YEAR
DESCRIPTION                  ACQUIRED   BUILT
-----------                  --------   -----
<S>                          <C>        <C>
Manassas, VA(2)............    2003     1996
Margate, FL................    1998     1972
Marion, IN.................    1999     1999
Martinsville, NC...........    2003
Marysville, CA.............    1998     1999
Marysville, WA.............    2003     1998
Matthews, NC(3)............    2003     1998
Merrillville, IN...........    1997     1999
Mesa, AZ...................    1999     2000
Middleton, WI..............    2001     1991
Midwest City, OK...........    1996     1995
Monroe, NC.................    2003     2001
Monroe, NC.................    2003     2000
Monroe, NC(3)..............    2003     1997
Morehead City, NC..........    1999     1999
Morristown, TN.............    1998     1999
Moses Lake, WA.............    2003     1986
Naples, FL.................    1997     1999
Newark, OH.................    1998     1987
Newburyport, MA............    2002     1999
Norman, OK.................    1995     1995
North Augusta, SC..........    1999     1998
North Miami Beach, FL......    1998     1987
North Oklahoma City, OK....    1996     1996
Oak Ridge, TN..............    1998     1999
Oklahoma City, OK..........    1995     1996
Oklahoma City, OK..........    1999     1999
Ontario, OR................    2003     1985
Orange City, FL............    1999     1998
Ossining, NY...............    2002     1967
Owasso, OK.................    1996     1996
Palestine, TX..............    1996     1996
Parkville, MD..............    1997     1999
Paso Robles, CA............    2002     1998
Phoenix, AZ................    2003     1999
Pinehurst, NC..............    2003     1998
Piqua, OH..................    1997     1997
Pocatello, ID..............    2003     1991
Ponca City, OK.............    1995     1995
Portland, OR...............    1998     1999
Reidsville, NC.............    2002     1998
Ridgeland, MS(2)...........    2003     1997
Rocky Hill, CT.............    2002     1998
Rocky Hill, CT(1)..........    2003     1996
Roswell, GA................    1997     1999
Roswell, GA................    2002     1997
Sagamore Hills, OH.........    1998     2000
Salem, OR..................    1999     1998
Salisbury, NC(3)...........    2003     1997
Salt Lake City, UT.........    1999     1986
San Juan Capistrano, CA....    2000     2001
Sarasota, FL...............    1996     1995
Sarasota, FL...............    2003     1988
Saxonburg, PA..............    1999     1994
Seven Fields, PA...........    1999     1999
Shawnee, OK................    1996     1995
Shelbyville, IN............    1998     1999
Smithfield, NC(3)..........    2003     1998
Statesville, NC............    2003     1990
Statesville, NC(3).........    2003     1996
Statesville, NC(3).........    2003     1999
</Table>

                                        74
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)
<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                           GROSS AMOUNT AT WHICH CARRIED AT
                                           INITIAL COST TO COMPANY                                 CLOSE OF PERIOD
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)                     -----------------------   COST CAPITALIZED   --------------------------------------
                                                      BUILDINGS &     SUBSEQUENT TO                BUILDINGS &    ACCUMULATED
DESCRIPTION                 ENCUMBRANCES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS     ACQUISITION        LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   DEPRECIATION
-----------                 ------------   --------   ------------   ----------------   --------   ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>                <C>        <C>            <C>
Staunton, VA...............   $      0     $    140    $    8,360        $      0       $    140    $    8,360      $     59
Stillwater, OK.............                      80         1,400                             80         1,400           317
Terre Haute, IN............                     175         3,499           1,096            175         4,595           862
Tewksbury, MA..............                   1,520         5,480                          1,520         5,480            36
Texarkana, TX..............                     192         1,403                            192         1,403           285
Troy, OH...................                     200         2,000                            200         2,000           367
Tucson, AZ.................      3,500                      1,373          14,511            634        15,250           511
Twin Falls, ID.............                     550        14,740                            550        14,740           419
Urbana, IL.................                     670         6,780                            670         6,780           351
Vacaville, CA..............                     900         6,329                            900         6,329            62
Valparaiso, IN.............                     112         2,558                            112         2,558           174
Valparaiso, IN.............                     108         2,962                            108         2,962           198
Vero Beach, FL.............                     263         3,187                            263         3,187           212
Vero Beach, FL.............                     297         3,263                            297         3,263           219
Vincennes, IN..............                     118         2,893             673            118         3,566           581
Wake Forest, NC............                     200         3,003           1,703            200         4,706           467
Waldorf, MD................                     620         8,380           2,759            620        11,139         1,295
Walterboro, SC.............                     150         1,838             187            150         2,025           293
Waterford, CT..............                   1,360        12,540                          1,360        12,540           537
Waxahachie, TX.............                     154         1,429                            154         1,429           292
Westerville, OH............                     740         8,287           2,508            740        10,795         1,407
Williamsburg, VA...........                     374                                          374
Williamsport, PA...........                     390         4,068              36            390         4,104           486
Wilmington, NC.............                     210         2,991                            210         2,991           397
Winston-Salem, NC..........                     360         2,514               4            360         2,518            19
                              --------     --------    ----------        --------       --------    ----------      --------
TOTAL ASSISTED LIVING
  FACILITIES...............    100,771      108,027       967,070          63,728        108,806     1,030,019        93,097
SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES:
Agawam, MA.................                     880        16,112           1,901            880        18,013           509
Baytown, TX................                     450         6,150                            450         6,150           230
Beachwood, OH..............     19,602        1,260        23,478                          1,260        23,478         1,306
Birmingham, AL.............                     390         4,902                            390         4,902            77
Birmingham, AL.............                     340         5,734                            340         5,734            59
Bloomsburg, PA.............                                 3,918              32                        3,950           470
Boise, ID..................                     810         5,401                            810         5,401         1,000
Boise, ID..................                     600         7,383                            600         7,383         1,209
Braintree, MA..............                     170         7,157           1,109            170         8,266         2,181
Braintree, MA..............                      80         4,849             669             80         5,518         1,289
Brandon, MS................                     115         9,549                            115         9,549           143
Broadview Heights, OH......      9,239          920        12,400                            920        12,400           691
Canton, MA.................                     820         8,201             160            820         8,361           306
Cheswick, PA...............                     384         6,041           1,293            384         7,334         1,174
Cleveland, MS..............                                 1,850                                        1,850            62
Cleveland, TN..............                     350         5,000                            350         5,000           311
Coeur d'Alene, ID..........                     600         7,878                            600         7,878         1,277
Columbia, TN...............                     590         3,787                            590         3,787            24
Dedham, MA.................                   1,790        12,936                          1,790        12,936           623
Denton, MD.................                     390         4,010                            390         4,010           121
Douglasville, GA...........                   1,350         7,471                          1,350         7,471           119
Easton, PA.................                     285         6,315                            285         6,315         2,262
Eight Mile, AL.............                     410         6,110                            410         6,110           101
Elizabethton, TN...........                     310         4,604              40            310         4,644           364
Erin, TN...................                     440         8,060                            440         8,060           480
Eugene, OR.................                     300         5,316                            300         5,316           935
Fairfield, AL..............                     530         9,134                            530         9,134           137
Fall River, MA.............                     620         5,829           4,836            620        10,665         1,432
Falmouth, MA...............                     670         3,145              97            670         3,242           726
Florence, AL...............                     320         3,975                            320         3,975            71
Fort Myers, FL.............                     636         6,026                            636         6,026         1,260
Granite City, IL...........                     610         7,143                            610         7,143         1,099
Granite City, IL...........                     400         4,303                            400         4,303           615

<Caption>

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                               YEAR     YEAR
DESCRIPTION                  ACQUIRED   BUILT
-----------                  --------   -----
<S>                          <C>        <C>
Staunton, VA...............    2003     1999
Stillwater, OK.............    1995     1995
Terre Haute, IN............    1999     1999
Tewksbury, MA..............    2003     1989
Texarkana, TX..............    1996     1996
Troy, OH...................    1997     1997
Tucson, AZ.................    2002     2001
Twin Falls, ID.............    2002     1991
Urbana, IL.................    2002     1998
Vacaville, CA..............    2002     2001
Valparaiso, IN.............    2001     1998
Valparaiso, IN.............    2001     1999
Vero Beach, FL.............    2001     1999
Vero Beach, FL.............    2001     1996
Vincennes, IN..............    1998     1985
Wake Forest, NC............    1998     1999
Waldorf, MD................    1997     1998
Walterboro, SC.............    1999     1992
Waterford, CT..............    2002     2000
Waxahachie, TX.............    1996     1996
Westerville, OH............    1998     2001
Williamsburg, VA...........    2003
Williamsport, PA...........    1998     1999
Wilmington, NC.............    1999     1999
Winston-Salem, NC..........    2003     1996

TOTAL ASSISTED LIVING
  FACILITIES...............
SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES:
Agawam, MA.................    2002     1993
Baytown, TX................    2002     2000
Beachwood, OH..............    2001     1990
Birmingham, AL.............    2003     1977
Birmingham, AL.............    2003     1974
Bloomsburg, PA.............    1999     1996
Boise, ID..................    1998     1966
Boise, ID..................    1998     1997
Braintree, MA..............    1997     1968
Braintree, MA..............    1997     1973
Brandon, MS................    2003     1963
Broadview Heights, OH......    2001     1984
Canton, MA.................    2002     1993
Cheswick, PA...............    1998     1933
Cleveland, MS..............    2003     1977
Cleveland, TN..............    2001     1987
Coeur d'Alene, ID..........    1998     1996
Columbia, TN...............    2003     1974
Dedham, MA.................    2002     1996
Denton, MD.................    2003     1982
Douglasville, GA...........    2003     1975
Easton, PA.................    1993     1959
Eight Mile, AL.............    2003     1973
Elizabethton, TN...........    2001     1980
Erin, TN...................    2001     1981
Eugene, OR.................    1998     1972
Fairfield, AL..............    2003     1965
Fall River, MA.............    1996     1973
Falmouth, MA...............    1999     1966
Florence, AL...............    2003     1972
Fort Myers, FL.............    1998     1984
Granite City, IL...........    1998     1973
Granite City, IL...........    1999     1964
</Table>

                                        75
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)
<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                           GROSS AMOUNT AT WHICH CARRIED AT
                                           INITIAL COST TO COMPANY                                 CLOSE OF PERIOD
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)                     -----------------------   COST CAPITALIZED   --------------------------------------
                                                      BUILDINGS &     SUBSEQUENT TO                BUILDINGS &    ACCUMULATED
DESCRIPTION                 ENCUMBRANCES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS     ACQUISITION        LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   DEPRECIATION
-----------                 ------------   --------   ------------   ----------------   --------   ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>                <C>        <C>            <C>
Hardin, IL.................   $      0     $     50    $    5,350        $      0       $     50    $    5,350      $    259
Harriman, TN...............                     590         8,060                            590         8,060           512
Herculaneum, MO............                     127        10,373                            127        10,373           487
Hilliard, FL...............                     150         6,990                            150         6,990         1,026
Houston, TX................                     630         5,970             573            630         6,543           223
Jackson, MS................                     410         1,814                            410         1,814            33
Jackson, MS................                                 4,400                                        4,400           147
Jackson, MS................                                 2,150                                        2,150            72
Jefferson City, MO.........                     370         6,730                            370         6,730           315
Jonesboro, GA..............                     840         1,921                            840         1,921            37
Kent, OH...................                     215         3,367                            215         3,367         1,040
Lakeland, FL...............                     696         4,843                            696         4,843         1,024
Littleton, MA..............                   1,240         2,910                          1,240         2,910           131
Louisville, KY.............                     430         7,135                            430         7,135           407
Louisville, KY.............                     350         4,675                            350         4,675           273
McComb, MS.................                     120         5,786                            120         5,786            85
Memphis, TN................                     970         4,246                            970         4,246            72
Memphis, TN................                     480         5,656                            480         5,656            89
Midwest City, OK...........                     470         5,673                            470         5,673           981
Mobile, AL.................                     440         3,625                            440         3,625            62
Monteagle, TN..............                     310         3,318                            310         3,318            19
Morgantown, KY.............                     380         3,705                            380         3,705            20
Mountain City, TN..........                     220         5,896             317            220         6,213           474
Needham, MA................                   1,610        13,715                          1,610        13,715           670
New Port Richey, FL........                     624         7,307                            624         7,307         1,515
Ormond Beach, FL...........                                 2,739                                        2,739           230
Payson, AZ.................                     180         3,989                            180         3,989           743
Pigeon Forge, TN...........                     320         4,180                            320         4,180           279
Pleasant Grove, AL.........                     480         4,429                            480         4,429            76
Pueblo, CO.................                     370         6,051                            370         6,051         1,103
Rheems, PA.................                     200         1,575                            200         1,575
Richmond, VA...............                   1,211         2,889                          1,211         2,889            87
Ridgely, TN................                     300         5,700                            300         5,700           348
Rochdale, MA...............                     675        11,847              33            675        11,880           400
Rockledge, FL..............                     360         4,117                            360         4,117           383
Rockwood, TN...............                     500         7,116             410            500         7,526           549
Rogersville, TN............                     350         3,278                            350         3,278            19
Ruleville, MS..............                                    50                                           50             2
San Antonio, TX............                     560         7,315                            560         7,315           275
Santa Rosa, CA.............                   1,460         3,880              62          1,460         3,942         1,046
Sarasota, FL...............                     560         8,474                            560         8,474           922
South Boston, MA...........                     385         2,002           5,137            385         7,139         1,023
Spring City, TN............                     420         6,085           2,170            420         8,255           524
St. Louis, MO..............                     750         6,030                            750         6,030           218
Tupelo, MS.................                     740         4,092                            740         4,092            68
Vero Beach, FL.............                     660         9,040           1,461            660        10,501         1,982
Wareham, MA................                     875        10,313           1,134            875        11,447           354
Webster, MA................                     234         3,580             441            234         4,021           830
Webster, MA................                     336         5,922                            336         5,922         1,201
Webster, TX................                     360         5,940                            360         5,940           223
West Palm Beach, FL........                     696         8,037                            696         8,037         1,660
Westlake, OH...............     15,731        1,320        17,936                          1,320        17,936         1,013
Westlake, OH...............                     571         5,411                            571         5,411           950
Westmoreland, TN...........      2,217          330         1,822           2,505            330         4,327           259
White Hall, IL.............                      50         5,550                             50         5,550           274
Woodbridge, VA.............                     680         4,423                            680         4,423           174
Worcester, MA..............                   1,053         2,265             268          1,053         2,533           582
                              --------     --------    ----------        --------       --------    ----------      --------
TOTAL SKILLED NURSING
  FACILITIES...............     46,789       46,528       545,859          24,648         46,528       570,507        50,433

<Caption>

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                               YEAR     YEAR
DESCRIPTION                  ACQUIRED   BUILT
-----------                  --------   -----
<S>                          <C>        <C>
Hardin, IL.................    2002     1996
Harriman, TN...............    2001     1987
Herculaneum, MO............    2002     1984
Hilliard, FL...............    1999     1990
Houston, TX................    2002     1995
Jackson, MS................    2003     1968
Jackson, MS................    2003     1980
Jackson, MS................    2003     1970
Jefferson City, MO.........    2002     1982
Jonesboro, GA..............    2003     1992
Kent, OH...................    1989     1983
Lakeland, FL...............    1998     1984
Littleton, MA..............    1996     1975
Louisville, KY.............    2002     1974
Louisville, KY.............    2002     1975
McComb, MS.................    2003     1973
Memphis, TN................    2003     1981
Memphis, TN................    2003     1982
Midwest City, OK...........    1998     1958
Mobile, AL.................    2003     1982
Monteagle, TN..............    2003     1980
Morgantown, KY.............    2003     1965
Mountain City, TN..........    2001     1976
Needham, MA................    2002     1994
New Port Richey, FL........    1998     1984
Ormond Beach, FL...........    2002     1983
Payson, AZ.................    1998     1985
Pigeon Forge, TN...........    2001     1986
Pleasant Grove, AL.........    2003     1964
Pueblo, CO.................    1998     1989
Rheems, PA.................    2003     1996
Richmond, VA...............    2003     1995
Ridgely, TN................    2001     1990
Rochdale, MA...............    2002     1995
Rockledge, FL..............    2001     1970
Rockwood, TN...............    2001     1979
Rogersville, TN............    2003     1979
Ruleville, MS..............    2003     1978
San Antonio, TX............    2002     2000
Santa Rosa, CA.............    1998     1968
Sarasota, FL...............    1999     2000
South Boston, MA...........    1995     1961
Spring City, TN............    2001     1987
St. Louis, MO..............    1995     1994
Tupelo, MS.................    2003     1980
Vero Beach, FL.............    1998     1984
Wareham, MA................    2002     1989
Webster, MA................    1995     1986
Webster, MA................    1995     1982
Webster, TX................    2002     2000
West Palm Beach, FL........    1998     1984
Westlake, OH...............    2001     1985
Westlake, OH...............    1998     1957
Westmoreland, TN...........    2001     1994
White Hall, IL.............    2002     1971
Woodbridge, VA.............    2002     1977
Worcester, MA..............    1997     1961
TOTAL SKILLED NURSING
  FACILITIES...............
</Table>

                                        76
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)
<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                           GROSS AMOUNT AT WHICH CARRIED AT
                                           INITIAL COST TO COMPANY                                 CLOSE OF PERIOD
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)                     -----------------------   COST CAPITALIZED   --------------------------------------
                                                      BUILDINGS &     SUBSEQUENT TO                BUILDINGS &    ACCUMULATED
DESCRIPTION                 ENCUMBRANCES     LAND     IMPROVEMENTS     ACQUISITION        LAND     IMPROVEMENTS   DEPRECIATION
-----------                 ------------   --------   ------------   ----------------   --------   ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>                <C>        <C>            <C>
SPECIALTY CARE FACILITIES:
Braintree, MA..............   $      0     $    350    $    9,304        $  3,949       $    350    $   13,253      $  1,795
Chicago, IL................                   3,650         7,505           5,455          3,650        12,960           233
Clearwater, FL.............                     950                            29            979
New Albany, OH.............                   3,020        27,445                          3,020        27,445           123
Springfield, MA............                   2,100        14,978           7,709          2,100        22,687         2,180
Stoughton, MA..............                     975        20,021           3,430            975        23,451         2,738
Waltham, MA................                                 9,339           3,207                       12,546         1,841
                              --------     --------    ----------        --------       --------    ----------      --------
TOTAL SPECIALTY CARE
  FACILITIES...............          0       11,045        88,592          23,779         11,074       112,342         8,910
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS...                                14,701                                       14,701
                              --------     --------    ----------        --------       --------    ----------      --------
TOTAL INVESTMENT IN REAL
  PROPERTY OWNED...........   $147,560     $165,600    $1,616,222        $112,155       $166,408    $1,727,569      $152,440
                              ========     ========    ==========        ========       ========    ==========      ========

<Caption>

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                               YEAR     YEAR
DESCRIPTION                  ACQUIRED   BUILT
-----------                  --------   -----
<S>                          <C>        <C>
SPECIALTY CARE FACILITIES:
Braintree, MA..............    1998     1918
Chicago, IL................    2002     1979
Clearwater, FL.............    1997     1975
New Albany, OH.............    2002     2003
Springfield, MA............    1996     1952
Stoughton, MA..............    1996     1958
Waltham, MA................    1998     1932
TOTAL SPECIALTY CARE
  FACILITIES...............
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS...
TOTAL INVESTMENT IN REAL
  PROPERTY OWNED...........
</Table>

---------------

(1) In June 2003, three wholly-owned  subsidiaries of the Company completed  the
    acquisitions  of three assisted living facilities from Emeritus Corporation.
    The properties were subject  to existing mortgage  debt of $13,981,000.  The
    three  wholly-owned subsidiaries are included  in the Company's consolidated
    financial statements. Notwithstanding consolidation for financial  statement
    purposes,  it is the  Company's intention that  the subsidiaries be separate
    legal entities wherein the assets and  liabilities are not available to  pay
    other debts or obligations of the consolidated Company.

(2) In  September 2003, four wholly-owned  subsidiaries of the Company completed
    the  acquisitions  of   four  assisted  living   facilities  from   Emeritus
    Corporation.  The  properties  were  subject to  existing  mortgage  debt of
    $24,291,000.  The  four  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  are  included  in   the
    Company's  consolidated financial  statements. Notwithstanding consolidation
    for financial statement  purposes, it  is the Company's  intention that  the
    subsidiaries  be separate legal entities  wherein the assets and liabilities
    are not available  to pay  other debts  or obligations  of the  consolidated
    Company.

(3) In September 2003, 17 wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company completed the
    acquisitions of 17 assisted living facilities from Southern Assisted Living,
    Inc.  The properties were subject to  existing mortgage debt of $59,471,000.
    The 17 wholly-owned subsidiaries are included in the Company's  consolidated
    financial  statements. Notwithstanding consolidation for financial statement
    purposes, it is the  Company's intention that  the subsidiaries be  separate
    legal  entities wherein the assets and  liabilities are not available to pay
    other debts or obligations of the consolidated Company.

                                        77
<PAGE>
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                         ----------------------------------------
                                                            2003           2002           2001
                                                         ----------   --------------   ----------
                                                                      (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>              <C>
Investment in real estate:
  Balance at beginning of year.........................  $1,420,397     $1,037,395     $  856,955
  Additions:
     Acquisitions......................................     385,942        294,627        181,420
     Improvements......................................      52,079        115,079         10,863
     Conversions from loans receivable.................      12,433         33,972         13,683
     Other(1)..........................................     101,243          2,248            954
                                                         ----------     ----------     ----------
  Total additions......................................     551,697        445,926        206,920
  Deductions:
     Cost of real estate sold..........................     (75,325)       (60,626)       (26,480)
     Impairment of assets..............................      (2,792)        (2,298)
                                                         ----------     ----------     ----------
  Total deductions.....................................     (78,117)       (62,924)       (26,480)
                                                         ----------     ----------     ----------
  Balance at end of year(2)............................  $1,893,977     $1,420,397     $1,037,395
                                                         ==========     ==========     ==========
Accumulated depreciation:
  Balance at beginning of year.........................  $  113,579     $   80,544     $   52,968
  Additions:
     Depreciation expense..............................      52,870         40,350         30,227
  Deductions:
     Sale of properties................................     (14,009)        (7,315)        (2,651)
                                                         ----------     ----------     ----------
  Balance at end of year...............................  $  152,440     $  113,579     $   80,544
                                                         ==========     ==========     ==========
</Table>

---------------

(1) Represents assumed mortgages  in 2003  and 2002 and  land reclassified  from
    other assets in 2001.

(2) The  aggregate cost for tax purposes for real property equals $1,896,472,000
    at December 31, 2003.

                                        78
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                  SCHEDULE IV -- MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE
                               DECEMBER 31, 2003

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                                   -------------------------------------------
                                                                                                              PRINCIPAL AMOUNT
                                                                                                              OF LOANS SUBJECT
                                             FINAL                                                CARRYING     TO DELINQUENT
                               INTEREST    MATURITY    PERIODIC PAYMENT   PRIOR    FACE AMOUNT    AMOUNT OF     PRINCIPAL OR
DESCRIPTION                      RATE        DATE           TERMS         LIENS    OF MORTGAGES   MORTGAGES       INTEREST
-----------                    ---------  -----------  ----------------  --------  ------------   ---------   ----------------
<S>                            <C>        <C>          <C>               <C>       <C>            <C>         <C>
Sun Valley, CA                  12.830%    12/31/02    Monthly Payments              $ 21,500     $ 18,797        $18,797
  (Specialty care facility)                                $200,971
Chicago, IL                     15.210%    01/01/07    Monthly Payments                15,900       15,306           None
  (Specialty care facility)                                $130,182
Lauderhill, FL                  10.825%    09/01/12    Monthly Payments                12,700       12,700           None
  (Skilled nursing facility)                               $114,565
Oklahoma City, OK               10.280%    07/01/06    Monthly Payments                12,204       12,204           None
  (Skilled nursing facility)                               $104,548
Charlotte, NC                   5.000%     10/01/06    Monthly Payments                10,390       10,390           None
  (Assisted living facility)                               $43,291
Five skilled nursing            10.780%    03/31/07    Monthly Payments                12,198        7,388           None
  facilities in Texas                                      $115,355
Bala, PA                        15.610%    07/01/08    Monthly Payments                 7,400        7,145           None
  (Skilled nursing facility)                               $62,516
Home Quality Management, Inc.   12.930%    08/01/06    Monthly Payments                 8,702        6,534           None
  (8 skilled nursing                                       $250,000
  facilities and 3 assisted
  living facilities)
Owensboro, KY                   10.650%    08/01/18    Monthly Payments                 7,000        5,950           None
  (Skilled nursing facility)                               $55,077
Morningside Holdings, L.L.C.    11.410%    07/01/07    Monthly Payments                 5,000        5,353           None
  (6 assisted living                                       $50,900
  facilities)
Lecanto, FL                     12.080%    08/01/05    Monthly Payments                 5,410        5,048           None
  (Skilled nursing facility)                               $56,918
Carrollton, GA                  9.000%     09/01/09    Monthly Payments                 4,998        4,998           None
  (Assisted living facility)                               $37,487
25 mortgage loans relating to    From        From      Monthly Payments                61,717       52,326           None
  37 skilled nursing           1.980% to  01/01/05 to    from $1,355
  facilities, 43 assisted       13.040%    01/01/17      to $116,982
  living facilities and 2
  specialty care facilities
                                                                                     --------     --------        -------
    Totals...................                                                        $185,119     $164,139        $18,797
                                                                                     ========     ========        =======
</Table>

                                        79
<PAGE>

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                           SCHEDULE IV -- (CONTINUED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                2003       2002       2001
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                                      (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Reconciliation of mortgage loans:
  Balance at beginning of year..............................  $179,761   $212,543   $280,601
  Additions:
     New mortgage loans.....................................    48,117     85,006     17,791
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                               227,878    297,549    298,392
  Deductions:
     Collections of principal(1)............................    47,971     70,104     72,166
     Conversions to real property...........................    10,133     33,972     13,683
     Charge-offs............................................                2,554
     Other(2)...............................................     5,635     11,158
                                                              --------   --------   --------
  Balance at end of year....................................  $164,139   $179,761   $212,543
                                                              ========   ========   ========
</Table>

---------------

(1) Includes collection of negative principal amortization.

(2) Includes mortgage  loans that  were reclassified  to working  capital  loans
    during the periods indicated.

                                        80
<PAGE>

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<Table>
<C>     <S>
 3.1    Second  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
        (filed with the Commission as  Exhibit 3.1 to the  Company's
        Form  10-K filed March 20,  2000, and incorporated herein by
        reference thereto).
 3.2    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Junior
        Participating Preferred  Stock,  Series A,  of  the  Company
        (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
        Form 10-K filed March 20,  2000, and incorporated herein  by
        reference thereto).
 3.3    Certificate  of  Designations,  Preferences  and  Rights  of
        Series C  Cumulative  Convertible  Preferred  Stock  of  the
        Company  (filed with  the Commission  as Exhibit  3.1 to the
        Company's Form 10-K filed  March 20, 2000, and  incorporated
        herein by reference thereto).
 3.4    Certificate  of Amendment of  Second Restated Certificate of
        Incorporation of the Company  (filed with the Commission  as
        Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000,
        and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 3.5    Certificate  of Amendment of  Second Restated Certificate of
        Incorporation of the Company  (filed with the Commission  as
        Exhibit  3.1 to the Company's Form  8-K filed June 13, 2003,
        and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 3.6    Certificate of  Designation of  7 7/8%  Series D  Cumulative
        Redeemable  Preferred Stock  of the Company  (filed with the
        Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company's Form 8-A/A  filed
        July 8, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 3.7    Certificate   of  Designation  of  6%  Series  E  Cumulative
        Convertible and Redeemable  Preferred Stock  of the  Company
        (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
        Form 8-K filed October 1,  2003, and incorporated herein  by
        reference thereto).
 3.8    Amended  and Restated By-Laws of the Company (filed with the
        Commission as Exhibit  3.1 to the  Company's Form 8-K  filed
        October  24,  1997,  and  incorporated  herein  by reference
        thereto).
 4.1    The Company, by signing this  Report, agrees to furnish  the
        Securities  and Exchange Commission upon  its request a copy
        of any  instrument that  defines the  rights of  holders  of
        long-term  debt of the Company and authorizes a total amount
        of securities not in  excess of 10% of  the total assets  of
        the Company.
 4.2    Series  A  Junior  Participating  Preferred  Share  Purchase
        Rights Agreement, dated as of July 19, 1994 (filed with  the
        Commission  as  Exhibit 2  to the  Company's Form  8-A filed
        August 3, 1994 (File No. 1-8923), and incorporated herein by
        reference thereto).
 4.3    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997 between the Company and
        Fifth Third Bank (filed with  the Commission as Exhibit  4.1
        to  the  Company's  Form  8-K  filed  April  21,  1997,  and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 4.4    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 17, 1997, to
        Indenture dated as  of April 17,  1997, between the  Company
        and  Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as Exhibit
        4.2 to  the Company's  Form 8-K  filed April  21, 1997,  and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 4.5    Second  Supplemental Indenture, dated as  of March 13, 1998,
        to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company
        and Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit
        4.2  to the  Company's Form  8-K filed  March 11,  1998, and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 4.6    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 18, 1999, to
        Indenture dated as  of April 17,  1997, between the  Company
        and  Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as Exhibit
        4.2 to  the Company's  Form 8-K  filed March  17, 1999,  and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 4.7    Fourth  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 10, 2001,
        to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company
        and Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit
        4.2  to the  Company's Form  8-K filed  August 9,  2001, and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 4.8    Supplemental Indenture No. 5,  dated September 10, 2003,  to
        Indenture  dated as of  April 17, 1997,  between the Company
        and Fifth Third Bank (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit
        4.1  to the Company's Form 8-K filed September 24, 2003, and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
</Table>

                                        81
<PAGE>
<Table>
<C>     <S>
 4.9    Amendment No. 1, dated  September 16, 2003, to  Supplemental
        Indenture  No.  5, dated  September  10, 2003,  to Indenture
        dated as of April  17, 1997, between  the Company and  Fifth
        Third  Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the
        Company's  Form   8-K   filed  September   24,   2003,   and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 4.10   Indenture  for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September
        6, 2002, between  the Company  and Fifth  Third Bank  (filed
        with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K
        filed   September  9,  2002,   and  incorporated  herein  by
        reference thereto).
 4.11   Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002,
        to  Indenture  for  Senior  Debt  Securities,  dated  as  of
        September  6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank
        (filed with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.2 to the  Company's
        Form 8-K filed September 9, 2002, and incorporated herein by
        reference thereto).
 4.12   Amendment  No.  1,  dated March  12,  2003,  to Supplemental
        Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to Indenture
        for Senior Debt Securities, dated  as of September 6,  2002,
        between  the Company  and Fifth  Third Bank  (filed with the
        Commission as Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's Form 8-K  filed
        March   14,  2003,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference
        thereto).
 4.13   Supplemental Indenture  No. 2,  dated  as of  September  10,
        2003,  to Indenture for Senior  Debt Securities, dated as of
        September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third  Bank
        (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
        Form 8-K filed September  24, 2003, and incorporated  herein
        by reference thereto).
 4.14   Amendment  No. 1, dated September  16, 2003, to Supplemental
        Indenture  No.  2,  dated  as  of  September  10,  2003,  to
        Indenture  for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September
        6, 2002, between  the Company  and Fifth  Third Bank  (filed
        with the Commission as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Form 8-K
        filed   September  24,  2003,  and  incorporated  herein  by
        reference thereto).
 4.15   Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29,  2003,
        to  Indenture  for  Senior  Debt  Securities,  dated  as  of
        September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third  Bank
        (filed  with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
        Form 8-K filed October 30, 2003, and incorporated herein  by
        reference thereto).
 4.16   Form  of Indenture  for Senior  Subordinated Debt Securities
        (filed with the Commission as  Exhibit 4.9 to the  Company's
        Form  S-3 (File No. 333-73936)  filed November 21, 2001, and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
 4.17   Form of Indenture  for Junior  Subordinated Debt  Securities
        (filed  with the Commission as Exhibit 4.10 to the Company's
        Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936)  filed November 21, 2001,  and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1    Amended  and Restated Loan Agreement, dated August 23, 2002,
        by and among  Health Care REIT,  Inc. and its  subsidiaries,
        the  banks signatory thereto,  KeyBank National Association,
        as administrative agent, Deutsche  Bank Securities Inc.,  as
        syndication  agent,  and UBS  Warburg LLC,  as documentation
        agent (filed  with the  Commission as  Exhibit 10.1  to  the
        Company's  Form 8-K filed August  30, 2002, and incorporated
        herein by reference thereto).
10.2    Amendment No. 1, dated May 15, 2003, to Amended and Restated
        Loan Agreement, dated August 23,  2002, by and among  Health
        Care  REIT, Inc. and certain  of its subsidiaries, the banks
        signatory  thereto,   KeyBank   National   Association,   as
        administrative  agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc., as
        syndication agent,  and UBS  Warburg LLC,  as  documentation
        agent  (filed  with the  Commission as  Exhibit 10.1  to the
        Company's Form  8-K filed  June 13,  2003, and  incorporated
        herein by reference thereto).
10.3    Amendment  No.  2, dated  August  26, 2003,  to  Amended and
        Restated Loan Agreement, dated August 23, 2002, by and among
        Health Care REIT, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries,  the
        banks  signatory thereto,  KeyBank National  Association, as
        administrative agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc.,  as
        syndication  agent, and UBS Securities LLC, as documentation
        agent (filed  with the  Commission as  Exhibit 10.1  to  the
        Company's   Form   8-K   filed  September   24,   2003,  and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.4    Amendment No. 3,  dated December  19, 2003,  to Amended  and
        Restated Loan Agreement, dated August 23, 2002, by and among
        Health  Care REIT, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, the
        banks signatory  thereto, KeyBank  National Association,  as
        administrative  agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc., as
        syndication agent, and UBS Securities LLC, as  documentation
        agent.
</Table>

                                        82
<PAGE>
<Table>
<C>     <S>
10.5    Supplement,  dated January 30, 2004, to Amended and Restated
        Loan Agreement, dated August 23,  2002, by and among  Health
        Care  REIT, Inc. and certain  of its subsidiaries, the banks
        signatory  thereto,   KeyBank   National   Association,   as
        administrative  agent,  Deutsche  Bank  Securities  Inc., as
        syndication agent, and UBS Securities LLC, as  documentation
        agent.
10.6    Credit  Agreement by  and among  Health Care  REIT, Inc. and
        certain subsidiaries, Bank  United and  other lenders  party
        thereto,  dated  as of  February  24, 1999  (filed  with the
        Commission as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Form 10-K  filed
        March   26,  2001,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference
        thereto).
10.7    Amendment No. 1, dated April 5, 1999, to Credit Agreement by
        and among Health Care  REIT, Inc. and certain  subsidiaries,
        Bank  United and  other lenders  party thereto,  dated as of
        February 24,  1999 (filed  with  the Commission  as  Exhibit
        10.10  to the Company's Form 10-K  filed March 26, 2001, and
        incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.8    Credit Agreement by and between  Health Care REIT, Inc.  and
        Fifth  Third Bank, dated as of  May 31, 2003 (filed with the
        Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to  the Company's Form 8-K  filed
        June   13,  2003,  and   incorporated  herein  by  reference
        thereto).
10.9    The 1985 Incentive  Stock Option Plan  of Health Care  REIT,
        Inc.,  and the First  Amendment to the  1985 Incentive Stock
        Option Plan (filed  with the Commission  as Exhibit 4(b)  to
        the  Company's Form S-8 (File  No. 33-46561) filed March 20,
        1992, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10   Second Amendment to the 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan  of
        Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
        4.3  to the  Company's Form  S-8 (File  No. 333-01237) filed
        February 27,  1996,  and incorporated  herein  by  reference
        thereto).*
10.11   Third  Amendment to the 1985  Incentive Stock Option Plan of
        Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
        4.4 to the  Company's Form  S-8 (File  No. 333-01237)  filed
        with  the  Commission  February 27,  1996,  and incorporated
        herein by reference thereto).*
10.12   The 1995  Stock Incentive  Plan of  Health Care  REIT,  Inc.
        (filed  with the Commission as  Appendix II to the Company's
        Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
        filed  September  29,  1995,  and  incorporated  herein   by
        reference thereto).*
10.13   First  Amendment to the 1995  Stock Incentive Plan of Health
        Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to
        the Company's Form S-8  (File No. 333-40771) filed  November
        21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.14   Second  Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health
        Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to
        the Company's Form S-8  (File No. 333-73916) filed  November
        21, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.15   Third  Amendment to the 1995  Stock Incentive Plan of Health
        Care REIT, Inc.*
10.16   Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors of Health Care  REIT,
        Inc.  (filed  with the  Commission  as Exhibit  10.5  to the
        Company's Form  10-Q filed  May 13,  1997, and  incorporated
        herein by reference thereto).*
10.17   Second  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
        January 1, 2004 by  and between Health  Care REIT, Inc.  and
        George L. Chapman.*
10.18   Second  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
        January 1, 2004, by and  between Health Care REIT, Inc.  and
        Raymond W. Braun.*
10.19   Second  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
        January 1, 2004, by and  between Health Care REIT, Inc.  and
        Erin C. Ibele.*
10.20   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective January
        1,  2004, by and between Health  Care REIT, Inc. and Charles
        J. Herman, Jr.*
10.21   Employment Agreement,  effective  April  28,  2003,  by  and
        between Health Care REIT, Inc. and Scott A. Estes.*
10.22   Health  Care  REIT, Inc.  Supplemental  Executive Retirement
        Plan, effective  as  of  January 1,  2001  (filed  with  the
        Commission as Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Form 10-K filed
        March   10,  2003,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference
        thereto).*
</Table>

                                        83
<PAGE>

<Table>
<S>        <C>
    10.23  Health  Care REIT, Inc. Executive Loan Program, effective as of August 1999 (filed with the Commission as
           Exhibit 10.20 to  the Company's  Form 10-K filed  March 10,  2003, and incorporated  herein by  reference
           thereto).*
    14     Code of Business Conduct & Ethics.
    21     Subsidiaries of the Company.
    23     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors.
    24     Powers of Attorney.
    31.1   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
    31.2   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
    32.1   Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.
    32.2   Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.
</Table>

---------------

* Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

                                        84

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
