<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>d10k405.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

================================================================================

                   U. S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2000
                                       OR
[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the transition period from ________________ to  __________________

                          Commission file number 1-7685

                           AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


          Delaware                                    95-1492269
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

 150 North Orange Grove Boulevard
        Pasadena, California                                   91103
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (626) 304-2000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each
           Title of Each Class                  exchange on which registered
           -------------------                  ----------------------------

         Common stock, $1 par value                 New York Stock Exchange
                                                      Pacific Exchange

    Preferred Share Purchase Rights                 New York Stock Exchange
                                                      Pacific Exchange

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                Not applicable.

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_].

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates as of
February 26, 2001 was approximately $5,236,564,000.

  Number of shares of common stock, $1 par value, outstanding as of February 26,
2001: 110,245,091.

  The following documents are incorporated by reference into the Parts of this
report below indicated:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  Document                                             Incorporated by reference into:
                  --------                                             ------------------------------
<S>                                                                    <C>
Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year ended
December 30, 2000 (the "2000 Annual Report")..........................        Parts I, II
 Definitive Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held April 26, 2001 (the "2001 Proxy Statement")...................       Parts III, IV
</TABLE>

================================================================================
<PAGE>

                                    PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

  Avery Dennison Corporation ("Registrant") was incorporated in 1977 in the
state of Delaware as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation
to a California corporation of the same name which was incorporated in 1946. In
1990, Registrant merged one of its subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing
Company ("Dennison"), as a result of which Dennison became a wholly owned
subsidiary of Registrant, and in connection with which Registrant's name was
changed to Avery Dennison Corporation.

  The business of Registrant and its subsidiaries (Registrant and its
subsidiaries are sometimes hereinafter referred to as the "Company") includes
the production of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials and the production
of consumer and converted products. Some pressure-sensitive adhesives and
materials are "converted" into labels and other products through embossing,
printing, stamping and die-cutting, and some are sold in unconverted form as
base materials, tapes and reflective sheeting. The Company also manufactures and
sells a variety of consumer and converted products and other items not involving
pressure-sensitive components, such as notebooks, three-ring binders, organizing
systems, markers, fasteners, business forms, reflective highway safety products,
tickets, tags, and imprinting equipment.

  A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a
surface by mere press-on contact. It generally consists of four elements--a face
material, which includes paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive,
which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material
to protect the adhesive against premature contact with other surfaces, and which
can also serve as the carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels.
When the products are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are
removed, exposing the adhesive, and the label or other face material is pressed
or rolled into place.

  Self-adhesive materials may initially cost more than materials using heat or
moisture activated adhesives, but the use of self-adhesive materials often
effects cost savings because of their easy and instant application, without the
need for adhesive activation. They also provide consistent and versatile
adhesion, minimum adhesive deterioration and are available in a large selection
of materials in nearly any size, shape or color.

  International operations, principally in Western Europe, constitute a
significant portion of the Company's business. In addition, the Company is
currently expanding its operations in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Eastern
Europe.  During 2000, the Company announced plans to invest over $40 million in
the People's Republic of China over the next several years.  This investment
will include three new facilities and an expansion of the existing Kunshan
manufacturing plant. As of December 30, 2000, the Company manufactured and sold
its products from approximately 200 manufacturing facilities and sales offices
located in 42 countries, and employed a total of approximately 17,900 persons
worldwide.

  During 2000, the Company completed a realignment of its cost structure to
increase operating efficiencies and improve profitability.  In connection with
this realignment, the Company consolidated manufacturing and distribution
capacity, which resulted in the elimination of approximately 1,500 positions.

  The Company wishes to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and is subject to certain
risks referred to in Exhibit 99 hereto, including those normally attending
international and domestic operations, such as changes in economic or political
conditions, currency fluctuation, exchange control regulations and the effect of
international relations and domestic affairs of foreign countries on the conduct
of business, legal proceedings, and the availability and pricing of raw
materials.

  Except as set forth below, no material part of the Company's business is
dependent upon a single customer or a few customers and the loss of a particular
customer or a few customers generally would not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's business.  However, sales and related accounts receivable of
the Company's U.S. consumer products business are concentrated in a small number
of major customers, principally discount office products superstores and
distributors (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page
51 of the 2000 Annual Report, which is incorporated by reference).

                                       1
<PAGE>

United States export sales are not a significant part of the Company's business.
Backlogs are not considered material in the industries in which the Company
competes.

Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials Segment

  The Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment manufactures and sells
Fasson- and Avery Dennison-brand pressure-sensitive base materials, specialty
tapes, graphic films, reflective highway safety products, and chemicals.  Base
materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics,
which are primed and coated with Company-developed and purchased adhesives, and
then laminated with specially coated backing papers and films for protection.
They are sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive
coatings, and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes,
thicknesses and adhesive properties.  Except for certain highway safety
products, the business of this segment is not seasonal.

  Base material products, which consist of a wide range of pressure-sensitive
coated papers, films and foils, are sold to label printers and converters for
labeling, decorating, fastening, electronic data processing and special
applications.  Other product offerings include paper and film stock for use in a
variety of industrial, commercial and consumer applications. The Company also
manufactures and sells proprietary film face stocks, and specialty insulation
paper.

  Specialty tape products are single- and double-coated tapes and transfer
adhesives for use in non-mechanical fastening systems in various industries and
are sold to industrial and medical converters, original equipment manufacturers
and disposable-diaper producers worldwide.

  Graphic products consist of a variety of films and other products sold to the
worldwide automotive, architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and
other related markets. The Company also sells durable cast and reflective films
to the construction, automotive, fleet transportation, sign and industrial
equipment markets, and reflective films and highway safety products for traffic
and safety applications.  In addition, the Company sells specialty print-
receptive films to the industrial label market, metallic dispersion products to
the packaging industry and proprietary woodgrain film laminates for housing
exteriors and automotive applications. The Company's graphics businesses are
organized on a worldwide basis to serve the expanding commercial graphic arts
market, including wide-format digital printing applications.

  Chemical products include a range of solvent- and emulsion-based acrylic
polymer adhesives, top coats, protective coatings and binders for internal uses
as well as for sale to other companies.

  During the first quarter of 2000, the Company acquired Adespan, based in
Italy, a leading manufacturer of pressure-sensitive roll materials for Europe
and Latin America.  In the third quarter, the Company opened a new manufacturing
facility in Thailand to manufacture pressure-sensitive materials for the ASEAN
(Association of Southeast Asian Nations) markets.  In February 2001, the Company
announced the acquisition of Dunsirn Industries, based in Wisconsin, a leading
provider of non-pressure-sensitive materials to the narrow web printing industry
as well as a provider of customized slitting and distributing services for roll
material manufacturers.

  In this segment, the Company competes, both domestically and internationally,
with a number of medium to large firms. Entry of competitors into the field of
pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials is limited by high capital
requirements and a need for sophisticated technical know-how.  The Company
believes that its ability to serve its customers with a broad product line of
quality products and the development and commercialization of new products are
among the more significant factors in developing and maintaining its competitive
position.

Consumer and Converted Products Segment

  The Consumer and Converted Products segment manufactures and sells a wide
range of Avery-brand consumer products, custom label products, high performance
specialty films and labels, automotive applications and fasteners.  The business
of this segment is not seasonal, except for certain consumer products sold
during the back-to-school season.

                                       2
<PAGE>

  The Company's principal consumer products are generally sold worldwide through
wholesalers and dealers, mass market channels of distribution, and discount
superstores.  The Company manufactures and sells a wide range of Avery-brand
products for home, school and office uses, including copier, laser and ink-jet
printer labels, related computer software, presentation and organizing systems,
laser-printer card and index products, data-processing labels, notebooks,
notebook and presentation dividers, three-ring binders, sheet protectors, and
various vinyl and heat-sealed products.  A wide range of other stationery
products is offered, including writing instruments, markers, adhesives and
specialty products under brand names such as Avery, Stabilo, Marks-A-Lot and HI-
LITER, and accounting products, note pads and presentation products under the
National brand name. The extent of product offerings varies by geographic
market. Operations in Europe distribute a broad range of these types of products
under the Avery and Zweckform brands.  Operations in Latin America and Asia
Pacific have been established to market and distribute the Avery-brand line of
stock self-adhesive products, including copier, laser and ink-jet labels and
related software, laser printed card products and other unprinted labels.

  Custom label products in North America primarily consist of custom pressure-
sensitive and heat-transfer labels for automotive and durable goods industries
and custom pressure-sensitive labels and specialty combination products for the
electronic data-processing market.  These products are sold directly to
manufacturers and packagers and retailers, as well as through international
subsidiaries and distributors.  Label products in Europe include custom and
stock labels, labeling machinery and data printing systems, which are marketed
to a wide range of industrial and retail users.

  The Company designs, fabricates and sells a wide variety of tags and labels,
including bar-coded tags and labels, and a line of machines for imprinting,
dispensing and attaching preprinted roll tags and labels.  The machine products
are generally designed for use with tags and labels as a complete system.  The
Company also designs, assembles and sells labeling systems for integration into
a customer's shipping and receiving operations.  Principal markets include
apparel, retail and industrial for identification, tracking and control
applications principally in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific.  Fastener
products include plastic tying and attaching products for retail and industrial
users.

  The Company also manufactures and sells on-battery labels to battery
manufacturers, and self-adhesive stamps to the U.S. and international postal
services.  The Company is an integrated supplier of adhesive coating, security
printing and converting technologies for postage stamp production.  Specialty
automotive films products are used for interior and exterior vehicle finishes,
striping decoration and identification.  Other products include pressure-
sensitive sheeted and die-cut papers and films, which are sold through
distributors.

  In February 2001, the Company announced that it had acquired the CD Stomper
brand, a leading product line of CD and DVD labels, software and a label
applicator, which expands the Company's presence and distribution channels for
these label products.

  In this segment, the Company competes, both domestically and internationally,
with a number of small to large firms (among the principal competitors are
Esselte AB, Fortune Brands, Inc., and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.).
The Company believes that its ability to serve its customers with an extensive
product line, its distribution strength, its ability to develop and to
commercialize new products, and its diverse technical foundation, including a
range of electronic imprinting and automatic labeling systems, are among the
more significant factors in developing and maintaining its competitive position.

Research and Development

  Many of the Company's current products are the result of its own research and
development efforts. The Company expended $67.8 million, $64.3 million, and $65
million, in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, on research related activities by
operating units and the Avery Research Center (the "Research Center"), located
in Pasadena, California. A substantial amount of the Company's research and
development activities are conducted at the Research Center. Much of the effort
of the Research Center applies to both of the Company's operating segments.

  The operating units' research efforts are directed primarily toward developing
new products and processing operating techniques and improving product
performance, often in close association with customers. The Research Center
supports the operating units' patent and product development work, and focuses
on research and development in new adhesives, materials and coating processes,
as well as new product applications. Research and development generally focuses
on projects affecting

                                       3
<PAGE>

more than one operating segment in such areas as printing and coating
technologies, and adhesive, release, coating and ink chemistries.

  The loss of the Company's individual patents or licenses would not be material
to the business of the Company taken as a whole, nor to either one of the
Company's operating segments.  The Company's principal trademarks are Avery,
Fasson and Avery Dennison.  These trademarks are significant in the markets in
which the Company's products compete.

Three-Year Summary of Segment Information

  The Business Segment Information and financial information by geographical
areas of the Company's operations for the three years ended December 30, 2000,
which appears in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page
56 of the 2000 Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference.

Other Matters

  The raw materials used by the Company are primarily paper, plastic and
chemicals which are purchased from a variety of commercial and industrial
sources.  Although from time to time shortages could occur, these raw materials
are currently generally available.

  At present, the Company produces a majority of its self-adhesive materials
using non-solvent technology. However, a significant portion of the Company's
manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes certain evaporative
organic solvents which, unless controlled, would be emitted into the atmosphere.
Emissions of these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state, local
and foreign governments. During the past decade, the Company has made a
substantial investment in solvent capture and control units and solvent-free
systems. Installation of these units and systems have substantially reduced
atmospheric hydrocarbon emissions.

  Efforts have been directed toward development of new adhesives and solvent-
free adhesive processing systems. Emulsion, hot-melt adhesives or solventless
silicone systems have been installed in the Company's facilities in Peachtree
City, Georgia; Fort Wayne and Greenfield, Indiana; Quakertown, Pennsylvania;
Rodange, Luxembourg; Turnhout, Belgium; Hazerswoude, The Netherlands;
Cramlington, England; and Gotha, Germany as well as other plants in the United
States, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Colombia, France, Germany, Korea, China,
India and Thailand.

  Based on current information, the Company does not believe that the costs of
complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of materials into the
environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will
have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position of the Company.

  For information regarding the Company's potential responsibility for cleanup
costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see "Legal Proceedings" (Part I, Item 3)
and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition" (Part II, Item 7).

Item 2.  PROPERTIES

  At January 1, 2001, the Company operated approximately 31 principal
manufacturing facilities in excess of 100,000 square feet and totaling
approximately 5 million square feet. The following sets forth the locations of
such principal facilities and the operating segments for which they are
presently used:

  Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials Segment

  Domestic--Peachtree City, Georgia; Greenfield, Fort Wayne, Lowell, and
            Schererville, Indiana; Painesville and Fairport, Ohio; and
            Quakertown, Pennsylvania.

  Foreign--Turnhout, Belgium; Vinhedo, Brazil; Ajax, Canada; Kunshan, China;
           Cramlington, England; Champ-sur-Drac, France; Gotha, Germany;
           Rodange, Luxembourg; Rayong, Thailand; and Hazerswoude, The
           Netherlands.

                                       4
<PAGE>

Consumer and Converted Products Segment

  Domestic--Gainesville, Georgia; Chicopee and Framingham, Massachusetts;
            Meridian, Mississippi; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Clinton,
            South Carolina.

  Foreign--Hong Kong, China; La Monnerie, France; Oberlaidern, Germany; Juarez
           and Tijuana, Mexico; Utrecht, The Netherlands; and Maidenhead, U.K.

  In addition to the Company's principal manufacturing facilities described
above, the Company's other principal facilities include its corporate
headquarters facility and research center in Pasadena, California, and offices
located in Maidenhead, England; Leiden, The Netherlands; Concord, Ohio and
Framingham, Massachusetts.

  All of the Company's principal properties identified above are owned in fee
except the facilities in Juarez, Mexico; and La Monnerie, France, which are
leased.

  All of the buildings comprising the facilities identified above were
constructed after 1954, except parts of the Framingham, Massachusetts plant and
office complex.  All buildings owned or leased are well maintained and of sound
construction, and are considered suitable and generally adequate for the
Company's present needs. The Company will expand capacity and provide facilities
to meet future increased demand as needed. Owned buildings and plant equipment
are insured against major losses from fire and other usual business risks. The
Company knows of no material defects in title to, or significant encumbrances on
its properties except for certain mortgage liens.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  The Company, like other U.S. corporations, has periodically received notices
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and state environmental
agencies alleging that the Company is a potentially responsible party ("PRP")
for past and future cleanup costs at hazardous waste sites. The Company has been
designated by the EPA and/or other responsible state agencies as a PRP at nine
waste disposal or waste recycling sites which are the subject of separate
investigations or proceedings concerning alleged soil and/or groundwater
contamination and for which no settlement of the Company's liability has been
agreed upon. Litigation has been initiated by a governmental authority with
respect to two of these sites, but the Company does not believe that any such
proceedings will result in the imposition of monetary sanctions. The Company is
participating with other PRPs at all such sites, and anticipates that its share
of cleanup costs will be determined pursuant to remedial agreements entered into
in the normal course of negotiations with the EPA or other governmental
authorities. The Company has accrued liabilities for all sites, including sites
in which governmental agencies have designated the Company as a PRP, where it is
probable that a loss will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated. However, because of the uncertainties associated with
environmental assessment and remediation activities, future expense to remediate
the currently identified sites, and sites which could be identified in the
future for cleanup, could be higher than the liability currently accrued.  Based
on current site assessments, management believes the potential liability over
the amounts currently accrued would not materially affect the Company.

  The Registrant and its subsidiaries are involved in various other lawsuits,
claims and inquiries, most of which are routine to the nature of the business.
In the opinion of the Company's management, the resolution of these matters will
not materially affect the Company.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

                                       5
<PAGE>

                   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT/(1)/

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   Served as
                                                   Executive                   Former Positions and
             Name                       Age       Officer since               Offices with Registrant
             ----                       ---       -------------    ------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>              <C>
Philip M. Neal.........................  60       January 1974     1990-1998  President and Chief Operating Officer
 Chairman and Chief
 Executive Officer                                                 1998-2000  President and Chief Executive Officer
 (also Director of Registrant)

Dean A. Scarborough....................  45       August 1997      1995-1997  V.P. and General Manager,
 President and Chief                                                          Fasson Roll Division - Europe
 Operating Officer                                                 1997-1999  Group V.P., Fasson Roll North
 (also Director of Registrant)                                                America
                                                                   1999-2000  and Europe
                                                                              Group V.P., Fasson Roll Worldwide

Kim A. Caldwell........................  53       June 1990        1990-1997  Senior Group V.P.,
 Executive Vice President,                                                    Worldwide Materials -
 Global Technology and                                                        Americas and Asia
 New Business Development

Robert G. van Schoonenberg.............  54       December 1981    1996-2000  S.V.P., General Counsel and Secretary
 Executive Vice President,
 General Counsel and Secretary

Daniel R. O'Bryant.....................  43       January 2001     1996-1997  V.P., Operations Audit and Business
 Senior Vice President, Finance                                               Consulting
 and Chief Financial Officer                                       1997-1999  General Manager, Business Forms
                                                                              Division, Fasson Roll N.A.
                                                                   1999-2000  V.P. and General Manager,
                                                                              Product Identification Division,
                                                                              Fasson Roll N.A.
                                                                   2000-2001  V.P. and General Manager,
                                                                              Fasson Roll N.A.

Diane B. Dixon.........................  49       December 1985    1985-1997  V.P., Corporate Communications
 Senior Vice President,
 Worldwide Communications                                          1997-2000  V.P., Worldwide Communications and
 and Advertising                                                              Advertising

Robert M. Malchione/(2)/...............  43       August 2000      1996-2000  V.P., Boston Consulting Group
 Senior Vice President,
 Corporate Strategy and Technology                                 2000-2001  S.V.P., Corporate Strategy

Wayne H. Smith.........................  59       June 1979        1979-1999  V.P. and Treasurer
 Vice President, Financial Services
 and Treasurer

Thomas E. Miller.......................  53       March 1994       1993-1994  V.P. and Assistant Controller
 Vice President and Controller

Christian A. Simcic....................  44       May 2000         1995-1997  V.P. and General Manager, Fasson
 Group Vice President,                                                        Roll, Europe and Southern Region
 Fasson Roll Worldwide
                                                                   1997-2000  V.P. and Managing Director,
                                                                              Asia Pacific

Timothy S. Clyde.......................  38       February 2001    1997-1998  General Manager, Binders
 Group Vice President,                                                        Office Products N.A.
 Worldwide Office Products                                         1998-1999  General Manager, OF&P Division,
                                                                              Office Products N.A.
                                                                   1999-2000  V.P. and General Manager
                                                                              OF&P Division, Office Products N.A.
                                                                   2000-2001  V.P. and General Manager
                                                                              Office Products N.A.
</TABLE>

-----------------
(/1/) All officers are elected to serve a one-year term and until their
      successors are elected and qualify.
(/2/) Business experience during past 5 years prior to service with
      Registrant.

                                       6
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

  The information called for by this item appears on page 60 of Registrant's
2000 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  Selected financial data for each of Registrant's last five fiscal years
appears on pages 34 and 35 of Registrant's 2000 Annual Report and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
         FINANCIAL CONDITION

Results of Operations

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In millions)                                       2000       1999       1998
                                                  --------   --------   --------
<S>                                               <C>        <C>        <C>
Net sales......................................   $3,893.5   $3,768.2   $3,459.9
Cost of products sold..........................    2,561.3    2,486.8    2,315.4
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Gross profit...................................    1,332.2    1,281.4    1,144.5
Marketing, general and administrative expense..      851.3      842.6      773.2
Restructuring charge...........................         --       65.0         --
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Earnings before interest and taxes.............   $  480.9   $  373.8   $  371.3
</TABLE>

  Sales increased 3.3 percent to $3.89 billion in 2000, compared to $3.77
billion in 1999. Excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, sales
increased 7.4 percent. Acquisitions contributed 2.7 percentage points of sales
growth in 2000.  The Company's 2000 and 1999 fiscal years reflected 52-week
periods compared to a 53-week period in 1998. In 1999, sales increased 8.9
percent over 1998 sales of $3.46 billion. Excluding the impact of currency,
sales increased 10.3 percent in 1999.

  Gross profit margins for the years ended 2000, 1999 and 1998 were 34.2
percent, 34 percent and 33.1 percent, respectively. The improvement in 2000 was
due to manufacturing cost reductions and improved productivity related primarily
to the 1999 restructuring and other productivity improvement programs. The
increase in 1999 was primarily due to sales growth, cost reduction initiatives
and productivity improvements.

  Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percent of sales was 21.9
percent in 2000, 22.4 percent in 1999 and 22.3 percent in 1998. The improvement
in 2000 was due to increased sales and spending controls.

  In the first quarter of 1999, the Company announced a major realignment of its
cost structure designed to increase operating efficiencies and improve
profitability. The realignment resulted in a pretax restructuring charge of $65
million, or $.42 per diluted share on an after-tax basis. The restructuring
involved the consolidation of manufacturing and distribution capacity in both of
the Company's operating segments. The $65 million charge reflected the costs to
close manufacturing and distribution facilities, the elimination of
approximately 1,500 positions (principally in manufacturing), and other
initiatives to exit activities. The restructuring charge consisted of employee
severance and related costs of $35.1 million and asset write-downs of $29.9
million. Severance and related costs represented cash paid to employees
terminated under the program. Asset write-downs, principally related to
equipment, represented non-cash charges required to reduce the carrying value of
the assets to be disposed of to net realizable value as of the planned date of
disposal. At year end 1999, $12.3 million remained accrued for severance and
related costs and $6.7 million remained accrued for asset write-downs. During
2000, the Company completed the 1999 restructuring program and utilized amounts
accrued for purposes identified in the realignment plan. The Company realized
approximately $40 million in cumulative pretax savings from this program in
2000. With the completion of the restructuring program, the Company estimates
that cumulative pretax savings from the program will total approximately $60
million in 2001.

                                       7
<PAGE>

  Results from operations and certain other key financial measures for 1999 are
shown in this discussion with and without the impact of the restructuring
charge. The additional pro forma financial information, which excludes the
restructuring charge, is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, but is provided for comparative purposes.

  Interest expense for the years ended 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $54.6 million,
$43.4 million and $34.6 million, respectively. The increases in 2000 and 1999
were primarily due to increased debt to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures
and share repurchases.

  Income before taxes, as a percent of sales, was 10.9 percent in 2000, 8.8
percent in 1999 and 9.7 percent in 1998. Excluding the restructuring charge,
income before taxes, as a percent of sales, was 10.5 percent in 1999. The
improvement in 2000 reflects the benefits of manufacturing cost reductions,
improved profitability and the improvement in the marketing, general and
administrative expense ratio as a percent of sales. The improvement in 1999,
excluding the restructuring charge, was mainly attributable to higher gross
profit margins. The effective tax rate was 33.5 percent in 2000, 34.8 percent in
1999 and 33.7 percent in 1998. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to
improved profitability in the emerging markets which have more favorable tax
rates. The increase in 1999 was primarily due to a change in the geographic mix
of income. The Company estimates that the effective tax rate for 2001 will be
approximately 33.5 percent.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In millions, except per  share amounts)            2000     1999     1998
                                                   ------   ------   ------
<S>                                               <C>      <C>      <C>
Net income........................................ $283.5   $215.4   $223.3
Net income per common share.......................   2.88     2.17     2.20
Net income per common share, assuming dilution....   2.84     2.13     2.15
</TABLE>

  Net income totaled $283.5 million in 2000, $215.4 million in 1999, and $223.3
million in 1998.  Excluding the restructuring charge, 1999 net income was $257.8
million. Net income for 2000 increased 10 percent over 1999, excluding the
restructuring charge.  Net income, as a percent of sales, was 7.3 percent, 5.7
percent and 6.5 percent in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Excluding the
restructuring charge, net income, as a percent of sales, was 6.8 percent in
1999.

  Net income per common share was $2.88 in 2000 compared to $2.17 in the prior
year. Excluding the restructuring charge, net income per common share was $2.60
in 1999. Net income per common share in 2000 increased 10.8 percent over 1999,
excluding the restructuring charge. Net income per common share was $2.20 in
1998.

  Net income per common share, assuming dilution, was $2.84 in 2000 compared to
$2.13 in 1999. Excluding the restructuring charge, net income per common share,
assuming dilution, increased 11.8 percent from $2.54 in 1999. Net income per
common share, assuming dilution, was $2.15 in 1998.

Results of Operations by Operating Segment


Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In millions)                                          2000       1999       1998
                                                     --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                 <C>        <C>        <C>
Net sales........................................... $2,136.4   $2,025.0   $1,877.7
Income from operations before interest and taxes....    212.4      181.2      168.5
</TABLE>

  The Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment reported increased
sales and income for 2000 compared to 1999. Sales increased 5.5 percent to $2.14
billion in 2000, compared to $2.03 billion in 1999, driven primarily by growth
in international markets and the acquisition of Stimsonite in the U.S., and
offset by slow growth in the core domestic markets. Excluding changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, sales increased 10.7 percent. The segment's 1999 income
results include a pretax restructuring charge of $25.1 million ($15.4 million in
the U.S. operations and $9.7 million in the international operations). Increased
sales in the U.S. operations were primarily driven by the acquisition of
Stimsonite in the third quarter of 1999. Domestic sales growth was negatively
impacted by the slowdown in the North American economy and by an increasingly
competitive environment for the Company's roll materials business. The slowdown
in the roll materials business began in the second quarter of 2000 and was
initially driven by packaging and graphics changes planned by consumer product
companies that buy labels from the Company's converting customers, as well as a
general reduction of inventory levels at some retailers and consumer product
companies that impacted demand for packaging labels. The slowdown in the North

                                       8
<PAGE>

American economy also negatively impacted demand for products manufactured by
the Company's graphics and specialty tapes businesses. The Company expects that
the slower economic environment and volume trends will continue for the first
half of 2001. Sales for the international operations increased as a result of
strong volume growth in Asia, Latin America and Europe, as well as the recent
acquisition of Adespan in Europe. Sales growth in Europe was partially offset by
changes in foreign currency rates.

  The segment's 2000 income increased three percent to $212.4 million from 1999,
excluding the restructuring charge. Income from U.S. operations was negatively
impacted by the slowdown in the North American economy and by an increasingly
competitive environment for the Company's roll materials, graphics and specialty
tapes businesses. The negative impact caused by the slowdown in the North
American economy was partially offset by improvements from cost reduction
actions from Six Sigma (a program designed to improve productivity and quality,
while reducing costs) and restructuring programs. Income from the international
operations increased compared to 1999, excluding the restructuring charge,
primarily due to volume growth and improved profitability in the Asian and Latin
American businesses. Income growth in the segment's European operations was more
than offset by changes in foreign currency rates.

  In the first quarter of 2000, the Company acquired the Adespan pressure-
sensitive materials operation of Panini S.p.A., a European printing and
publishing company based in Italy. Adespan had sales of approximately $75
million in 1999. The Adespan business operates within the Company's Fasson roll
materials business in Europe.

  The Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment reported increased
sales and income for 1999 compared to 1998. Sales increased in the U.S.
operations primarily due to unit volume growth in the U.S. roll materials
business, particularly in sales of film and specialty products, and the
acquisition of Stimsonite. Income from U.S. operations improved primarily due to
sales growth and margin improvement in the U.S. roll materials business,
attributed to cost reduction actions from Six Sigma and restructuring programs,
as well as the acquisition of Stimsonite. Sales for the international operations
increased as a result of worldwide unit volume growth. The increase in
international sales was significantly offset by changes in foreign currency
rates. Income from the international operations increased primarily due to
increased sales and profitability in the Asian and Latin American businesses.

  In the third quarter of 1999, the Company acquired Stimsonite, based in Niles,
Illinois, a leading manufacturer of reflective safety products for the
transportation and highway safety markets. The Company paid approximately $150
million (including the assumption of approximately $20 million in debt) for
Stimsonite, which was primarily funded with the issuance of debt. Stimsonite had
sales of $87 million in 1998. The excess of the cost-basis over the fair value
of net tangible assets acquired was $124.7 million.

  In the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company acquired the remaining minority
stake in its Argentine business, the largest pressure-sensitive materials
operation in that country.


Consumer and Converted Products:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In millions)                                          2000       1999       1998
                                                     --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                 <C>        <C>        <C>
Net sales........................................... $1,898.3   $1,887.9   $1,726.2
Income from operations before interest and taxes....    293.2      224.8      229.1
</TABLE>

  The Consumer and Converted Products segment reported increased sales and
income for 2000 compared to 1999. Sales increased .6 percent to $1.9 billion in
2000 over 1999 sales of $1.89 billion. Excluding the impact of changes in
foreign currency rates, sales increased 3.7 percent. The segment's 1999 income
results include a pretax restructuring charge of $37.6 million ($24.3 million in
the U.S. operations and $13.3 million in the international operations).
Increased sales in the U.S. operations were primarily driven by sales growth for
Avery-brand office products. Domestic sales growth was negatively impacted by
decreased volume and an unfavorable product mix shift in the Company's
converting businesses. The converting businesses experienced a slowdown
attributable to the slowing North American economy and customer efforts to
reduce inventory levels. The Company expects that the slower economic
environment will continue for the first half of 2001. In addition to the
slowdown in the North American economy, three factors may negatively impact
volume growth for the domestic office products business in 2001: the closing of
approximately 120 office product retail stores by the Company's customers, fewer
new office product superstore openings planned by the Company's customers and
several large purchases

                                       9
<PAGE>

made by customers late in the fourth quarter of 2000. Strong volume growth in
international businesses, including the worldwide ticketing business in
particular, was more than offset by the unfavorable changes in foreign currency
rates. As a result, total sales from international operations decreased slightly
compared to 1999.

  The segment's 2000 income increased 11.7 percent to $293.2 million from 1999,
excluding the restructuring charge. Income from U.S. operations increased in
2000 primarily due to sales growth in the office products business, as well as
manufacturing cost reductions and improved productivity related to the 1999
restructuring. Income was partially impacted by decreased volume and an
unfavorable product mix shift in the Company's converting businesses. Income
from international operations increased compared to 1999, primarily due to
growth in the worldwide ticketing business and improved profitability in the
European and Asian office products businesses.

  The Consumer and Converted Products segment reported increased sales for 1999
compared to 1998. Excluding the restructuring charge, the segment's 1999 income
increased 14.6 percent over 1998. Sales increased in the U.S. operations as a
result of acquisitions, and solid sales growth for most Avery-brand product
lines and high performance films. Income from U.S. operations, excluding the
restructuring charge, improved primarily due to unit volume growth in Avery-
brand products and high performance films. The international operations reported
increased sales compared to 1998 due to the Zweckform venture, sales growth in
the worldwide ticketing business and acquisitions. The international operations'
sales increase was partially offset by changes in foreign currency rates. Income
for the international operations, excluding the restructuring charge, increased
primarily due to the Zweckform venture and growth at other office products
businesses in Europe, and operations in Asia.

  The segment was also impacted in 1999 by decreased sales and income in the
battery label business. A key customer in this business made a product mix
change in its battery lines, resulting in a partial shift from higher-priced
tester labels to standard battery labels.

  In the first quarter of 1999, the Company completed a transaction with
Steinbeis Holding GmbH to combine substantially all of the Company's office
products businesses in Europe with Zweckform Buro-Produkte GmbH (Zweckform), a
German office products supplier. The Company's aggregate cost basis in this
venture was financed through available cash resources of approximately $23
million and the assumption of an obligation as reported in the "Other long-term
obligation" line on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. It is the intention of the
Company to pay the entire obligation in 2004. The excess of the cost-basis over
the fair value of net tangible assets acquired was $104.6 million.

  In the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company acquired Spartan International,
Inc. (Spartan), a privately held specialty converting company based in Holt,
Michigan. Spartan supplies pressure-sensitive products to the commercial
graphics, sign making, vehicle marking and automotive markets.

Financial Condition

  Average working capital, excluding short-term debt, as a percent of sales was
6.4 percent in 2000, 5 percent in 1999 and 7.1 percent in 1998. The increase in
2000 reflects an increase in accounts receivable and average inventory and a
decrease in current liabilities related to the 1999 restructuring. The decrease
in 1999 was primarily attributable to higher sales and an increase in current
liabilities. Average inventory turnover was 8.8 turns in 2000, 9.5 turns in 1999
and 9.9 turns in 1998. The decrease in inventory turns in 2000 was primarily due
to higher inventory levels associated with recently acquired companies, as well
as a temporary increase in certain office products inventories to maintain
service levels as production moved to new manufacturing facilities as a result
of the restructuring. The average number of days sales outstanding in accounts
receivable was 56 days in 2000 and 52 days in 1999 and 1998. The increase in
2000 reflects longer payment terms associated with increased international
sales, recent acquisitions and some year end purchases by several of the
Company's large office products customers.

  Several of the Company's largest domestic customers operate in a highly
competitive retail business environment, which has been impacted by the slowing
economy in North America. As of year end 2000 and 1999, approximately 26 percent
and 27 percent, respectively, of trade accounts receivable were from nine of
these domestic customers. While the Company does not require its customers to
provide collateral, the financial position and operations of these customers are
monitored on an

                                       10
<PAGE>

ongoing basis. Although the Company may be exposed to losses in the event of
nonpayment, it does not anticipate any such losses at this time.

  Total debt increased $141.5 million to $827.2 million compared to year end
1999 primarily due to debt issuances to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures
and share repurchases. Total debt to total capital increased to 50 percent at
year end 2000 compared to 45.8 percent at year end 1999. Long-term debt as a
percent of total long-term capital increased to 48.3 percent from 43.3 percent
at year end 1999.

  Shareholders' equity increased to $828.1 million from $809.9 million at year
end 1999. During 2000, the Company repurchased 2.4 million shares of the
Company's common stock at a cost of $134.4 million. As of year end 2000, a
cumulative 36.7 million shares of the Company's common stock had been
repurchased since 1991 and 3.7 million shares remained available for repurchase
under the Board of Directors' authorization. The market value of shares held in
the employee stock benefit trust decreased by $314.1 million to $699.9 million
from year end 1999, due to the effect of the change in the Company's share price
and the issuance of shares under the Company's stock and incentive plans.

  Return on average shareholders' equity was 34.6 percent in 2000, 27.1 percent
in 1999 and 26.7 percent in 1998. Return on average total capital for those
three years was 19.6 percent, 17 percent and 19 percent, respectively. In 1999,
excluding the impact of the restructuring charge, return on average
shareholders' equity and return on average total capital were 31.1 percent and
19.5 percent, respectively. The improvement in these returns in 2000 and 1999
was primarily due to an increase in profitability.

  The Company, like other U.S. corporations, has periodically received notices
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental agencies
alleging that the Company is a potentially responsible party for past and future
cleanup costs at hazardous waste sites. The Company has received requests for
information, notices and/or claims with respect to nine waste sites in which the
Company has no ownership interest. Litigation has been initiated by a
governmental authority with respect to two of these sites, but the Company does
not believe that any such proceedings will result in the imposition of monetary
sanctions. Environmental investigatory and remediation projects are also being
undertaken on property presently owned by the Company. The Company has accrued
liabilities for all sites where it is probable that a loss will be incurred and
the minimum cost or amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. However,
because of the uncertainties associated with environmental assessments and
remediation activities, future expense to remediate the currently identified
sites, and sites which could be identified in the future for cleanup, could be
higher than the liability currently accrued. Based on current site assessments,
management believes that the potential liability over the amounts currently
accrued would not materially affect the Company.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

  Net cash flow from operating activities was $409.9  million in 2000, $426.9
million in 1999 and $419.5 million in 1998. The decrease in 2000 was due to
changes in working capital requirements. The improvement in 1999 was due to the
Company's improved profitability and changes in working capital requirements.

  In addition to cash flow from operations, the Company has more than adequate
financing arrangements, at competitive rates, to conduct its operations.

  The Company previously registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission
$150 million in principal amount of uncollateralized medium-term notes. All of
the $150 million in notes had been issued as of year end 2000. Proceeds from the
medium-term notes were used to refinance short-term debt and for other general
corporate purposes. The Company's outstanding medium-term notes have maturities
from 2002 through 2025 and have a weighted-average interest rate of 7 percent.

  Capital expenditures were $198.3 million in 2000 and $177.7 million in 1999.
Capital expenditures for 2001 are expected to be approximately $150 million.

  The annual dividend per share increased to $1.11 in 2000 from $.99 in 1999 and
$.87 in 1998. This was the 25/th/ consecutive year the Company increased
dividends per share.

                                       11
<PAGE>

  The Company continues to expand its operations in Europe, Latin America and
Asia Pacific. The Company's future results are subject to changes in political
and economic conditions and the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange and interest rates. To reduce its exposure to these fluctuations, the
Company may enter into foreign exchange forward, option and swap contracts, and
interest rate contracts, where appropriate and available.

  All translation gains and losses for operations in hyperinflationary economies
were included in net income. Operations are treated as being in a
hyperinflationary economy for accounting purposes, due to the cumulative
inflation rate over the past three years. Operations in hyperinflationary
economies consist of the Company's operations in Turkey for 2000 and 1999, and
Mexico for 1998. These operations were not significant to the Company's
consolidated financial position.

Subsequent Events

  On February 1, 2001, the Company announced that it acquired Dunsirn
Industries, Inc., a privately held company based in Wisconsin. Dunsirn
Industries is a leading supplier of non-pressure sensitive materials to the
narrow web printing industry, as well as a provider of customized slitting and
distribution services for roll materials manufacturers. The Dunsirn operation
will become a separate business unit within the Company's Fasson roll materials
business. The Company expects to generate approximately $60 million in net sales
from this acquisition.

  On February 13, 2001, the Company announced that it acquired CD Stomper, a
leading product line of CD and DVD labels, software and a label applicator, from
Stomp Inc., a software developer and manufacturer based in California. Sales in
2000 for the CD Stomper product line were approximately $20 million.

Recent Accounting Requirements

  In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements." SAB No. 101 provides guidance on applying generally accepted
accounting principles to revenue recognition issues in financial statements and
was effective the fourth quarter of 2000. The implementation of this guidance
did not have a material impact on the Company's financial results.

Future Accounting Requirements

  The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities" and related amendments. This Statement requires that all
derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are required to be recorded each period
in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending upon the type of
hedging transaction and the hedge effectiveness.

  The Company formed an implementation team drawn from both internal and
external resources, which reviewed the Company's derivative contracts and
existing hedge relationships, developed appropriate hedge effectiveness models
and updated accounting and reporting procedures to ensure proper measurement,
recording and reporting of derivative instruments and hedge items.

  The Company will adopt SFAS No. 133 in the first quarter of 2001. Based on
current market conditions, the Company anticipates that the impact of this new
standard will result in a transition adjustment of approximately $.5 million to
decrease net income.

  In September 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities - A Replacement
of FASB Statement No. 125." This Statement revises the standards for accounting
for securitizations and other transfers of financial assets and collateral. This
Statement is effective for the Company's 2001 fiscal year. The Company does not
believe that the new standard will have a material impact on the Company's
financial results.

                                       12
<PAGE>

Future Outlook

  Based on current (January 2001) exchange rates, the Company expects that
foreign exchange rates will have a negative impact on sales and net income
during the first quarter of 2001 as compared to the first quarter of 2000. The
Company projects that these foreign exchange rates will negatively impact sales
by approximately 3 percent and earnings per share, assuming dilution, by
approximately $.02, as compared to the same period in 2000. Based on current
foreign exchange rates, the effect of currency is expected to be immaterial to
operations during the second and third quarters, as compared to the same periods
in 2000. Current exchange rates are more favorable than those that existed
during the fourth quarter of 2000 and are expected to provide benefit to sales
and earnings per share, assuming dilution, of approximately 2.5 percent and
$.02, respectively, when compared to the fourth quarter of 2000. In summary,
based on current foreign exchange rates, the impact of currency is expected to
be negligible for the full year 2001 as compared to the prior year.

  In the fourth quarter of 2000 and the first quarter of 2001, two of the
Company's largest domestic customers in the Consumer and Converted Products
segment announced plans to close a total of 120 of their office product retail
stores. Including these store closures, the three office product superstores
still plan on adding a net of 75 or more retail stores. This is a slower rate of
expansion than in the past, and the Company estimates that the impact of their
slower new store growth could impact the Company's total sales in the first
quarter by one-half percent, and a lesser impact thereafter. In addition to the
store closures and a slower rate of expansion announced by several office
product retail store customers, the Company believes that two additional factors
may negatively impact volume growth for the domestic office products business in
2001: the slowdown in the North American economy and several large purchases
made by customers late in the fourth quarter of 2000.

  The Company anticipates that the slowdown in the North American economy will
continue to impact results for the first half of 2001. Volume growth is expected
to remain soft for the Company's domestic operations. As a result, the Company
anticipates comparable sales or low single-digit sales growth for the first
quarter of 2001. Earnings per share, assuming dilution, is projected to be in
the range of $.65 to $.70 for the first quarter of 2001.

  Assuming improvement in the North American economic environment, full year
reported revenue growth in 2001 is projected to be in the range of 4 percent to
6 percent, and earnings per share, assuming dilution, is projected to be in the
range of $2.90 to $3.05.

  Significant profit improvement initiatives will benefit the Company's 2001
results. The Company's 1999 restructuring program, Six Sigma projects,
procurement initiatives and other manufacturing cost reductions will generate
incremental savings in 2001. In addition, the Company plans on eliminating
approximately 300 positions during the year in order to cut costs, principally
in the domestic Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment.

Safe Harbor Statement

  Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in
the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition and other sections of this annual report contain "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. These statements, which are not statements of historical fact, may
contain estimates, assumptions, projections and/or expectations regarding future
events. Words such as "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "estimate," "expect,"
"plan," "project," "will," and other expressions, which refer to future events
and trends, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking
statements, and financial or other business targets, are subject to certain
risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially
from future results, performance or achievements of the Company expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and
uncertainties are discussed in more detail in the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2000 and include, but are not limited
to, risks and uncertainties relating to investment in new production facilities,
timely development and successful market acceptance of new products, price and
availability of raw materials,  impact of competitive products and pricing,
business mix shift, customer and supplier and manufacturing concentrations,
financial condition and inventory strategies of customers, changes in customer
order patterns, increased competition, loss of significant contract(s) or
customers, the euro conversion, legal proceedings, fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations, changes in
economic or political conditions, and other factors.

                                       13
<PAGE>

  Any forward-looking statements should also be considered in light of the
factors detailed in Exhibit 99 in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the years ended December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000.

  The Company's forward-looking statements represent its judgment only on the
dates such statements were made. By making any forward-looking statements, the
Company assumes no duty to update them to reflect new, changed or unanticipated
events or circumstances.

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market-sensitive Instruments and Risk Management

  The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate and foreign currency
exchange rate changes.

  The Company does not hold or purchase any foreign currency or interest rate
contracts for trading purposes.

  The Company's objective in managing the exposure to foreign currency changes
is to reduce the risk on earnings and cash flow associated with foreign exchange
rate changes. As a result, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward,
option and swap contracts to reduce risks associated with the value of its
existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, firm commitments and anticipated
foreign revenues and costs. The gains and losses on these contracts are intended
to offset changes in the related exposures. The Company does not hedge its
foreign currency exposure in a manner that would entirely eliminate the effects
of changes in foreign exchange rates on the Company's consolidated net income.

  The Company's objective in managing its exposure to interest rate changes is
to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to
lower its overall borrowing costs. To achieve its objectives, the Company will
periodically use interest rate contracts to manage net exposure to interest rate
changes related to its borrowings. The Company had no significant interest rate
contracts outstanding at year end 2000.

  In the normal course of operations, the Company also faces other risks that
are either nonfinancial or nonquantifiable. Such risks principally include
changes in economic or political conditions, other risks associated with foreign
operations, commodity price risk and litigation risks, which are not represented
in the analyses that follow.

Foreign Exchange Value-at-Risk

  The Company uses a "Value-at-Risk" (VAR) model to determine the estimated
maximum potential one-day loss in earnings associated with both its foreign
exchange positions and contracts. This approach assumes that market rates or
prices for foreign exchange positions and contracts are normally distributed.
The VAR model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions. Firm
commitments, receivables and accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies,
which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge, were included in the
model. Forecasted transactions, which certain of these instruments are intended
to hedge, were excluded from the model.

  The VAR was estimated using a variance-covariance methodology based on
historical volatility for each currency. The volatility and correlation used in
the calculation were based on two-year historical data obtained from one of the
Company's domestic banks. A 95 percent confidence level was used for a one-day
time horizon.

  The VAR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual
losses in fair value that could be incurred by the Company, nor does it consider
the potential effect of favorable changes in market factors.

  The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in earnings for the Company's
foreign exchange positions and contracts would have been immaterial to the
Company's 2000 earnings.

                                       14
<PAGE>

Interest Rate Sensitivity

  An assumed 50 basis point move in interest rates (10 percent of the Company's
weighted-average floating rate interest rates) affecting the Company's variable-
rate borrowings would have had an immaterial effect on the Company's 2000
earnings.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   The information called for by this item is contained in Registrant's
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto appearing on pages 44
through 56, and in the Report of Independent Accountants on page 57 of
Registrant's 2000 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

  None.

                                       15
<PAGE>

                                   PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The information concerning directors called for by this item is incorporated
by reference from pages 2, 3 and 4 of the 2001 Proxy Statement, which has been
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.
Information concerning executive officers called for by this item appears in
Part I of this report. The information concerning late filings under Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by
reference from page 14 of the 2001 Proxy Statement.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   The information called for by items 11, 12 and 13 is incorporated by
reference from pages 5 through 21 of the 2001 Proxy Statement which has been
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.


                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

   (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits

     (1) (2) Financial statements and financial statement schedules filed as
  part of this report are listed in the accompanying Index to Financial
  Statements and Financial Statement Schedules.

     (3) Exhibits filed as a part of this report are listed in the Exhibit
  Index, which follows the financial statements and schedules referred to above.
  Each management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
  filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c) is identified in
  the Exhibit Index.

   (b) Reports on Form 8-K: Registrant did not file any Reports on Form 8-K for
the three months ended December 30, 2000.

   (c) Those Exhibits and the Index thereto, required to be filed by Item 601 of
Regulation S-K are attached hereto.

   (d) Those financial statement schedules required by Regulation S-X which are
excluded from Registrant's 2000 Annual Report by Rule 14a-3(b)(1), and which are
required to be filed as financial statement schedules to this report, are
indicated in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedules.

                                       16
<PAGE>

                                  SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                          Avery Dennison Corporation


                           By        /s/  Daniel R. O'Bryant
                             ----------------------------------------
                                     Daniel R. O'Bryant
                             Senior Vice President, Finance and
                                  Chief Financial Officer

Dated: March 29, 2001

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     Signature                             Title                                 Date
     ---------                             -----                                 ----
<S>                                  <C>                                       <C>
  /s/  Philip M. Neal                  Chairman and Chief Executive            March 29, 2001
---------------------------                 Officer, Director
   Philip M. Neal


 /s/  Dean A. Scarborough            President and Chief Operating Officer,    March 29, 2001
---------------------------                       Director
  Dean A. Scarborough


 /s/  Daniel R. O'Bryant           Senior Vice President, Finance and          March 29, 2001
---------------------------              Chief Financial Officer
   Daniel R. O'Bryant                 (Principal Financial Officer)


 /s/  Thomas E. Miller               Vice President and Controller             March 29, 2001
---------------------------          (Principal Accounting Officer)
     Thomas E. Miller
</TABLE>

                                       17
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     Signature                              Title                                 Date
     ---------                              -----                                 ----
<S>                                         <C>                               <C>
/s/  Dwight L. Allison, Jr.                 Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
    Dwight L. Allison, Jr.

 /s/  John C. Argue                         Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
    John C. Argue

 /s/  Joan T. Bok                           Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
      Joan T. Bok

 /s/  Frank V. Cahouet                      Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
     Frank V. Cahouet

 /s/ Richard M. Ferry                       Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
    Richard M. Ferry

 /s/  Kent Kresa                            Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
     Kent Kresa

 /s/  Charles D. Miller                     Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
      Charles D. Miller

 /s/  Peter W. Mullin                       Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
     Peter W. Mullin

 /s/  Sidney R. Petersen                    Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
     Sidney R. Petersen

 /s/  David E. I. Pyott                     Director                          March 29, 2001
------------------------------
      David E. I. Pyott
</TABLE>

                                       18
<PAGE>

                          AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION

                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL
                              STATEMENT SCHEDULES


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                Reference (page)
                                                                                         --------------------------------
                                                                                             Form
                                                                                             10-K            Annual
                                                                                            Annual          Report to
                                                                                            Report        Shareholders
                                                                                         -----------     ----------------
<S>                                                                                      <C>             <C>
Data incorporated by reference from the attached portions of the 2000 Annual
   Report to Shareholders of Avery Dennison Corporation:
   Report of Independent Accountants...............................................             --                 57
   Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 30, 2000 and January 1,  2000............             --                 44
   Consolidated Statement of Income for 2000, 1999 and 1998........................             --                 45
   Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for 2000, 1999 and 1998..........             --                 46
   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for 2000, 1999 and 1998....................             --                 47
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements......................................             --               48-56
</TABLE>

     Individual financial statements of 50% or less owned entities accounted
for by the equity method have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate
or as a single subsidiary, they do not constitute a significant subsidiary.

  With the exception of the consolidated financial statements and the
accountants' report thereon listed in the above index, and certain information
referred to in Items 1, 5 and 6, which information is included in the 2000
Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference, the 2000 Annual Report
is not to be deemed "filed" as part of this report.

<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                             <C>                <C>
Data submitted herewith:
   Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule...............             S-2                --
   Financial Statement Schedules (for 2000, 1999 and 1998):
       II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves..........................             S-3                --
 Consent of Independent Accountants................................................             S-4                --
</TABLE>


   All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present
or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule,
or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto.

                                      S-1
<PAGE>

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Avery Dennison Corporation:

   Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated January 22, 2001 appearing in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders of
Avery Dennison Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements
are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included
an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K.  In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.



PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Los Angeles, California
January 22, 2001

                                      S-2
<PAGE>

          SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                                 (In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        Additions
                                                  -------------------------
                                     Balance at   Charged to                                   Balance
                                     Beginning    Costs and       From           Deductions     at End
                                      of Year     Expenses     Acquisitions    from Reserves   of Year
                                     ---------    --------     ------------    -------------   -------
<S>                                  <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>             <C>
2000
  Allowance for doubtful accounts        $19.5       $ 7.6         $ 0.2          $ (7.9)       $19.4
  Customer complaint reserve              21.6         8.6           0.7           (12.9)        18.0
  Inventory reserve                       28.6        10.9           0.8            (9.9)        30.4


1999
  Allowance for doubtful accounts         16.5         8.7           2.4            (8.1)        19.5
  Customer complaint reserve              19.5        10.9           0.1            (8.9)        21.6
  Inventory reserve                       24.5        11.3           2.3            (9.5)        28.6

1998
  Allowance for doubtful accounts         15.6         2.7           0.2            (2.0)        16.5
  Customer complaint reserve              18.8         3.6           0.3            (3.2)        19.5
  Inventory reserve                       24.3        14.1           0.4           (14.3)        24.5
</TABLE>

                                      S-3
<PAGE>

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

   We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-38905) and Form S-8 (File Nos. 33-1132, 33-
3645, 33-27275, 33-41238, 33-45376, 33-54411, 33-58921, 33-63979, 333-38707 and
333-38709) of Avery Dennison Corporation of our report dated January 22, 2001
relating to the financial statements, which appears in the 2000 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also
consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 22, 2001
relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Los Angeles, California
March 28, 2001

                                      S-4
<PAGE>

                          AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

                     For the Year Ended December 30, 2000

INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Originally
Exhibit                                                     Filed as
  No.                 Item                                 Exhibit No.                   Document
-------               ----                                 -----------                   --------
<S>          <C>                                           <C>              <C>
(3.1)        Restated Articles of Incorporation                 B            Proxy Statement dated February 28, 1977
                                                                             for Annual Meeting of Stockholders March
                                                                             30, 1977; located in File No. 0-225 at
                                                                             Securities and Exchange Commission, 450
                                                                             5th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

(3.1.1)      Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation,          3.1.1       1983 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             filed April 10, 1984 with Office of
             Delaware Secretary of State

(3.1.2)      Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation,          3.1.2       1984 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             filed April 11, 1985 with Office of
             Delaware Secretary of State


(3.1.3)      Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation           3.1.3       1986 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             filed April 6, 1987 with Office of
             Delaware Secretary of State

(3.1.4)      Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation                       Current Report on Form 8-K filed October
             filed October 17, 1990 with Office of                           31, 1990
             Delaware Secretary of State

(3.1.5)      Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation             3         First Quarterly report for 1997 on Form
             filed April 28, 1997 with Office of                             10-Q
             Delaware Secretary of State

(3.2)        By-laws, as amended                                3(ii)        Third Quarterly report for 2000 on Form
                                                                             10-Q

(4.1)        Rights Agreement dated as of October 23,                        Current Report on Form 8-K filed October
             1997                                                            24, 1997

(4.2)        Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1991,                          Registration Statement on Form S-3
             between Registrant and Security Pacific                         (File No. 33-39491)
             National Bank, as Trustee (the "Indenture")

(4.3)        Officers' Certificate establishing a                            Current Report on Form 8-K filed March
             series of Securities entitled "Medium-Term                      25, 1991
             Notes" under the Indenture

(4.4)        First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of                       Registration Statement on Form S-3
             March 16, 1993, between Registrant and                          (File No. 33-59642)
             BankAmerica National Trust Company,
             as successor Trustee (the "Supplemental
             Indenture")

(4.5)        Officers' Certificate establishing a                            Current Report on Form 8-K filed April
             series  of Securities entitled "Medium-Term                     7, 1993
             Notes" under the Indenture, as amended
             by the Supplemental Indenture

(4.6)        Officers' Certificate establishing a                            Current Report on Form 8-K filed March
             series of Securities entitled "Medium-Term                      29, 1994
             Notes, Series B" under the Indenture, as
             amended by the Supplemental Indenture

(4.7)        Officers' Certificate establishing a                            Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 12,
             series of Securities entitled "Medium-Term                      1995
             Notes, Series C" under the Indenture, as
             amended by the Supplemental Indenture
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Originally
Exhibit                                                     Filed as
  No.                 Item                                 Exhibit No.                   Document
-------               ----                                 -----------                  ----------
<S>          <C>                                           <C>              <C>
(4.8)        Officers' Certificate establishing a                            Current Report on Form 8-K filed
             series of Securities entitled "Medium-Term                      December 16, 1996
             Notes, Series D" under the Indenture, as
             amended by the Supplemental Indenture

(10.3)       *Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors            10.3       1981 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.5)       *Executive Medical and Dental Plan                   10.5       1981 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             (description)

(10.6)       *Executive Financial Counseling Service              10.6       1981 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             (description)

(10.8.2)     *Agreement with P.M. Neal                          10.8.2       1998 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.8.3)     *Agreement with R.G. van Schoonenberg              10.8.3       1996 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.8.4)     *Form of Employment Agreement                      10.8.4       1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.9)       *Executive Group Life Insurance Plan                 10.9       1982 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.10)      *Form of Indemnity Agreement between                10.10       1986 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Registrant and certain directors and
             officers

(10.10.1)    *Form of Indemnity Agreement between              10.10.1       1993 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Registrant and certain directors and
             officers

(10.11)      *Amended and Restated Supplemental                10.11.1       1998 Annual Report on From 10-K
             Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP")

(10.11.2)    *Letter of Grant to Philip M. Neal                10.11.2       1998 Annual Report on From 10-K
             under SERP

(10.12)      *Complete Restatement and Amendment of              10.12       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Executive Deferred Compensation Plan

(10.13)      *Fourth Amended Avery Dennison                    10.13.2       1992 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Retirement Plan for Directors

(10.15)      *1988 Stock Option Plan for Non-                    10.15       1987 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Employee Directors ("Director Plan")

(10.15.1)    *Amendment No. 1 to 1988 Stock Option             10.15.1       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Plan for Non-Employee Directors
             ("Director Plan")

(10.15.2)    *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock              10.15.2       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Option Agreement under Director Plan

(10.16)      *Complete Restatement and Amendment of              10.16       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Executive Variable Deferred Compensation
             Plan ("EVDCP")

(10.16.1)    *Amendment No. 1 to EVDCP                         10.16.1       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.17)      *Complete Restatement and Amendment of              10.17       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Directors Deferred Compensation Plan

(10.18)      *Complete Restatement and Amendment of              10.18       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Directors Variable Deferred Compensation
             Plan ("DVDCP")

(10.18.1)    *Amendment No. 1 to DVDCP                         10.18.1       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.19)      *1990 Stock Option and Incentive Plan               10.19       1989 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             ("1990 Plan")

(10.19.1)    *Amendment No. 1 to 1990 Plan                     10.19.1       1993 Annual Report on Form 10-K
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Originally
Exhibit                                                     Filed as
  No.                 Item                                 Exhibit No.                   Document
-------               ----                                ------------                  ------------
<S>          <C>                                           <C>              <C>
(10.19.2)    *Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement         10.19.2       1991 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for use under 1990 Plan

(10.19.3)    *Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option               10.19.3       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             ("NSO") Agreement under 1990 Plan

(10.19.4)    *Form of NQSO Agreement under 1990 Plan           10.19.4       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.19.5)    *Amendment No. 2 to 1990 Plan                     10.19.5       1996 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.21)      *Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Incentive          10.21       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Plan

(10.21.1)    *Form of NQSO Agreement under 1996 Plan           10.21.1       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.27)      *Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan                 10.27       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.28)      *Complete Restatement and Amendment of              10.28       1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Executive Deferred Retirement Plan ("EDRP")

(10.28.1)    *Amendment No. 1 to EDRP                          10.28.1       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.29)      *Executive Leadership Compensation Plan             10.29       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.30)      *Senior Executive Leadership Compensation           10.30       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Plan

(10.31)      *Executive Variable Deferred Retirement             10.31       Registration Statement on Form S-8
             Plan ("EVDRP")                                                  (File No. 33-63979)

(10.31.1)    *Amended and Restated EVDRP                       10.31.1       1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.31.2)    *Amendment No. 1 to EVDRP                         10.31.2       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.32)      *Benefit Restoration Plan                           10.32       1995 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.33)      *Restated Trust Agreement for Employee            10.33.1       1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Stock Benefit Trust

(10.33.1)    *Common Stock Purchase Agreement                     10.2       Current Report on Form 8-K filed October
                                                                             24, 1996

(10.33.2)    *Restated Promissory Note                         10.33.3       1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K

(10.34)      *Amended and Restated Capital Accumulation          10.34       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K
             Plan ("CAP")

(10.34.1)    *Trust under CAP                                      4.2       Registration Statement on Form S-8
                                                                             (File No. 333-38707)

(10.34.2)    *Amendment No. 1 to CAP                           10.34.2       1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K
</TABLE>

_________________
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
  as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c).
<PAGE>

SUBMITTED HEREWITH:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Exhibit No.                               Item
-----------                               ----
<S>                          <C>
3.2                          Bylaws, as amended on December 7, 2000

10.15.3                      Amendment No. 2 to Director Plan

12                           Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Changes

13                           Portions of Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year ended December 30, 2000

21                           List of Subsidiaries

23                           Consent of Independent Accountants (see page S-4)

99                           Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
                             Reform Act of 1995
</TABLE>
______________
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
  as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c).


                       STATEMENT AND AGREEMENT REGARDING
                         LONG-TERM DEBT OF REGISTRANT

   Except as indicated above, Registrant has no instrument with respect to long-
term debt under which securities authorized thereunder equal or exceed 10% of
the total assets of Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of its long-term debt instruments to the
Commission upon request.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
