<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>file10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FILE 10K 20001
<TEXT>
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

                                       or

          [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                         Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-7784

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

             Louisiana                                     72-0651161
  (State or other jurisdiction of                        (IRS Employer
  incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

   100 CenturyTel Drive, Monroe, Louisiana                   71203
   (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code - (318) 388-9000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

      Title of each class             Name of each exchange on which registered
      -------------------             -----------------------------------------

  Common Stock, par value $1.00                  New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Berlin Stock Exchange
  Preference Share Purchase Rights               New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Berlin Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of February 28, 2002, the aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates (affiliates being for these purposes only directors, executive
officers and holders of more than five percent of the Company's outstanding
voting securities) was $4.7 billion. As of February 28, 2002, there were
141,299,473 shares of common stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement prepared in connection with the
2002 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated in Part III of this Report.

<PAGE>
                                     PART I

Item 1.       Business

      General.  CenturyTel, Inc. ("CenturyTel") is a regional integrated
communications company engaged primarily in providing local exchange telephone
services and wireless communications services. For the year ended December 31,
2001, local exchange telephone operations and wireless operations provided 71%
and 21%, respectively, of the consolidated revenues of CenturyTel and its
subsidiaries (the "Company"). All of the Company's operations are conducted
within the continental United States.

      At December 31, 2001, the Company's local exchange telephone subsidiaries
operated approximately 1.8 million telephone access lines, primarily in rural,
suburban and small urban areas in 21 states, with the largest customer bases
located in Wisconsin, Arkansas, Washington, Missouri, Michigan, Louisiana and
Colorado. According to published sources, the Company is the eighth largest
local exchange telephone company in the United States based on the number of
access lines served. For more information, see "Telephone Operations."

      At December 31, 2001, the Company's majority-owned and operated cellular
systems (i) served approximately 797,000 customers in 19 Metropolitan
Statistical Areas ("MSAs") and 22 Rural Service Areas ("RSAs") in Michigan,
Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Wisconsin and Texas and (ii) had access to
approximately 7.8 million cellular pops (the estimated population of licensed
cellular telephone markets multiplied by the Company's proportionate equity
interest in the licensed operators thereof). At December 31, 2001, the Company
also owned minority equity interests in 10 MSAs and 22 RSAs, representing
approximately 2.0 million cellular pops. According to data derived from
published sources, the Company is the eighth largest cellular telephone company
in the United States based on the Company's 9.8 million aggregate pops. In
August 2001, the Company announced that it is exploring the separation of its
wireless business from its other operations. For more information, see "Wireless
Operations."

      The Company also provides long distance, Internet access, competitive
local exchange carrier, broadband data, security monitoring, and other
communications and business information services in certain local and regional
markets. For more information, see "Other Operations."

      Recent acquisitions and dispositions. On July 31, 2000 and September 29,
2000, affiliates of the Company acquired over 490,000 telephone access lines and
related assets from Verizon Communications, Inc. ("Verizon") in four separate
transactions for approximately $1.5 billion in cash. Under these transactions:

o       On July 31, 2000, the Company purchased approximately 231,000 telephone
        access lines and related local exchange assets comprising 106 exchanges
        throughout Arkansas for approximately $842 million in cash.

o       On July 31, 2000, Spectra Communications Group, LLC ("Spectra")
        purchased approximately 127,000 telephone access lines and related local
        exchange assets comprising 107 exchanges throughout Missouri for
        approximately $297 million cash. As of December 31, 2001, the Company
        owns 75.7% of Spectra, which was organized to acquire and operate these
        Missouri properties. At closing, the Company made a preferred equity
        investment in Spectra of approximately $55 million (which represented a
        57.1% interest) and financed substantially all of the remainder of the
        purchase price. In the first quarter of 2001, the Company purchased an
        additional 18.6% interest in Spectra for $47.1 million.

o       On September 29, 2000, the Company purchased approximately 70,500
        telephone access lines and related local exchange assets comprising 42
        exchanges throughout Wisconsin for approximately $197 million in cash.

o       On September 29, 2000, Telephone USA of Wisconsin, LLC ("TelUSA")
        purchased approximately 62,900 telephone access lines and related local
        exchange assets comprising 35 exchanges throughout Wisconsin for
        approximately $172 million in cash. The Company owns 89% of TelUSA,
        which was organized to acquire and operate these Wisconsin properties.
        At closing, the Company made an equity investment in TelUSA of
        approximately $37.8 million and financed substantially all of the
        remainder of the purchase price.

      In August 2000, the Company acquired the assets of CSW Net, Inc., a
regional Internet service provider that offers dial-up and dedicated Internet
access, and web site and domain hosting to more than 14,000 customers in 28
communities in Arkansas.

      In November 1999, the Company acquired the assets of DigiSys, Inc., an
Internet service provider in Kalispell, Montana. DigiSys provides Internet
services to more than 8,600 customers in Montana and operates MontanaWeb, one of
the largest online business directories in the state.

      In October 1999, the Company acquired the non-wireline cellular license to
serve Mississippi RSA #5, which covers 160,000 pops. Mississippi RSA #5
encompasses the Vicksburg and Greenville markets as well as portions of
Interstate Highway 20 between Jackson, Mississippi and Monroe, Louisiana.

      In June 1999, the Company sold all of the operations of its Brownsville
and McAllen, Texas, cellular systems to Western Wireless Corporation for
approximately $96 million cash. The Company received a proportionate share of
the sale proceeds of approximately $45 million after-tax.

      In May 1999, the Company sold substantially all of its Alaska telephone
and wireless operations for approximately $300 million after-tax. In February
2000, the Company sold its interest in Alaska RSA #1 which completed the
Company's divestiture of it Alaska operations.

      In the second quarter of 2001, the Company sold to Leap Wireless
International, Inc. 30 PCS (Personal Communications Service) operating licenses
for an aggregate of $205 million. The Company received approximately $118
million of the purchase price in cash at closing and collected the remainder in
installments through the fourth quarter of 2001.

      The Company continually evaluates the possibility of acquiring additional
telecommunications assets in exchange for cash, securities or both, and at any
given time may be engaged in discussions or negotiations regarding additional
acquisitions. The Company generally does not announce its acquisitions until it
has entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement. Over the past few years,
the number and size of communications properties on the market has increased
substantially. Although the Company's primary focus will continue to be on
acquiring interests that are proximate to its properties or that serve a
customer base large enough for the Company to operate efficiently, other
communications interests may also be acquired and these acquisitions could have
a material impact upon the Company.

      Pending acquisitions. On October 22, 2001, the Company entered into
definitive agreements to purchase from affiliates of Verizon assets comprising
all of Verizon's local telephone operations in Missouri and Alabama. In
exchange, the Company has agreed to pay approximately $2.159 billion in cash,
subject to certain adjustments described below.

      The assets to be purchased will include (i) all telephone access lines
(which numbered approximately 372,000 as of December 31, 2001) and related
property and equipment comprising Verizon's local exchange operations in 98
exchanges in predominantly rural and suburban markets throughout Missouri,
several of which are adjacent to properties currently owned and operated by the
Company, (ii) all telephone access lines (which numbered approximately 304,000
as of December 31, 2001) and related property and equipment comprising Verizon's
local exchange operations in 90 exchanges in predominantly rural markets
throughout Alabama, (iii) Verizon's assets used to provide digital subscriber
line ("DSL") and other high speed data services within the purchased exchanges
in both states and (iv) approximately 2,800 route miles of fiber optic cable
within the purchased exchanges in both states. The acquired assets will not
include Verizon's cellular, PCS, long distance, dial-up Internet, or directory
publishing operations, or rights under various Verizon contracts, including
those relating to customer premise equipment. The Company will not assume any
liabilities of Verizon other than those associated with contracts, employees,
facilities and certain other assets transferred in connection with the
purchases. The purchase price will be adjusted to, among other things, (i)
reimburse Verizon for certain pre-closing costs and (ii) compensate the Company
if Verizon fails to attain certain specified pre-closing capital expenditure
targets. The aggregate effect of these adjustments is not expected to be
material.

      The Company's purchase of the Alabama properties has been approved by the
Alabama Public Service Commission. The Company's purchase of the Missouri
properties is subject to the approval of the Missouri Public Service Commission.
Consummation of each transaction is also subject to, among other things, (i) the
approval of the Federal Communications Commission, (ii) compliance with the
notification and waiting period requirements under the Hart-Scott-Rodino
Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, (iii) the receipt of various third party
consents, including releases from Verizon bondholders terminating liens on the
transferred assets, and (iv) various other customary closing conditions. Neither
purchase is conditioned upon the completion of the other purchase. Under each
definitive agreement, the Company has agreed to pay Verizon 10% of the
transaction consideration if the purchase is not consummated under certain
specified conditions, including the Company's incapacity to finance the
transaction.

      The properties to be acquired are currently subject to price-cap
regulation for interstate purposes, and the Company has no plans to change this.
Because most of the Company's other telephone properties are subject to
rate-of-return regulation, the Company's plans to retain price-cap regulation
for the acquired properties will require it to seek a waiver of the FCC's "all
or nothing" regulation that generally requires a rate-of-return company
acquiring a price-cap company to convert all of its operations to price-cap
regulation. Although the FCC has granted similar waivers to other carriers over
the past couple of years, no assurances can be provided that the FCC will grant
a waiver to the Company. The Company's failure to obtain this waiver would
adversely impact the financial benefits that the Company anticipates receiving
in connection with its purchases of the Verizon properties.

      On February 28, 2002, the Company purchased the fiber network and customer
base of KMC Telecom's operations in Monroe and Shreveport, Louisiana which will
allow the Company to offer broadband services to customers in these markets.

      Other.  As of December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately 6,900
employees, approximately 1,280 of whom were members of 17 different bargaining
units represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the
Communications Workers of America, or the NTS Employee Committee. Relations with
employees continue to be generally good.

      CenturyTel was incorporated under Louisiana law in 1968 to serve as a
holding company for several telephone companies acquired over the previous 15 to
20 years. CenturyTel's principal executive offices are located at 100 CenturyTel
Drive, Monroe, Louisiana 71203 and its telephone number is (318) 388-9000.

                              TELEPHONE OPERATIONS

      According to published sources, the Company is the eighth largest local
exchange telephone company in the United States, based on the approximately 1.8
million access lines it served at December 31, 2001. All of the Company's access
lines are digitally switched. Through its operating telephone subsidiaries, the
Company provides services to predominately rural, suburban and small urban
markets in 21 states. The table below sets forth certain information with
respect to the Company's access lines as of December 31, 2001 and 2000.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                            December 31, 2001                             December 31, 2000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Number of           Percent of                Number of           Percent of
   State                access lines       access lines               access lines       access lines
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                         <C>      <C>         <C>                      <C>      <C>         <C>
Wisconsin                   498,331  (1)         28%                      498,234  (1)         28%
Arkansas                    271,617              15                       278,155              15
Washington                  189,868              11                       189,341              11
Missouri                    130,651  (2)          7                       129,944  (2)          7
Michigan                    114,643               6                       114,325               6
Louisiana                   104,043               6                       103,091               6
Colorado                     97,571               6                        95,509               5
Ohio                         84,636               5                        85,308               5
Oregon                       78,592               4                        79,663               5
Montana                      65,974               4                        65,966               4
Texas                        51,451               3                        51,387               3
Minnesota                    31,110               2                        30,910               2
Tennessee                    27,660               2                        27,781               2
Mississippi                  23,579               1                        23,435               1
New Mexico                    6,396               -                         6,295               -
Idaho                         6,119               -                         6,197               -
Indiana                       5,490               -                         5,425               -
Wyoming                       5,408               -                         5,108               -
Iowa                          2,072               -                         2,048               -
Arizona                       1,937               -                         1,920               -
Nevada                          495               -                           523               -
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          1,797,643             100%                    1,800,565             100%
====================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1) Approximately 61,990 (as of December 31, 2001) of these lines are owned and
    operated by CenturyTel's 89%-owned affiliate.
(2) These lines are owned and operated by CenturyTel's 75.7%-owned affiliate.

<PAGE>
      As indicated in the following table, the Company has generally experienced
growth in its telephone operations over the past several years, a substantial
portion of which was attributable to the July and September 2000 acquisitions of
telephone properties from Verizon, the December 1997 acquisition of PTI, the
acquisitions of other telephone properties and the expansion of services. A
portion of the Company's access line growth was offset by the May 1999 sale of
the Company's Alaska telephone operations.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               Year ended or as of December 31,
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   2001         2000         1999         1998         1997
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                              <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>
Access lines                     1,797,643    1,800,565     1,272,867    1,346,567    1,203,650
   % Residential                        76%          76            75           74           74
   % Business                           24%          24            25           26           26
Operating revenues           $   1,505,733    1,253,969     1,126,112    1,077,343      526,428
Capital expenditures         $     351,010      275,523       233,512      223,190      115,854
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Future growth in telephone operations is expected to be derived from (i)
acquiring additional telephone properties, (ii) providing service to new
customers, (iii) increasing network usage and (iv) providing additional services
made possible by advances in technology, improvements in the Company's
infrastructure and changes in regulation. For information on developing
competitive trends, see "-Regulation and Competition."

Services

      The Company's local exchange telephone subsidiaries derive revenue from
providing (i) local telephone services, (ii) network access services and (iii)
other related services. The following table reflects the percentage of telephone
operating revenues derived from these respective services:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       2001              2000             1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                     <C>               <C>              <C>
Local service                           32.6%             32.6             31.4
Network access                          58.1              58.0             58.1
Other                                    9.3               9.4             10.5
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       100.0%            100.0            100.0
===============================================================================
</TABLE>

      Local service. Local service revenues are derived from the provision of
local exchange telephone services in the Company's service areas. Access lines
declined 0.2% in 2001. Internal access line growth during 2000 and 1999 was 2.8%
and 4.8%, respectively. The decline in internal access line growth during 2001
was substantially due to the slowing growth in the Company's service areas due
to general economic conditions and disconnecting service to customers for
non-payment.

      The installation of digital switches, high-speed data circuits and related
software has been an important component of the Company's growth strategy
because it allows the Company to offer enhanced voice services (such as call
forwarding, conference calling, caller identification, selective call ringing
and call waiting) and data services and to thereby increase utilization of
existing access lines. In 2001 the Company continued to expand its list of
premium services (such as voice mail) offered in certain service areas and
aggressively marketed these services.

      Network access. Network access revenues primarily relate to services
provided by the Company to long distance carriers, wireless carriers and other
customers in connection with the use of the Company's facilities to originate
and terminate interstate and intrastate long distance telephone calls. Certain
of the Company's interstate network access revenues are based on tariffed access
charges prescribed by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"); the
remainder of such revenues are derived under revenue sharing arrangements with
other local exchange carriers ("LECs") administered by the National Exchange
Carrier Association ("NECA"), a quasi-governmental non-profit organization
formed by the FCC in 1983 for such purposes.

      Certain of the Company's intrastate network access revenues are derived
through access charges billed by the Company to intrastate long distance
carriers and other LEC customers. Such intrastate network access charges are
based on tariffed access charges, which are subject to state regulatory
commission approval. Additionally, certain of the Company's intrastate network
access revenues, along with intrastate and intra-LATA (Local Access and
Transport Areas) long distance revenues, are derived through revenue sharing
arrangements with other LECs.

      The Company is installing fiber optic cable in certain of its high traffic
routes and provides alternative routing of telephone service over fiber optic
cable networks in several strategic operating areas. At December 31, 2001, the
Company's telephone subsidiaries had over 10,900 miles of fiber optic cable in
use.

      Other. Other revenues include revenues related to (i) leasing, selling,
installing, maintaining and repairing customer premise telecommunications
equipment and wiring, (ii) providing billing and collection services for long
distance companies and (iii) participating in the publication of local
directories.

      Certain large communications companies for which the Company currently
provides billing and collection services continue to indicate their desire to
reduce their billing and collection expenses, which has resulted and may
continue to result in future reductions of the Company's billing and collection
revenues.

      For further information on the regulation of the Company's revenues, see
"-Regulation and Competition."

Federal Financing Programs

      Certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries receive long-term
financing from the Rural Utilities Service ("RUS") or the Rural Telephone Bank
("RTB"). The RUS has made long-term loans to telephone companies since 1949 for
the purpose of improving telephone service in rural areas. The RUS continues to
make new loans at interest rates that range from 5% to 7% based on borrower
qualifications and the cost of funds to the United States government. The RTB,
established in 1971, makes long-term loans at interest rates based on its
average cost of funds as determined by statutory formula (which ranged from 5.0%
to 6.0% for the RTB's fiscal year ended September 30, 2001), and in some cases
makes loans concurrently with RUS loans. Much of the Company's telephone plant
is pledged or mortgaged to secure obligations of the Company's telephone
subsidiaries to the RUS and RTB. The Company's telephone subsidiaries that have
borrowed from government agencies generally may not loan or advance any funds to
CenturyTel, but may pay dividends if certain financial covenants are met.

      For additional information regarding the Company's financing, see the
Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 herein.

Regulation and Competition

      Traditionally, LECs have operated as regulated monopolies. Consequently,
most of the Company's telephone operations have traditionally been regulated
extensively by various state regulatory agencies (generally called public
service commissions or public utility commissions) and by the FCC. As discussed
in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the
"1996 Act"), coupled with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and
technological changes, has fundamentally altered the telephone industry by
reducing the regulation of LECs and permitting competition in each segment of
the telephone industry. CenturyTel anticipates that these trends towards reduced
regulation and increased competition will continue.

      State regulation. The local service rates and intrastate access charges of
substantially all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are regulated by state
regulatory commissions. Most of such commissions have traditionally regulated
pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focuses on authorized levels of
earnings by LECs. Most of these commissions also (i) regulate the purchase and
sale of LECs, (ii) prescribe depreciation rates and certain accounting
procedures and (iii) regulate various other matters, including certain service
standards and operating procedures.

      In recent years, state legislatures and regulatory commissions in most of
the states in which the Company has substantial operations have either reduced
the regulation of LECs or have announced their intention to do so, and it is
expected that this trend will continue. Wisconsin, Louisiana, Arkansas and
several other states have implemented laws or rulings which require or permit
LECs to opt out of rate of return regulation in exchange for agreeing to
alternative forms of regulation which typically permit the LEC greater freedom
to establish local service rates in exchange for agreeing not to charge rates in
excess of specified caps. As discussed further below, most of the Company's
Wisconsin telephone subsidiaries, with the exception of the properties acquired
in mid-2000, have agreed to be governed by alternative regulation plans, and the
Company continues to explore its options for similar treatment in other states.
Other states have imposed new regulatory models that do not rely on "rate of
return" regulation. The Company believes that reduced regulatory oversight of
certain of the Company's telephone operations may allow the Company to offer new
and competitive services faster than under the traditional regulatory process.
For a discussion of legislative, regulatory and technological changes that have
introduced competition into the local exchange industry, see "-Developments
Affecting Competition."

      A portion of the Company's telephone operations in Wisconsin have been
regulated under an alternative regulation plan since June 1996. In late 1999 and
early 2000, most of the Company's remaining Wisconsin telephone subsidiaries
agreed to be subject to alternative regulation plans. The Company's Wisconsin
access lines acquired in mid-2000 continue to be regulated under "rate of
return" regulation. Each of these alternative regulation plans has a five-year
term and permits the Company to adjust local rates within specified parameters
if certain quality-of-service and infrastructure-development commitments are
met. These plans also include initiatives designed to promote competition.
Although the Company believes that these plans will be favorable in the future
as additional revenue streams are added and cost efficiencies are obtained,
there can be no assurance that current or future alternative regulation plans
will not reduce revenue growth in the future.

      Since 1997 all of the Company's LECs operating in Louisiana have been
regulated under a Consumer Price Protection Plan (the "Louisiana Plan"). This
form of regulation focuses on price and quality of service. Under the Louisiana
Plan, the Company's Louisiana LECs' local rates and access rates have remained
unchanged since 1997, but may currently be increased within certain parameters.
The Company's Louisiana LECs have the option to propose a new plan at any time
if the Louisiana Public Service Commission ("LPSC") determines that (i)
effective competition exists or (ii) unforeseen events threaten the LEC's
ability to provide adequate service or impair its financial health.

      The Company's Arkansas LECs, excluding the recently-acquired Verizon
properties, are regulated under an alternative regulation plan adopted in 1997,
which initially froze access rates for three years, after which time such rates
can be adjusted based on an inflation-based factor. Local service rates can be
adjusted without commission approval; however, such rates are subject to
commission review if certain petition criteria are met. In addition, since 1995
the Company's Michigan LECs have been subject to a regulatory structure that
focuses on price and quality of service as opposed to traditional rate of return
regulation, and which relies more on existing federal and state law regarding
antitrust consumer protection and fair trade to provide safeguards for
competition and consumers.

      Notwithstanding the movement towards deregulation, LECs operating
approximately 61% of the Company's total access lines continue to be subject to
"rate of return" regulation. These LECs remain subject to the powers of state
regulatory commissions to conduct earnings reviews and adjust service rates,
either of which could lead to revenue reductions.

      FCC regulation. The FCC regulates the interstate services provided by the
Company's telephone subsidiaries primarily by regulating the interstate access
charges that are billed to long distance companies and other LECs by the Company
for use of its local network in connection with the origination and termination
of interstate telephone calls. Additionally, the FCC has prescribed certain
rules and regulations for telephone companies, including regulations regarding
the use of radio frequencies; a uniform system of accounts; and rules regarding
the separation of costs between jurisdictions and, ultimately, between
interstate services.

      Effective January 1, 1991, the FCC adopted price-cap regulation relating
to interstate access rates for the Regional Bell Operating Companies. All other
LECs may elect to be subject to price-cap regulation. Under price-cap
regulation, limits imposed on a company's interstate rates are adjusted
periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes in
certain non-controllable costs. In May 1993 the FCC adopted an optional
incentive regulatory plan for LECs not subject to price-cap regulation. A LEC
electing the optional incentive regulatory plan would, among other things, file
tariffs based primarily on historical costs and not be allowed to participate in
the relevant NECA pooling arrangements. The Company has not elected price-cap
regulation or the optional incentive regulatory plan for its incumbent
operations (but does propose to operate the access lines that it has agreed to
purchase from Verizon under price-cap regulation). Subject to certain
exceptions, if the Company were to elect price-cap regulation or the optional
incentive regulatory plan for its incumbent operations, either election would
have to be applicable to all of the Company's telephone subsidiaries based on
current regulations.

      On October 11, 2001, the FCC modified its interstate access charge rules
and universal service support system for rate of return local exchange carriers.
This order, among other things, (i) increases the caps on the subscriber line
charges ("SLC") to the levels paid by most subscribers nationwide; (ii) allows
limited SLC deaveraging, which will enhance the competitiveness of rate of
return carriers by giving them pricing flexibility; (iii) lowers per minute
rates collected for federal access charges; (iv) creates a new explicit
universal service support mechanism that will replace other implicit support
mechanisms in a manner designed to ensure that rate structure changes do not
affect the overall recovery of interstate access costs by rate of return
carriers serving high cost areas and (v) terminates the proceeding on the
represcription of the authorized rate of return for rate of return LECs, which
will remain at 11.25%. The Company expects the order to be implemented on a
revenue neutral basis for interstate purposes. Other proposals submitted to the
FCC by the Multi-Association Group representing rural carriers were rejected or
deferred for additional comment.

      The FCC is seeking comment on a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
regarding developing an appropriate federal incentive plan for rate of return
LECs. The Company is actively monitoring this proceeding and will provide
comments to the FCC on major policy issues.

      High-cost support funds, revenue sharing arrangements and related matters.
A significant number of the Company's telephone subsidiaries recover a portion
of their costs under federal and state cost recovery mechanisms that
traditionally have allowed LECs serving small communities and rural areas to
provide communications services reasonably comparable to those available in
urban areas and at reasonably comparable prices.

      As mandated by the 1996 Act, in May 2001 the FCC modified its existing
universal service support mechanism for rural telephone companies. The FCC
adopted an interim mechanism for a five-year period, effective July 1, 2001,
based on embedded, or historical, costs that will provide predictable levels of
support to rural local exchange carriers, including substantially all of the
Company's local exchange carriers. The Company estimates (based on current
operations, the current nationwide average cost per loop and other factors) that
such ruling may increase the Company's level of universal service support
receipts by approximately $7 million on an annualized basis compared to previous
levels. During 2001 and 2000 the Company's telephone subsidiaries received
$168.7 million and $146.4 million, respectively (which included $21.6 million
and $8.3 million, respectively, related to the Company's Verizon operations
acquired in 2000) from the federal Universal Service Fund, representing 8.0% and
7.9%, respectively, of the Company's consolidated revenues for 2001 and 2000. In
addition, the Company's telephone subsidiaries received $31.5 million and $30.7
million in 2001 and 2000, respectively, from intrastate support funds.

      In 1997, the FCC also established new programs to provide discounted
telecommunications services annually to schools, libraries and rural health care
providers. All communications carriers providing interstate telecommunications
services, including the Company's LECs and its cellular and long distance
operations, are required to contribute to these programs. Prior to May 2001, the
Company's LECs recovered their funding contributions in their rates for
interstate services. Subsequent to May 2001, in accordance with a 2001 FCC
order, such contributions are not recovered through access charges but instead
are charged as an explicit item on customer's bills. The Company's contribution
by its cellular and long distance operations, which is passed on to its
customers, was approximately $5.0 million in 2001 and $3.7 million in 2000.

      Some of the Company's telephone subsidiaries operate in states where
traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under
evaluation or have been modified. See "- State Regulation." There can be no
assurance that these states will continue to provide for cost recovery at
current levels.

      Substantially all of the Company's LECs concur with the common line tariff
and certain of the Company's LECs concur with the traffic sensitive tariffs
filed by the NECA; such LECs participate in the access revenue sharing
arrangements administered by the NECA for interstate services. All of the
intrastate network access revenues of the Company's LECs are based on access
charges, cost separation studies or special settlement arrangements. See "-
Services."

      Certain long distance carriers continue to request that certain of the
Company's LECs reduce intrastate access tariffed rates. Long distance carriers
have also aggressively pursued regulatory or legislative changes that would
reduce access rates. Although such changes have not materially affected access
revenues to date, there is no assurance that these requests or initiatives will
not result in decreased access revenues in the future.

      Developments affecting competition. The communications industry continues
to undergo fundamental changes which are likely to significantly impact the
future operations and financial performance of all communications companies.
Primarily as a result of legislative and regulatory initiatives and
technological changes, competition has been introduced and encouraged in each
sector of the telephone industry, including, most recently, the local exchange
sector. As a result, the number of companies offering competitive services has
increased substantially.

      As indicated above, in February 1996 Congress enacted the 1996 Act, which
obligates primarily the Regional Bell Operating Companies to permit competitors
to interconnect their facilities to the LEC's network and to take various other
steps that are designed to promote competition. The 1996 Act imposes several
duties on a LEC if it receives a specific request from another entity which
seeks to connect with or provide services using the LEC's network. In addition,
each incumbent LEC is obligated to (i) negotiate interconnection agreements in
good faith, (ii) provide "unbundled" access to all aspects of the LEC's network,
(iii) offer resale of its telecommunications services at wholesale rates and
(iv) permit competitors to collocate their physical plant on the LEC's property,
or provide virtual collocation if physical collocation is not practicable.

      Under the 1996 Act's rural telephone company exemption, most of the
Company's telephone subsidiaries (except for the access lines most recently
acquired from Ameritech in 1998 and Verizon in 2000) are exempt from certain of
these interconnection requirements unless and until the appropriate state
regulatory commission overrides the exemption upon receipt from a competitor of
a bona fide request meeting certain criteria. In mid-2000, a federal appellate
court overturned portions of the FCC's 1996 interconnection order that sought to
place the burden of defending this exemption on rural LECs and ruled that
competitors had the burden of proof in removing the rural exemption. States are
permitted to adopt laws or regulations that provide for greater competition than
is mandated under the 1996 Act. Although portions of the FCC's August 1996
interconnection order have survived judicial challenge, the FCC has not
completed its interconnection rulemaking and certain litigation continues in the
area of pricing unbundled network elements. Management believes that competition
in its telephone service areas has increased and will continue to increase as a
result of the 1996 Act and additional FCC interpretations related to
interconnection and the portability of universal service support. While
competition through use of the Company's network is still limited in most of its
markets, the Company will continue to witness competition from a variety of
facilities-based service providers, including wireless and cable companies.

      In addition to these changes in federal regulation, all of the 21 states
in which the Company provides telephone services have taken legislative or
regulatory steps to further introduce competition into the LEC business.

      As a result of these regulatory developments, incumbent LECs ("ILECs")
increasingly face competition from competitive local exchange carriers
("CLECs"), particularly in high population areas. CLECs provide competing
services through reselling the ILECs' local services, through use of the ILECs'
unbundled network elements or through their own facilities. The number of
companies which have requested authorization to provide local exchange service
in the Company's service areas has increased substantially in recent years,
especially in the Company's Verizon markets acquired in 2000, and it is
anticipated that similar action may be taken by others in the future.

      In addition to facing direct competition from CLECs, ILECs increasingly
face competition from alternate communication systems constructed by long
distance carriers, large customers or alternative access vendors. These systems,
which have become more prevalent as a result of the 1996 Act, are capable of
originating or terminating calls without use of the ILECs' networks. Customers
may also use wireless or Internet voice service to bypass ILECs' switching
services. In addition, technological and regulatory developments have increased
the feasibility of competing services offered by cable television companies,
several of whom are pursuing these opportunities. Other potential sources of
competition include noncarrier systems that are capable of bypassing ILECs'
local networks, either partially or completely, through substitution of special
access for switched access or through concentration of telecommunications
traffic on a few of the ILECs' access lines. The Company anticipates that all
these trends will continue and lead to increased competition with the Company's
LECs.

      Historically, wireless telephone services have complemented traditional
LEC services. However, existing and emerging wireless technologies increasingly
compete with LEC services. The Company anticipates this trend will continue,
particularly if wireless service rates continue to decline. Technological and
regulatory developments in cellular telephone, personal communications services,
digital microwave, coaxial cable, fiber optics, local multipoint distribution
services and other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further
permit the development of alternatives to traditional landline services. For
further information on certain of these developments, see "Wireless Operations -
Regulation and Competition."

      Historically, ILECs earned all or substantially all of the toll revenues
associated with intra-LATA long distance calls. Principally as a result of
recent state regulatory changes, companies offering competing toll services have
emerged in the Company's local exchange markets.

      To the extent that the telephone industry increasingly experiences
competition, the size and resources of each respective competitor may
increasingly influence its prospects. Many companies currently providing or
planning to provide competitive communication services have substantially
greater financial and marketing resources than the Company, and several are not
subject to the same regulatory constraints as the Company.

      The Company anticipates that the traditional operations of LECs will
continue to be impacted by continued technological developments as well as
legislative and regulatory initiatives affecting the ability of LECs to provide
new services and the capability of long distance companies, CLECs, wireless
companies, cable television companies and others to provide competitive LEC
services. Competition relating to services traditionally provided solely by LECs
has thus far affected large urban areas to a greater extent than rural, suburban
and small urban areas such as those in which the Company operates. The Company
intends to actively monitor these developments, to observe the effect of
emerging competitive trends in initial competitive markets and to continue to
evaluate new business opportunities that may arise out of future technological,
legislative and regulatory developments.

      The Company anticipates that regulatory changes and competitive pressures
may result in future revenue reductions in its telephone operations. However,
the Company anticipates that such reductions may be minimized by increases in
revenues attributable to the continued demand for enhanced services and new
product offerings. While the Company expects its telephone revenues to continue
to grow, its internal telephone revenue growth rate has slowed in recent years
and may continue to slow during upcoming periods.

                               WIRELESS OPERATIONS

      At December 31, 2001, the Company had access to approximately 9.8 million
cellular pops, of which 65% were applicable to MSAs and 35% were RSA pops.
According to data derived from published sources, the Company is the eighth
largest cellular telephone company in the United States based on the Company's
9.8 million pops.

Cellular Industry

      The cellular telephone industry has been in existence for over 17 years in
the United States. The industry has grown significantly during this period and
cellular service is now available in substantially all areas of the United
States. According to the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, at
June 30, 2001 there were estimated to be over 118 million wireless customers
across the United States.

      Initially, all radio transmissions of cellular systems were conducted on
an analog basis. Technological developments involving the application of digital
radio technology offer certain advantages over analog technologies, including
expanding the capacity of mobile communications systems, improving voice
clarity, permitting the introduction of new services, and making such systems
more secure. Digital service is now available in 100% of the Company's MSA
markets and approximately 65% of its RSA markets. Approximately 33% of the
Company's cellular customers currently subscribe to digital services. As
discussed further below, several large wireless carriers have taken initial
steps to develop "next generation" technologies capable of providing enhanced
digital wireless services. For additional information, see "-Regulation and
Competition-Developments Affecting Wireless Competition."

Construction and Maintenance

      The construction and maintenance of cellular systems is capital intensive.
Although the Company's MSA and RSA systems have been operational for many years,
the Company has continued to add cell sites to increase coverage, provide
additional capacity, and improve the quality of these systems. In 2001 the
Company completed construction of 72 cell sites in its majority-owned markets.
At December 31, 2001, the Company operated 739 cell sites in its majority-owned
markets.

      Over the past several years the Company has upgraded most of its wireless
systems to be capable of providing digital service under the Time Division
Multiple Access ("TDMA") standard, which is one of the four primary digital
cellular standards currently used worldwide. The Company intends to continue
installing digital voice transmission facilities in other markets in 2002. See
"-Regulation and Competition-Developments Affecting Wireless Competition."
Capital expenditures related to majority-owned and operated wireless systems
totaled approximately $71.2 million in 2001. Such capital expenditures for 2002
are anticipated to be approximately $65 million.

Strategy

      The Company's business development strategy for its wireless operations is
to secure operating control of service areas that are geographically clustered.
Clustered systems aid the Company's marketing efforts and provide various
operating and service advantages. Approximately 47% of the Company's customers
are in a single, contiguous cluster of eight MSAs and nine RSAs in Michigan;
another 25% are in a cluster of five MSAs and seven RSAs in northern and central
Louisiana, southern Arkansas and eastern Texas. See "-The Company's Cellular
Interests."

      The Company has also traditionally targeted roaming service revenues,
which are derived from calls made in one of the Company's service areas by
customers of other cellular carriers from other service areas. In exchange for
providing roaming service to customers of other carriers, the Company has
traditionally charged premium rates to most of these other carriers, who then
frequently pass on some or all of these premium rates to their own customers.
The Company's Michigan, Louisiana and Mississippi cellular properties provide
service to various interstate highway corridors. As indicated elsewhere in Items
1 and 7 of this Report, the Company has increasingly received pressure from
other cellular operators to reduce substantially its roaming rates. See
"-Services, Customers and System Usage."

Marketing

      The Company markets its wireless services through several distribution
channels, including its direct sales force, retail outlets owned by the Company
and independent agents. All sales employees and certain independent agents
solicit customers exclusively for the Company. Company sales employees are
compensated by salary and commission and independent sales agents are paid
commissions. The Company advertises its services through various means,
including direct mail, billboard, magazine, radio, television and newspaper
advertisements.

      The sales and marketing costs of obtaining new subscribers include
advertising and a direct expense applicable to most new subscribers, either in
the form of a commission payment to an agent or an incentive payment to a direct
sales employee. In addition, the Company discounts the cost of cellular
telephone equipment sold to its customers, and periodically runs promotions
which waive certain fees or provide some amount of free service to new
subscribers. The average cost of acquiring each new customer ($276 in 2001)
remains one of the larger expenses in conducting the Company's wireless
operations. In recent years, the Company has sought to lower this average cost
by focusing more on its direct distribution channels. The Company opened its
first retail outlet in 1994, and currently operates 130 such outlets. During
2001, approximately 54% of new cellular customers were added through direct
distribution channels, up from 37% during 1996.

      Because most of the Company's cellular markets are located in rural,
suburban or small urban areas, the Company believes that many of its customers
typically require only local or regional services. The Company lacks the
facilities and national brand name necessary to compete effectively for business
customers requiring nationwide services, and the Company does not target these
customers in its marketing campaigns. See "- Regulation and Competition."

Services, Customers and System Usage

      There are a number of different types of cellular telephones, all of which
are currently compatible with cellular systems nationwide. The Company offers a
full range of vehicle-mounted, transportable, and portable cellular telephones.
The Company typically purchases cellular phones in bulk, and typically resells
them at a loss to meet competition or to stimulate sales by reducing the cost of
becoming a cellular customer.

      The Company charges its subscribers for access to its systems, for minutes
of use and for enhanced services, such as voice mail. A subscriber may purchase
certain of these services separately or may purchase rate plans which bundle
these services in different ways and are designed to fit different customer
requirements. While the Company historically has typically charged its customers
separately for custom-calling features, air time in excess of the packaged
amount, and toll calls, it currently offers plans which include features such as
unlimited toll calls and unlimited nights and weekend calling in certain calling
areas. Custom-calling features provided by the Company include call-forwarding,
call-waiting, caller ID, three-way calling and no-answer transfer. The Company
also offers voice message service in certain markets and short text messaging in
markets with digital service.

      Cellular customers come from a wide range of occupations and typically
include a large proportion of individuals who work outside of their office. In
recent years, the individual consumer market has generated a majority of new
customer additions. The Company's average monthly revenue (excluding equipment
sales) per customer declined to $46 in 2001 from $49 in 2000 and $53 in 1999.
Such average revenue per customer is expected to further decline (i) as
competitive pressures (including those causing further reductions in service
rates) from current and future wireless communications providers intensify and
(ii) as the Company continues to receive pressure from other cellular operators
to reduce roaming rates. See "-Regulation and Competition."

      The Company has entered into "roaming agreements" nationwide with
operators of other cellular systems that permit each company's respective
customers to place or receive calls outside of their home market area. The
charge to a non-Company customer for this service has traditionally been at
premium rates, and is billed by the Company to the customer's service provider,
which then bills the customer. In most instances, based on competitive factors
and financial considerations, the Company charges an amount to its customers
that is equal to or lower than the amount actually charged by the cellular
carrier providing the roaming service. Within the past few years, several large
nationwide cellular providers have introduced rate plans that offer roaming
coverage (provided through other carriers) at the same rate as service within
the customer's home market area. To defray the cost of these plans, these
providers have exerted substantial pressure on other cellular providers,
including the Company, to reduce their roaming fees. The Company anticipates
that competitive factors and industry consolidation will continue to place
further pressure on charging premium roaming rates. For additional information
on roaming revenue, see "-Strategy."

      Churn rate (the average percentage of cellular customers that terminate
service each month) is an industry-wide concern. A significant portion of the
churn in the Company's markets is due to the Company disconnecting service to
cellular customers for nonpayment of their bills. In addition, the Company faces
substantial competition from other wireless providers, including PCS providers.
The Company's average monthly churn rate, excluding prepaid customers, in its
majority-owned and operated markets was 2.33% in 2001 and 1.95% in 2000. The
Company is attempting to lower its churn rate by increasing its proactive
customer service efforts and implementing additional customer retention
programs.

      Except for 2001, the Company's cellular subsidiaries have traditionally
experienced strong subscriber growth in the fourth quarter, primarily due to
holiday season sales.

<PAGE>

      The following table summarizes, among other things, certain information
about the Company's customers and market penetration:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Year ended or at December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 2001             2000            1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                           <C>             <C>              <C>
Majority-owned and operated MSA and RSA systems (Note 1):
      Cellular systems operated                                      41              41               42
      Cell sites                                                    739             743              711
      Population of systems operated (Note 2)                 8,435,303       8,219,411        8,267,140
      Customers (Note 3):
         At beginning of period                                 751,200         707,486          624,290
         Gross units added internally                           316,353         339,247          240,084
         Disconnects                                            270,213         284,880          146,325
         Net units added internally                              46,140          54,367           93,759
         Effect of property dispositions                              -         (10,653)         (10,563)
         At end of period                                       797,340         751,200          707,486
      Market penetration at end of period (Note 4)                  9.5%            9.1              8.6
      Churn rate (Note 5)                                          2.33%           1.95             2.02

Average monthly revenue per customer
   (excluding equipment sales)                             $         46              49               53
Construction expenditures (in thousands)                   $     71,212          58,468           58,760
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

For additional information, see "- The Company's Wireless Interests."

Notes:

1.    Represents the number of systems in which the Company owned at least a
      50% interest. The revenues and expenses of these markets, all of which
      are operated by the Company, are included in the Company's consolidated
      operating revenues and operating expenses.
2.    Based on independent third-party population estimates for each
      respective year.
3.    Represents the approximate number of revenue-generating cellular
      telephones served by the cellular systems referred to in note 1.
4.    Computed by dividing the number of customers at the end of the period by
      the total population of systems referred to in note 1.
5.    Represents the average percentage of customers, excluding prepaid
      customers, that were disconnected per month.

The Company's Wireless Interests

     Cellular interests. The Company obtained the right to provide cellular
service through (i) the FCC's licensing process described below, under which it
received interests in wireline licenses, and (ii) its acquisition program, under
which it has acquired interests in both wireline and non-wireline licenses. The
table below sets forth certain information with respect to the interests in
cellular systems that the Company owned as of December 31, 2001:

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    The
                                  2001                           Company's
                               population       Ownership         pops at
                                (Note 1)       percentage        12/31/01
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                           <C>            <C>               <C>
Majority-owned and operated MSAs

Pine Bluff, AR                   84,238         100.00%           84,238
Texarkana, AR/TX                144,094          89.00           128,244
Alexandria, LA                  146,435         100.00           146,435
Monroe, LA                      147,664          87.00           128,468
Shreveport, LA                  393,621          87.00           342,450
Battle Creek, MI                195,425          97.00           189,562
Benton Harbor, MI               162,564          97.00           157,687
Grand Rapids, MI                821,985          97.00           797,325
Jackson, MI                     159,831          97.00           155,036
Kalamazoo, MI                   317,578          97.00           308,051
Lansing-E. Lansing, MI          510,828          97.00           495,503
Muskegon, MI                    198,258          97.00           192,310
Saginaw-Bay City-
  Midland, MI                   403,446          91.70           369,960
Biloxi-Gulfport, MS (Note 4)    249,177          96.45           240,334
Jackson, MS (Note 4)            444,847          90.22           401,333
Pascagoula, MS (Note 4)         132,646          89.20           118,324
Appleton-Oshkosh-
  Neenah, WI                    525,133          98.85           519,082
Eau Claire, WI                  149,160          55.50            82,784
LaCrosse, WI                    107,813          95.00           102,422
                             ----------                       ----------
                              5,294,743                        4,959,548
                             ----------                       ----------

Minority-owned MSAs (Note 2)

Little Rock, AR                 589,276          36.00%          212,139
Lafayette, LA                   274,869          49.00           134,686
Detroit, MI                   4,797,951           3.20           153,438
Flint, MI                       508,544           3.20            16,263
Rochester, MN                   125,624           2.81             3,530
Austin, TX                    1,188,290          35.00           415,902
Dallas-Ft. Worth, TX          5,209,993           0.50            26,050
Sherman-Denison, TX             111,766           0.50               559
Madison, WI                     743,317           9.78            72,689
Milwaukee, WI                 2,046,433          17.96           367,601
                            -----------                       ----------
                             15,596,063                        1,402,857
                            -----------                       ----------
   Total MSAs                20,890,806                        6,362,405
                            -----------                       ----------

</TABLE>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    The
                                  2001                          Company's
                               population     Ownership           pops at
                                (Note 1)      percentage         12/31/01
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                          <C>                              <C>
Operated RSAs

Arkansas 2                       92,157          82.00            75,569
Arkansas 3                      106,308          82.00            87,173
Arkansas 11                      67,763          89.00            60,309
Arkansas 12                     189,169          80.00           151,335
Louisiana 1                     113,463          87.00            98,713
Louisiana 2                     115,297          87.00           100,308
Louisiana 3 B2                   97,933          87.00            85,202
Louisiana 4                      73,009         100.00            73,009
Michigan 1                      203,027         100.00           203,027
Michigan 2                      115,455         100.00           115,455
Michigan 3                      177,294          48.63            86,217
Michigan 4                      142,573         100.00           142,573
Michigan 5                      171,415          48.63            83,358
Michigan 6                      150,589          98.00           147,577
Michigan 7                      258,248          56.07           144,801
Michigan 8                      106,803          97.00           103,599
Michigan 9                      306,229          43.38           132,842
Mississippi 2  (Note 3)         260,887         100.00           260,887
Mississippi 5  (Note 3)         160,771         100.00           160,771
Mississippi 6  (Note 3)         189,816         100.00           189,816
Mississippi 7  (Note 3)         189,640         100.00           189,640
Texas 7 B6                       57,827          89.00            51,466
Wisconsin 1                     119,161          42.21            50,295
Wisconsin 2                      86,462          99.00            85,597
Wisconsin 6                     121,350          57.14            69,343
Wisconsin 7                     297,526          22.70            67,544
Wisconsin 8                     242,013          84.00           203,291
                             ----------                       ----------
                              4,212,185                        3,219,717
                              ---------                        ---------

                                                                    The
                                  2001                          Company's
                               population     Ownership           pops at
                                (Note 1)      percentage         12/31/01
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Non-operated RSAs  (Note 2)

Iowa 6                          158,681           2.81             4,459
Iowa 13                          66,055           2.81             1,856
Iowa 14                         105,808           2.81             2,973
Iowa 15                          84,042           2.81             2,362
Iowa 16                         103,444           2.81             2,907
Michigan 10                     139,533          26.00            36,279
Minnesota 7                     174,808           2.81             4,912
Minnesota 8                      67,698           2.81             1,902
Minnesota 9                     133,478           2.81             3,751
Minnesota 10                    241,116           2.81             6,775
Minnesota 11                    213,810           2.81             6,008
Washington 5                     65,020           8.47             5,508
Washington 8                    139,467           7.36            10,259
Wisconsin 3                     144,095          42.86            61,755
Wisconsin 4                     125,177          25.00            31,294
Wisconsin 5                      98,314           2.81             2,763
Wisconsin 10                    131,491          22.50            29,586
                           ------------                       ----------
                              2,192,037                          215,349
                           ------------                       ----------
   Total RSAs                 6,404,222                        3,435,066
                           ------------                       ----------
                             27,295,028                        9,797,471
                           ============                       ==========
</TABLE>

Notes:

1.       Based on 2001 independent third-party population estimates.
2.       Markets not operated by the Company.
3.       Represents a non-wireline interest.  See "Regulation and Competition -
         Cellular licensing and regulation."

      Competitors.  The number of competitors in each of the Company's operated
MSA and RSA markets range from one to eight. Such competitors include, but are
not limited to, Cingular, AT&T, Verizon, Centennial, Sprint, Nextel, Voicestream
and U. S. Cellular.

      Other wireless interests. The Company owned at December 31, 2001 (i)
licenses to provide personal communications services ("PCS") representing
approximately 3.0 million pops and (ii) 36 local multi-point distribution system
("LMDS") licenses representing approximately 12.6 million pops. The Company
intends to use a portion of its LMDS licenses in connection with its new
competitive local exchange business described below under "Other Operations."
The Company is currently evaluating its options with respect to the remainder of
these licenses, some of which will lapse if not used by the Company by certain
specified dates.

<PAGE>

Operations

      A substantial number of the cellular systems in MSAs operated by the
Company are owned by limited partnerships in which the Company is a general
partner ("MSA Partnerships"). Most of these partnerships are governed by
partnership agreements with similar terms, including, among other things,
customary provisions concerning capital contributions, sharing of profits and
losses, and dissolution and termination of the partnership. Most of these
partnership agreements vest complete operational control of the partnership with
the general partner. The general partner typically has the power to manage,
supervise and conduct the affairs of the partnership, make all decisions
appropriate in connection with the business purposes of the partnership, and
incur obligations and execute agreements on behalf of the partnership. The
general partner also may make decisions regarding the time and amount of cash
contributions and distributions, and the nature, timing and extent of
construction, without the consent of the other partners. The Company owns more
than 50% of all of the MSA Partnerships that it operates.

      A substantial number of the cellular systems in RSAs operated by the
Company are also owned by limited or general partnerships in which the Company
is either the general or managing partner (the "RSA Partnerships"). These
partnerships are governed by partnership agreements with varying terms and
provisions. In many of these partnerships, the noncontrolling partners have the
right to vote on major issues such as the annual budget and system design. In a
few of these partnerships, the Company's management position is for a limited
term (similar to a management contract) and the other partners in the
partnership have the right to change managers, with or without cause. The
Company owns less than 50% of some of the RSA Partnerships that it operates.

      The partnership agreements for both the MSA Partnerships and RSA
Partnerships generally contain provisions granting all partners a right of first
refusal in the event a partner desires to transfer a partnership interest. This
restriction on transfer can under certain circumstances make these partnership
interests more difficult to sell to a third party.

Revenue

      The following table reflects the major revenue categories for the
Company's wireless operations as a percentage of wireless operating revenues in
2001, 2000 and 1999. Virtually all of these revenues were derived from cellular
operations.


<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         2001              2000            1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                     <C>               <C>             <C>
Access fees and toll revenues            76.9%             74.2            72.2
Roaming                                  20.6              22.5            25.2
Equipment sales                           2.5               3.3             2.6
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        100.0%            100.0           100.0
===============================================================================
</TABLE>

      For further information on these revenue categories, see "-Services,
Customers and System Usage."

Regulation and Competition

      As discussed below, the FCC and various state public utility commissions
regulate, among other things, the licensing, construction, operation, safety,
interconnection arrangements, sale and acquisition of cellular telephone
systems.

      Competition between providers of wireless communications services in each
market is conducted principally on the basis of price, services and enhancements
offered, the technical quality and coverage of the system, and the quality and
responsiveness of customer service. As discussed below, competition has
intensified in recent years in a substantial number of the Company's markets.
Under applicable law, the Company is required to permit the reselling of its
services. In certain larger markets and in certain market segments, competition
from resellers may be significant. There is also substantial competition for
sales agents. Certain of the Company's competitors have substantially greater
assets and resources than the Company.

      Cellular licensing and regulation. The term "MSA" means a Metropolitan
Statistical Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular operating license. The
term "RSA" means a Rural Service Area for which the FCC has granted a cellular
operating license. During the 1980's and early 1990's, the FCC awarded two
10-year licenses to provide cellular service in each MSA and RSA market.
Initially, one license was reserved for companies offering local telephone
service in the market (the wireline carrier) and one license was available for
firms unaffiliated with the local telephone company (the non-wireline carrier).
Since mid-1986, the FCC has permitted telephone companies or their affiliates to
acquire control of non-wireline licenses in markets in which they do not hold
interests in the wireline license. The FCC has issued a decision that grants a
renewal expectancy during the license renewal period to incumbent licensees that
substantially comply with the terms and conditions of their cellular
authorizations and the FCC's regulations. The licenses for the MSA markets
operated by the Company were initially granted between 1984 and 1987, and
licenses for operated RSAs were initially granted between 1989 and 1991. Thus
far, the Company has received 10-year extensions of all of its licenses that
have become subject to renewal since their original grant dates.

      The completion of an acquisition involving the transfer of control of a
cellular system requires prior FCC approval and, in certain cases, receipt of
other federal and state regulatory approvals. The acquisition of a minority
interest generally does not require FCC approval. Whenever FCC approval is
required, any interested party may file a petition to dismiss or deny the
application for approval of the proposed transfer.

      In recent years, the FCC has also taken steps to (i) require certain
cellular towers and antennas to comply with radio frequency radiation
guidelines, (ii) require cellular carriers to work with public safety or law
enforcement officials to process 911 calls and conduct electronic surveillance,
(iii) enable cellular subscribers to retain, subject to certain limitations,
their existing telephone numbers when they change service providers and (iv)
implement portions of the 1996 Act. These initiatives have increased the cost of
providing cellular services.

      In addition to regulation of these and other matters by the FCC, cellular
systems are subject to certain Federal Aviation Administration tower height
regulations concerning the siting and construction of cellular transmitter
towers and antennas.

      Cellular operators are also subject to state and local regulation in some
instances. Although the FCC has pre-empted the states from exercising
jurisdiction in the areas of licensing, technical standards and market
structure, certain states require cellular operators to be certified. In
addition, some state authorities regulate certain aspects of a cellular
operator's business, including certain aspects of pricing, the resale of long
distance service to its customers, the technical arrangements and charges for
interconnection with the local wireline network, and the transfer of interests
in cellular systems. The siting and construction of the cellular facilities may
also be subject to state or local zoning, land use and other local regulations,
as well as the increasing possibility of local community opposition to new
towers.

      Media and other reports have from time to time suggested that radio
frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations can cause various
health problems, and may interefere with electronic medical devices. These
concerns received increased scrutiny following (i) the June 2000 announcement
that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had agreed to oversee a $1 million
industry-funded long-term study of handset emissions and had recommended that
users of handsets limit the length of their calls pending completion of the
study and (ii) the July 2000 adoption of a policy by the leading industry trade
group requiring handset manufacturers to disclose emission levels. Although some
preliminary research has been undertaken regarding the effects of handset
emissions, no clear conclusion has emerged to date. No assurance can be given
that future research and studies will not demonstrate a link between the radio
frequency emissions of wireless handset and base stations and health problems.
If such a link is demonstrated, the Company cannot provide assurances that
government authorities will not increase regulation of wireless handsets and
base stations or that wireless companies will not be held liable for cost or
damages associated with these concerns. Moreover, these concerns could
materially reduce demand for wireless services, including those offered by the
Company.

      The state of New York and several other local communities nationwide have
enacted laws restricting or prohibiting the use of wireless phones while driving
motor vehicles, and it is likely that more state and local jurisdictions will
adopt similar laws. In addition, some studies have indicated that using wireless
phones while driving may impair drivers' attention. Laws prohibiting or
restricting the use of wireless phones while driving could reduce subscriber
usage. Additionally, concerns over the use of wireless phones while driving
could lead to potential litigation against wireless carriers.

      Developments affecting wireless competition. Competition in the wireless
communications industry has increased substantially in recent years due to
continued and rapid advances in technology, the emergence of several nationwide
service providers and legislative and regulatory changes.

      Several FCC initiatives over the past decade have resulted in the
allocation of additional radio spectrum or the issuance of licenses for emerging
mobile communications technologies that are competitive with the Company's
cellular and telephone operations, including PCS. Although there is no
universally recognized definition of PCS, the term is generally used to refer to
wireless services to be provided by licensees operating in the 1850 MHz to 1990
MHz radio frequency band using microcells and high-capacity digital technology.
In 1996 and early 1997 the FCC auctioned up to six PCS licenses per market. Two
30MHz frequency blocks were awarded for each of the 51 Rand McNally Major
Trading Areas ("MTAs"), while one 30MHz and three 10MHz frequency blocks were
awarded for each of the 493 Rand McNally Basic Trading Areas ("BTAs").
Additional future auctions of radio spectrum will further intensify competition.

      PCS technology permits PCS operators to offer wireless voice, data, image
and multimedia services. The largest PCS providers commenced initial operations
in late 1996 and since then have aggressively expanded their operations. These
providers have initially focused on larger markets, and have generally marketed
PCS as being a competitive service to cellular. Many of these companies have
aggressively competed for customers on the basis of price, which has placed
downward pressure on cellular prices. There is at least one PCS competitor in
each of the Company's operated MSAs and some of its operated RSAs.

      In addition to PCS, current and prospective users of cellular systems may
find their communication needs satisfied by other current and developing
technologies. Several years ago the FCC authorized the licensees of certain
specialized mobile radio service ("SMR") systems (which historically have
generally been used by taxicabs and tow truck operators) to configure their
systems into digital networks that operate in a manner similar to cellular
systems. Such systems are commonly referred to as enhanced specialized mobile
radio service ("ESMR") systems. FCC regulations allow up to two ESMR carriers
per market. The Company believes that ESMR systems are operating in a few of its
cellular markets. One well-established ESMR provider has constructed a
nationwide digital mobile communications system to compete with cellular
systems. Other similar communication services that have the technical capability
to handle wireless telephone calls may provide competition in certain markets,
although these services currently lack the subscriber capacity of cellular
systems. Paging or beeper services that feature text message and data display as
well as tones may be adequate for potential subscribers who do not need to
converse directly with the caller. Mobile satellite systems, in which
transmissions are between mobile units and satellites, may ultimately be
successful in obtaining market share from cellular systems that communicate
directly to land-based stations. Other future technological advances or
regulatory changes (including additional spectrum auctions) may result in other
alternatives to cellular service, thereby creating additional sources of
competition.

      Several large wireless carriers have recently taken one or more of the
following steps that could impact the Company's competitive position:

o       First, several large wireless carriers have merged with other companies
        or formed marketing alliances or joint ventures in order to enhance
        their ability to provide nationwide cellular or PCS service under a
        single brand name. Although the Company believes that many of the
        customers in its smaller markets require only local or regional
        services, the Company believes its wireless operations have been
        negatively impacted by these competitors marketing their nationwide
        services in the Company's markets.

o       Second, several large wireless carriers have taken steps to provide
        wireless data, short messaging and other enhanced "next
        generation" digital wireless services.  In connection therewith,
        several large domestic carriers that currently use the TDMA
        standard have either announced their intention to abandon the TDMA
        standard or have begun to overlay their TDMA systems with
        additional network elements permitting packet data transmissions.
        The Company is evaluating whether the opportunity to derive
        additional revenues from these enhanced services justify the capital
        costs necessary to provide these services. If the Company elects to
        continue to use the TDMA standard or to forego implementation of
        "next generation" technology or services, there can be no assurance
        that the Company will be able to receive support from vendors or to
        compete effectively against companies using different technologies
        or offering more services.

      Although it is uncertain how competing services and emerging "next
generation" technologies will ultimately affect the Company, the Company
anticipates that it will continue to face increased competition in its wireless
markets.

      In August 2001, the Company announced that it is exploring the separation
of its wireless business from its other operations and has been in discussions
with a number of parties who have expressed interest in these operations.

<PAGE>
                                OTHER OPERATIONS

      The Company provides long distance, Internet access, competitive local
exchange services, broadband data, security monitoring, and other communications
and business information services in certain local and regional markets. The
results of these operations, which accounted for 8.2% and 4.0%, respectively, of
the Company's consolidated revenues and operating income during 2001, are
reflected for financial reporting purposes in the "Other operations" section.

      Long distance. In 1996 the Company began marketing long distance service
in all of its equal access telephone operating areas. At December 31, 2001, the
Company provided long distance services to approximately 465,000 customers.
Approximately 76% of the Company's long distance revenues are derived from
service provided to residential customers. Although the Company owns and
operates switches in LaCrosse, Wisconsin, Shreveport, Louisiana and Grand
Rapids, Michigan which are utilized to provide long distance services, it
anticipates that most of its future long distance service revenues will be
provided by reselling service purchased from other facilities-based long
distance providers. The Company intends to continue to expand its long distance
business, principally through reselling arrangements.

      Internet access. The Company began offering traditional Internet access
services to its telephone customers in 1995. In late 1999, the Company began
offering in select markets digital subscriber line ("DSL") Internet access
services, a high-speed premium-priced data service. At December 31, 2001, the
Company provided Internet access services to a total of approximately 144,800
customers, 121,500 of which receive traditional dial-up Internet service in
select markets in 16 states (which markets represent 87% of the access lines
served by the Company's LECs), and 23,300 of which receive retail DSL services
in markets that cover approximately 61% of the access lines served by the
Company's LECs.

      Competitive local exchange services. In late 2000, the Company began
offering competitive local exchange telephone services, coupled with long
distance, wireless, Internet access and other Company services, to small to
medium-sized businesses in Monroe and Shreveport, Louisiana. In late 2001, the
Company began offering similar services in Grand Rapids and Lansing, Michigan.
On February 28, 2002, the Company purchased the fiber network and customer base
of KMC Telecom's operations in Monroe and Shreveport, Louisiana, which will
allow the Company to offer broadband services to customers in these markets.

      Broadband data. In connection with its long-range plans to sell capacity
to other carriers in or near certain of its select markets, the Company began
providing service in the second quarter of 2001 to customers over a recently
constructed 700-mile fiber optic ring connecting several communities in southern
and central Michigan.

      Security monitoring. The Company offers 24-hour burglary and fire
monitoring services to approximately 7,950 customers in select markets in
Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas and Ohio.

      Other. The Company also provides audiotext services; printing, database
management and direct mail services; and cable television services. The Company
is also in the process of developing an integrated billing and customer care
system which will enable the Company to offer customers value packaging and
produce a single bill for multiple services such as local telephone, wireless,
Internet access and long distance. From time to time the Company also makes
investments in other domestic or foreign communications companies.

      Certain service subsidiaries of the Company provide installation and
maintenance services, materials and supplies, and managerial, technical,
accounting and administrative services to the telephone and wireless operating
subsidiaries. In addition, the Company provides and bills management services to
subsidiaries and in certain instances makes interest-bearing advances to finance
construction of plant, purchases of equipment or acquisitions of other
businesses. These transactions are recorded by the Company's regulated telephone
subsidiaries at their cost to the extent permitted by regulatory authorities.
Intercompany profit on transactions with regulated affiliates is limited to a
reasonable return on investment and has not been eliminated in connection with
consolidating the results of operations of CenturyTel and its subsidiaries. Such
intercompany profit is reflected in operating income in "Other operations".

                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

      This report on Form 10-K and other documents filed by the Company under
the federal securities laws include, and future oral or written statements or
press releases of the Company and its management may include, certain
forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements with respect
to the Company's anticipated future operating and financial performance
(including the impact of pending acquisitions), financial position and
liquidity, growth opportunities and growth rates, business prospects, regulatory
and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure plans, investment results,
financing opportunities and sources (including the impact of financings on the
Company's financial position, financial performance or credit ratings), pricing
plans, strategic alternatives, business strategies, and other similar statements
of expectations or objectives that are highlighted by words such as "expects,"
"anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "projects," "seeks," "estimates,"
"hopes," "should," and "may," and variations thereof and similar expressions.
Such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based upon
several assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of the
Company's control. The Company's forward-looking statements, and the assumptions
upon which such statements are based, are subject to uncertainties that could
cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from such statements.
These uncertainties include but are not limited to those set forth below:

o     the Company's ability to timely consummate its pending acquisitions and
      effectively manage its growth, including without limitation the Company's
      ability to (i) obtain financing and regulatory approvals of its pending
      acquisitions on terms acceptable to the Company, (ii) integrate
      newly-acquired operations into the Company's operations, (iii) attract and
      retain technological, managerial and other key personnel to work at the
      Company's Monroe, Louisiana headquarters or regional offices, (iv) achieve
      projected economies of scale and cost savings, (v) achieve projected
      growth and revenue targets developed by management in valuing
      newly-acquired businesses, (vi) upgrade its billing and other information
      systems and (vii) otherwise monitor its operations, costs, regulatory
      compliance, and service quality and maintain other necessary internal
      controls.

o     the result of the Company's efforts to separate its wireless operations
      from its other operations.

o     the risks inherent in rapid technological change, including without
      limitation (i) the lack of assurance that the Company's ongoing wireless
      network improvements will be sufficient to meet or exceed the capabilities
      and quality of competing networks, (ii) technological developments that
      could make the Company's analog and digital wireless networks
      uncompetitive or obsolete, such as the risk that the TDMA digital
      technology used by the Company will be uncompetitive with existing or
      future "next generation" technologies, and (iii) the risk that
      technologies will not be developed or embraced by the Company on a timely
      or cost-effective basis or perform according to expectations.

o     the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications
      industry, including without limitation (i) changes as a result of the
      1996 Act and other similar federal and state legislation and federal
      and state regulations enacted thereunder, (ii) greater than anticipated
      interconnection requests or competition in the Company's predominately
      rural local exchange telephone markets resulting therefrom, (iii) greater
      than anticipated reductions in revenues received from the Universal
      Service Fund or other current or future federal and state support funds
      designed to compensate LECs that provide services in high-cost
      markets, (iv) the final outcome of regulatory and judicial proceedings
      with respect to interconnection agreements, (v) future judicial or
      regulatory actions taken in response to the 1996 Act and (vi) future
      legislation or regulations addressing potential concerns about radio
      frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations, or the
      potential hazards of using wireless phones while driving motor vehicles.

o     the effects of greater than anticipated competition, including (i)
      competition from competitive local exchange companies or wireless carriers
      in the Company's local exchange markets and (ii) the inability of the
      Company's wireless operations to compete against larger nationwide
      wireless carriers on the basis of price, service coverage area, or product
      offerings, or due to other factors, including technological obsolescence
      or the lack of marketing or other resources.

o     possible changes in the demand for the Company's products and services,
      including without limitation (i) lower than anticipated demand for
      traditional or premium telephone services or for additional access lines
      per household, (ii) lower than anticipated demand for wireless telephone
      services, whether caused by changes in economic conditions, technology,
      competition, health concerns or otherwise, (iii) lower than anticipated
      demand for the Company's DSL Internet access services, CLEC services or
      broadband services and (iv) reduced demand for the Company's access or
      billing and collection services.

o     the Company's ability to successfully introduce new offerings on a timely
      and cost-effective basis, including without limitation the Company's
      ability to (i) expand successfully its long distance and Internet
      offerings to new markets (including those to be acquired in connection
      with future acquisitions), (ii) offer bundled service packages on terms
      attractive to its customers and (iii) successfully initiate competitive
      local exchange and data services in its targeted markets.

o     regulatory limits on the Company's ability to change its prices for
      telephone services in response to competitive pressures.

o     any difficulties in the Company's ability to expand through attractively
      priced acquisitions, whether caused by financing constraints, a decrease
      in the pool of attractive target companies, or competition for
      acquisitions from other interested buyers.

o     the possibility of the need to make abrupt and potentially disruptive
      changes in the Company's business strategies due to changes in
      competition, regulation, technology, product acceptance or other factors.

o     higher than anticipated wireless operating costs due to churn or to
      fraudulent uses of the Company's networks, or lower than anticipated
      wireless revenues due to reduced roaming fees.

o     the lack of assurance that the Company can compete effectively against
      better-capitalized competitors.

o     the future applicability of SFAS 71 to the Company's telephone
      subsidiaries.

o     the effects of more general factors, including without limitation:

       + changes in general industry and market conditions and growth rates

       + changes in interest rates or other general national, regional or local
       economic conditions

       + changes in legislation, regulation or public policy, including changes
       in federal rural financing programs

       + unanticipated increases in capital, operating or administrative costs,
       or the impact of new business opportunities requiring significant
       up-front investments

       + the continued availability of financing in amounts, and on terms and
       conditions, necessary to support the Company's operations

       + changes in the Company's relationships with vendors, or the failure
       of these vendors to provide competitive products on a timely basis

       + changes in the Company's senior debt ratings

       + unfavorable outcomes of regulatory or legal proceedings, including rate
        proceedings and environmental proceedings

       + losses or unfavorable returns on the Company's investments in other
       communications companies

       + delays in the construction of the Company's networks

       + changes in accounting policies or practices adopted voluntarily or as
       required by generally accepted accounting principles.

      For additional information, see the description of the Company's business
included above, as well as Item 7 of this report. Due to these uncertainties,
you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon the Company's forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no
obligation to update or revise any of its forward-looking statements for any
reason.

                                  OTHER MATTERS

      The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and
local laws relating to the protection of the environment. Costs of compliance
through 2001 have not been material and the Company currently has no reason to
believe that such costs will become material.

      For additional information concerning the business and properties of the
Company, see notes 2, 5, 6, 12, and 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein.


<PAGE>


Item 2.       Properties.

      The Company's properties consist principally of (i) telephone lines,
central office equipment, and land and buildings related to telephone
operations, and (ii) switching and cell site equipment related to cellular
telephone operations. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company's gross
property, plant and equipment of approximately $6.3 billion and $5.9 billion,
respectively, consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         2001             2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Telephone operations
<S>                                                      <C>              <C>
      Cable and wire                                     47.7%            47.7
      Central office                                     29.0             28.0
      General support                                     5.4              5.5
      Information origination/termination                  .7               .9
      Construction in progress                            1.0              2.3
      Other                                                .1               .1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         83.9             84.5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Wireless operations
      Cell site                                           6.7              6.2
      General support                                     1.7              1.8
      Construction in progress                             .6               .9
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          9.0              8.9
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Other                                                     7.1              6.6
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        100.0%           100.0
==============================================================================
</TABLE>

      "Cable and wire" facilities consist primarily of buried cable and aerial
cable, poles, wire, conduit and drops. "Central office equipment" consists
primarily of switching equipment, circuit equipment and related facilities.
"General support" consists primarily of land, buildings, tools, furnishings,
fixtures, motor vehicles and work equipment."Information origination/termination
equipment" consists primarily of premise equipment (private branch exchanges
and telephones) for official company use. "Cell sites" consist primarily of
radio frequency channel equipment, switching equipment and towers."Construction
in progress" includes property of the foregoing categories that has not been
placed in service because it is still under construction.

      Most of the properties of the Company's telephone subsidiaries are subject
to mortgages securing the debt of such companies. The Company owns substantially
all of the central office buildings, local administrative buildings, warehouses,
and storage facilities used in its telephone operations. The Company leases most
of the offices used in its wireless operations; certain of its cell sites are
leased while most are owned by the Company. For further information on the
location and type of the Company's properties, see the descriptions of the
Company's telephone and wireless operations in Item 1.

<PAGE>


Item 3.       Legal Proceedings.

      Following the Company's rejection of an acquisition proposal publicly
disclosed by Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") on August 15, 2001, the Company, in
CenturyTel, Inc. v. Alltel Corporation, filed August 17, 2001 in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana, brought an action
against Alltel, asserting various claims under the federal securities laws and
pendent claims under Louisiana law and seeking injunctive and other relief. The
Company and its directors have been named defendants in Hannahs v. CenturyTel,
Inc., et al., filed August 20, 2001 in the Fourth Judicial District Court, State
of Louisiana, which asserts breach of fiduciary duty and related claims and
seeks injunctive relief pertaining to the Company's rejection of Alltel's
acquisition proposal, as well as unspecified monetary damages. Two other similar
shareholder suits have been either voluntarily dismissed or stayed and
administratively closed. The Company believes that these shareholder suits are
without merit.

     On March 13, 2002, the Arkansas Court of Appeals  vacated two orders issued
by the  Arkansas  Public  Utility  Commission  ("APUC") in  connection  with the
Company's  acquisition  of its  Arkansas'  LECs from  Verizon in July 2000,  and
remanded  the case back to the APUC for further  hearings.  The Court took these
actions in response  to  challenges  to the rates the Company has charged  other
LECs for intrastate  switched access service.  The Company intends to move for a
rehearing of the Court's  decision,  and is currently  evaluating  the legal and
financial implications of the Court's decision.

      From time to time, the Company is involved in other litigation incidental
to its business, including administrative hearings of state public utility
commissions relating primarily to rate making, actions relating to employee
claims, occasional grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies and
miscellaneous third party tort actions. Currently, there are no material legal
proceedings of this nature.

Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

      Not applicable.

                      Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information concerning the Company's Executive Officers, set forth at Item
10 in Part III hereof, is incorporated in Part I of this Report by reference.


<PAGE>


                                     PART II

Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
              Stockholder Matters.

      CenturyTel's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is
traded under the symbol CTL. The following table sets forth the high and low
sale prices, along with the quarterly dividends, for each of the quarters
indicated:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       Sale prices
                                  ----------------------        Dividend per
                                  High               Low        common share
                                  ----               ---        ------------
<S>                           <C>                 <C>               <C>
2001:
     First quarter            $  39.88            25.45             .0500
     Second quarter           $  30.42            26.90             .0500
     Third quarter            $  36.50            28.30             .0500
     Fourth quarter           $  35.79            30.25             .0500


2000:
     First quarter            $  47.31            32.31             .0475
     Second quarter           $  40.38            24.44             .0475
     Third quarter            $  32.38            25.25             .0475
     Fourth quarter           $  38.50            26.81             .0475

</TABLE>

      Common stock dividends during 2001 and 2000 were paid each quarter. As of
February 28, 2002, there were approximately 5,300 stockholders of record of
CenturyTel's common stock.


Item 6.       Selected Financial Data.

      The following table presents certain selected consolidated financial data
as of and for each of the years ended in the five-year period ended December 31,
2001:

Selected Income Statement Data
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Year ended December 31,
                                        ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               2001         2000         1999         1998         1997
                                        ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (Dollars, except per share amounts, and shares expressed in thousands)
<S>                                    <C>              <C>          <C>           <C>             <C>
Operating revenues
      Telephone                        $   1,505,733    1,253,969    1,126,112     1,077,343       526,428
      Wireless                               437,965      443,569      422,269       407,827       307,742
      Other                                  173,771      148,388      128,288        91,915        67,351
                                        ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating revenues               $   2,117,469    1,845,926    1,676,669     1,577,085       901,521
                                        ==================================================================

Operating income
      Telephone                        $     423,420      376,290      351,559       334,604       177,782
      Wireless                               112,401      117,865      133,930       129,124        87,772
      Other                                   22,098       31,258       22,580        16,083         2,216
                                        ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating income                 $     557,919      525,413      508,069       479,811       267,770
                                        ==================================================================

Nonrecurring gains and
   losses (pre-tax)                    $     199,971       20,593       62,808        49,859       169,640
                                        ==================================================================

Net income                             $     343,031      231,474      239,769       228,757       255,978
                                        ==================================================================

Basic earnings per share               $        2.43         1.65         1.72          1.67          1.89
                                        ==================================================================

Diluted earnings per share             $        2.41         1.63         1.70          1.64          1.87
                                        ==================================================================

Dividends per common share             $        .200         .190         .180          .173          .164
                                        ==================================================================

Average basic shares outstanding             140,743      140,069      138,848       137,010       134,984
                                        ==================================================================

Average diluted shares
   outstanding                               142,307      141,864      141,432       140,105       137,412
                                        ==================================================================
</TABLE>


Selected Balance Sheet Data

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    December 31,
                                     ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2001           2000           1999           1998            1997
                                     ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                 <C>               <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
Net property, plant and
   equipment                        $   2,999,563     2,959,293      2,256,458       2,351,453      2,258,563
Excess cost of net assets
   acquired, net                    $   2,471,484     2,509,033      1,644,884       1,956,701      1,767,352
Total assets                        $   6,318,684     6,393,290      4,705,407       4,935,455      4,709,401
Long-term debt                      $   2,087,500     3,050,292      2,078,311       2,558,000      2,609,541
Stockholders' equity                $   2,337,380     2,032,079      1,847,992       1,531,482      1,300,272
                                     ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      The following table presents certain selected consolidated operating data
as of the end of each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31,
2001:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year ended December 31,
                                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2001           2000           1999           1998            1997
                                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                     <C>           <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
Telephone access lines                  1,797,643     1,800,565      1,272,867       1,346,567      1,203,650
Wireless units in service in
   majority-owned markets                 797,340       751,200        707,486         624,290        569,983
Long distance customers                   465,872       363,307        303,722         226,730        171,962
                                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      See Items 1 and 2 in Part I, Item 7 in Part II and notes 1, 2 and 6 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 elsewhere herein
for additional information.

Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
              and Results of Operations

                              Results of Operations

                                    Overview

      CenturyTel, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") is a regional
integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing local exchange,
wireless, long distance, Internet access and data services to customers in 21
states.

      On July 31, 2000 and September 29, 2000, affiliates of the Company
acquired over 490,000 telephone access lines and related local exchange assets
in Arkansas, Missouri and Wisconsin from affiliates of Verizon Communications
Inc. ("Verizon") for an aggregate of approximately $1.5 billion cash. The
operations of these acquired properties are included in the Company's results of
operations beginning on the respective dates of acquisition. See Acquisitions
and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

      On May 14, 1999, the Company sold substantially all of its Alaska-based
operations serving approximately 134,900 telephone access lines and 3,000
cellular subscribers. On June 1, 1999, the Company sold the assets of its
Brownsville and McAllen, Texas cellular operations serving approximately 7,500
cellular subscribers. In February 2000, the Company sold the assets of its
remaining Alaska cellular operations serving approximately 10,600 cellular
subscribers. The operations of these disposed properties are included in the
Company's results of operations up to the respective dates of disposition.

      During the three years ended December 31, 2001, the Company has acquired
and sold various other operations, the impact of which has not been material to
the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

      The net income of the Company for 2001 was $343.0 million, compared to
$231.5 million during 2000 and $239.8 million during 1999. Diluted earnings per
share for 2001 were $2.41 compared to $1.63 in 2000 and $1.70 in 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                  2001              2000            1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            (Dollars, except per share amounts,
                                                                 and shares in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>                  <C>              <C>
Operating income
     Telephone                                      $   423,420          376,290          351,559
     Wireless                                           112,401          117,865          133,930
     Other                                               22,098           31,258           22,580
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        557,919          525,413          508,069
Nonrecurring gains and losses, net                      199,971           20,593           62,808
Interest expense                                       (225,523)        (183,302)        (150,557)
Income from unconsolidated cellular entities             27,460           26,986           27,675
Minority interest                                       (11,812)         (10,201)         (27,913)
Other income and expense                                  5,041            6,696            9,190
Income tax expense                                     (210,025)        (154,711)        (189,503)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                          $   343,031          231,474          239,769
=================================================================================================
Basic earnings per share                            $      2.43             1.65             1.72
=================================================================================================
Diluted earnings per share                          $      2.41             1.63             1.70
=================================================================================================
Average basic shares outstanding                        140,743          140,069          138,848
=================================================================================================
Average diluted shares outstanding                      142,307          141,864          141,432
=================================================================================================
</TABLE>

      During the three years ended December 31, 2001, the Company has recorded
certain nonrecurring items. Net income (and diluted earnings per share)
excluding nonrecurring items for 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $225.7 million ($1.59),
$228.8 million ($1.61), and $238.3 million ($1.69), respectively. The following
reconciliation table shows how the amounts of various line items reported under
generally accepted accounting principles were impacted by these nonrecurring
items.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended December 31,                                          2001              2000            1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                       (Dollars, except per share
                                                                         amounts, in thousands)

<S>                                                         <C>                  <C>              <C>
Operating income, as reported                               $   557,919          525,413          508,069
Less: Nonrecurring operating expenses (1)                        (2,000)            (504)          (2,749)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income, excluding nonrecurring items              $   559,919          525,917          510,818
=========================================================================================================

Nonrecurring gains and losses, net, as reported             $   199,971           20,593           62,808
Less nonrecurring items:
      Gain on sale of assets                                    243,656           20,593           62,808
      Write down of non-operating assets                        (43,685)               -                -
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nonrecurring gains and losses, net, excluding
   nonrecurring items                                       $         -                -                -
=========================================================================================================

Income from unconsolidated cellular entities, as reported   $    27,460           26,986           27,675
Less nonrecurring items:
      Proportionate share of nonrecurring charges
        recorded by entities in which the Company
        owns a minority interest                                (10,054)          (5,330)          (6,860)
      Company's share of gain on sale of assets                   2,164                -                -
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from unconsolidated cellular entities,
   excluding nonrecurring items                             $    35,350           32,316           34,535
=========================================================================================================

Minority interest, as reported                              $   (11,812)         (10,201)         (27,913)
Less:  Minority interest effect of gain on sale of assets           (13)               -          (14,926)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Minority interest, excluding nonrecurring items             $   (11,799)         (10,201)         (12,987)
=========================================================================================================

Other income and expense, as reported                       $     5,041            6,696            9,190
Less nonrecurring items:
      Costs associated with unsolicited takeover proposal        (6,000)               -                -
      Settlement of interest rate hedge contracts                     -           (7,947)               -
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other income and expense, excluding nonrecurring items      $    11,041           14,643            9,190
=========================================================================================================

Income tax expense, as reported                             $  (210,025)        (154,711)        (189,503)
Less:  Tax effect of nonrecurring items                         (66,698)          (4,166)         (36,821)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income tax expense, excluding nonrecurring items            $  (143,327)        (150,545)        (152,682)
=========================================================================================================

Net income, as reported                                     $   343,031          231,474          239,769
Less:  Effect of nonrecurring items                             117,370            2,646            1,452
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income, excluding nonrecurring items                    $   225,661          228,828          238,317
=========================================================================================================

Basic earnings per share, as reported                       $      2.43             1.65             1.72
Less:  Effect of nonrecurring items                                 .83              .02              .01
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share, excluding nonrecurring items      $      1.60             1.63             1.71
=========================================================================================================

Diluted earnings per share, as reported                     $      2.41             1.63             1.70
Less:  Effect of nonrecurring items                                 .82              .02              .01
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted earnings per share, excluding nonrecurring items    $      1.59             1.61             1.69
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>
(1)   Nonrecurring operating expenses for 2001 relate to expenses incurred as
      the result of an ice storm.


      For additional information concerning the nonrecurring items described in
the above table, see "Nonrecurring Gains and Losses, Net", "Income from
Unconsolidated Cellular Entities", "Minority Interest", and "Other Income and
Expense".

      Contributions to operating revenues and operating income by the Company's
telephone, wireless and other operations for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2001 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended December 31,                     2001         2000           1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>            <C>
Operating revenues
     Telephone operations                   71.1%        67.9           67.2
     Wireless operations                    20.7%        24.0           25.2
     Other operations                        8.2%         8.1            7.6
Operating income
     Telephone operations                   75.9%        71.6           69.2
     Wireless operations                    20.1%        22.4           26.4
     Other operations                        4.0%         6.0            4.4
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      In August 2001, the Company announced that it is exploring the potential
separation of its wireless business from its other operations.

      In addition to historical information, management's discussion and
analysis includes certain forward-looking statements regarding events and
financial trends that may affect the Company's future operating results and
financial position. Such forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties
that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from such
statements. Such uncertainties include but are not limited to: the Company's
ability to effectively manage its growth, including integrating newly-acquired
businesses into the Company's operations, successfully financing and timely
consummating pending acquisitions, hiring adequate numbers of qualified staff
and successfully upgrading its billing and other information systems; the
results of the Company's effort to separate its wireless operations; the risks
inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the
regulation of the telecommunications industry; the effects of greater than
anticipated competition in the Company's markets; possible changes in the demand
for, or pricing of, the Company's products and services; the Company's ability
to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and
cost-effective basis; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in
interest rates, in general market or economic conditions or in legislation,
regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to the
business are described in greater detail in Item 1 to the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001. You are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as
of the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any
of its forward-looking statements for any reason.

<PAGE>

Telephone Operations

      The Company conducts its telephone operations in rural, suburban and small
urban communities in 21 states. As of December 31, 2001, approximately 87% of
the Company's 1.8 million access lines were in Wisconsin, Arkansas, Washington,
Missouri, Michigan, Louisiana, Colorado, Ohio, and Oregon. The operating
revenues, expenses and income of the Company's telephone operations for 2001,
2000 and 1999 are summarized below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended December 31,                             2001            2000           1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                          <C>                  <C>            <C>
Operating revenues
      Local service                          $    491,529         408,538        353,534
      Network access                              874,458         727,797        654,003
      Other                                       139,746         117,634        118,575
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                1,505,733       1,253,969      1,126,112
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operating expenses
      Plant operations                            380,466         290,062        251,704
      Customer operations                         117,080         105,950         88,552
      Corporate and other                         186,483         163,761        160,631
      Depreciation and amortization               398,284         317,906        273,666
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                1,082,313         877,679        774,553
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                             $    423,420         376,290        351,559
========================================================================================
</TABLE>

      Local service revenues. Local service revenues are derived from the
monthly provision of local exchange telephone services in the Company's service
areas. Of the $83.0 million (20.3%) increase in local service revenues in 2001,
$73.7 million was due to the acquisition of the Verizon properties in 2000. The
remaining $9.3 million increase was due to a $6.9 million increase due to
increased rates in certain jurisdictions and an increase in the average number
of customer access lines in incumbent markets and a $3.9 million increase due to
the increased provision of custom calling features. Of the $55.0 million (15.6%)
increase in local service revenues in 2000, $46.5 million was due to the
acquisition of the Verizon properties, which was partially offset by a $14.4
million decrease attributable to the sale of the Company's Alaska-based
operations in the second quarter of 1999. The remaining $22.9 million increase
was due to a $16.4 million increase in the average number of customer access
lines in incumbent markets and a $5.4 million increase due to the increased
provision of custom calling features. Access lines declined 0.2% during 2001.
Internal access line growth during 2000 and 1999 was 2.8% and 4.8%,
respectively. The decline in internal access line growth during 2001 is
substantially due to the slowing growth in the Company's service areas due to
general economic conditions and disconnecting customers for nonpayment.

      Network access revenues. Network access revenues are primarily derived
from charges to long distance companies and other customers for access to the
Company's local exchange carrier ("LEC") networks in connection with the
completion of interstate or intrastate long distance telephone calls. Certain of
the Company's interstate network access revenues are based on tariffed access
charges filed directly with the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"); the
remainder of such revenues are derived under revenue sharing arrangements with
other LECs administered by the National Exchange Carrier Association. Intrastate
network access revenues are based on tariffed access charges filed with state
regulatory agencies or are derived under revenue sharing arrangements with other
LECs.

      Network access revenues increased $146.7 million (20.2%) in 2001 and
$73.8 million (11.3%) in 2000 due to the following factors:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               2001             2000
                                                              increase         increase
                                                             (decrease)       (decrease)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                        <C>                  <C>
Acquisitions of Verizon properties in
   third quarter 2000                                      $   139,866           75,938
Increased recovery from the federal
   Universal Service Fund ("USF")                                8,507           15,753
Disposition of Alaska properties                                     -          (23,348)
Partial recovery of increased operating
   costs through revenue sharing arrangements
   with other telephone companies, increased
   minutes of use, increased recovery from
   state support funds and return on rate base                  13,204            3,637
Revision of prior year revenue settlement agreements           (16,876)           4,228
Other, net                                                       1,960           (2,414)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           $   146,661           73,794
=======================================================================================
</TABLE>

      Other revenues. Other revenues include revenues related to (i) leasing,
selling, installing, maintaining and repairing customer premise
telecommunications equipment and wiring ("CPE services"), (ii) providing billing
and collection services for long distance carriers and (iii) participating in
the publication of local directories. Other revenues increased $22.1 million in
2001, primarily due to a $20.5 million increase attributable to revenues
contributed by the Verizon properties. The remainder of the increase in 2001 was
due primarily to a $7.0 million increase in revenues from CPE services
(primarily due to an increase in rates) which was partially offset by a $5.0
million decrease in billing and collection revenues. Other revenues decreased
$941,000 in 2000, primarily due to a $6.3 million decrease due to the sale of
the Alaska properties and a $5.4 million decrease from the provision of CPE
services, which benefited in 1999 from sales to customers readying their
equipment for the Year 2000. Such decreases were substantially offset by a $10.8
million increase attributable to revenues contributed by the Verizon properties.

      Operating expenses. Plant operations expenses during 2001 and 2000
increased $90.4 million (31.2%) and $38.4 million (15.2%), respectively. Of the
$90.4 million increase in 2001, $87.3 million was attributable to the properties
acquired from Verizon. The remaining $3.1 million increase was primarily due to
a $6.1 million increase in salaries and benefits, a $2.7 million increase in
network operations expenses and a $2.6 million increase in digital subscriber
line ("DSL") expenses. Such increases were substantially offset by a $9.9
million decrease in engineering expenses. Of the $38.4 million increase in 2000,
$44.8 million was attributable to the properties acquired from Verizon, which
was partially offset by a $13.0 million decrease due to the sale of the Alaska
properties. The remaining $6.6 million increase was primarily due to a $4.7
million increase in salaries and benefits and a $2.4 million increase in network
operations and engineering expenses.

      Customer operations, corporate and other expenses increased $33.9 million
(12.6%) in 2001 and $20.5 million (8.2%) in 2000. Of the $33.9 million increase
in 2001, $42.5 million related to the Verizon properties. The remaining $8.6
million decrease in 2001 was primarily due to a $4.3 million decrease in the
provision for doubtful accounts and a $3.1 million decrease in operating taxes.
Of the $20.5 million increase in 2000, $34.0 million related to the Verizon
properties, which was partially offset by an $11.4 million decrease due to the
sale of the Alaska properties in 1999. The remaining $2.1 million decrease in
2000 was primarily due to a $5.6 million decrease in contract labor expenses
primarily associated with nonrecurring costs incurred in 1999 attributable to
readying the Company's system to be Year 2000 compliant and an $8.2 million
decrease in operating taxes. Such decreases were partially offset by a $7.7
million increase in the provision for doubtful accounts and a $2.4 million
increase in information technology expenses.

      Depreciation and amortization increased $80.4 million (25.3%) and $44.2
million (16.2%) in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Of the $80.4 million increase in
2001, $65.2 million was attributable to the properties acquired from Verizon
(which included $14.7 million of amortization of goodwill) and the remainder was
primarily due to higher levels of plant in service. Of the $44.2 million
increase in 2000, $44.6 million was attributable to the properties acquired from
Verizon (which included $8.5 million of amortization of goodwill) and $11.8
million was primarily due to higher levels of plant in service. Such increases
were partially offset by a $10.6 million reduction resulting from the sale of
the Company's Alaska properties. Exclusive of acquisitions, depreciation expense
included nonrecurring additional depreciation charges approved by regulators in
certain jurisdictions which aggregated $4.1 million in 2000. The composite
depreciation rate for the Company's regulated telephone properties, including
the additional depreciation charges, was 6.8% for 2001, 7.2% for 2000 and 7.0%
for 1999.

      Other.   For additional information regarding certain matters that have
impacted or may impact the Company's telephone operations, see Regulation and
Competition.

<PAGE>

Wireless Operations and Income from Unconsolidated Cellular Entities
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended December 31,                                    2001           2000          1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                  <C>                <C>            <C>
Operating income - wireless operations               $   112,401        117,865        133,930
Minority interest - wireless operations,
   exclusive of the effect of asset sales in 1999        (11,510)       (11,598)       (12,911)
Income from unconsolidated cellular entities              27,460         26,986         27,675
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     $   128,351        133,253        148,694
==============================================================================================
</TABLE>

      The Company's wireless operations (discussed below) reflect 100% of the
results of operations of the cellular entities in which the Company has a
majority ownership interest. The minority interest owners' share of the income
of such entities is reflected in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income
as an expense in "Minority interest." See Minority Interest for additional
information. The Company's share of earnings from the cellular entities in which
it has less than a majority interest is accounted for using the equity method
and is reflected in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income in "Income
from unconsolidated cellular entities." See Income from Unconsolidated Cellular
Entities for additional information.

Wireless Operations

      All of the Company's wireless operations are located in Michigan,
Louisiana, Wisconsin, Mississippi, Texas and Arkansas. The operating revenues,
expenses and income of the Company's wireless operations for 2001, 2000 and 1999
are summarized below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                              2001           2000           1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                           (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                            <C>                <C>             <C>
Operating revenues
     Service                                                   $   336,850        328,956         305,006
     Roaming                                                        90,192         99,791         106,486
     Equipment sales                                                10,923         14,822          10,777
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   437,965        443,569         422,269
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses
     Cost of equipment sold                                         23,453         30,064          21,408
     System operations                                              75,628         69,641          56,866
     General, administrative and customer service                   85,467         78,087          79,569
     Sales and marketing                                            74,670         82,673          61,903
     Depreciation and amortization                                  66,346         65,239          68,593
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   325,564        325,704         288,339
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                               $   112,401        117,865         133,930
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

      Operating revenues. Service revenues include monthly service fees for
providing access and airtime to customers and toll revenue. Roaming revenues
include service fees for providing airtime to other carriers' customers roaming
through the Company's service areas.

      The $7.9 million increase in service revenues in 2001 was due primarily to
an increase in the number of customers and increased minutes of use per
customer, both of which were partially offset by reduced rates. The $9.6 million
decrease in roaming revenues in 2001 was due to a reduction in roaming rates
(which was partially offset by an increase in roaming minutes of use), a
downward trend in rates that the Company anticipates will continue in the near
future. Of the $24.0 million increase in service revenues in 2000, $31.6 million
was due to growth in the number of customers and increased minutes of use per
customer, both of which were partially offset by reduced rates. Such increase
was partially offset by an $8.0 million decrease due to the sale of the Texas
and Alaska cellular properties. Of the $6.7 million decrease in roaming revenues
in 2000, $3.2 million was due to a reduction in roaming rates (which was
partially offset by an increase in roaming minutes of use). The remainder of the
decrease in roaming revenues in 2000 was due to the sale of the Texas and Alaska
cellular properties in mid-1999.

      The following table illustrates the growth in the Company's wireless
customer base in its majority-owned markets:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                           2001           2000           1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>            <C>             <C>
Customers at beginning of period                751,200        707,486         624,290
Gross units added internally                    316,353        339,247         240,084
Disconnects                                     270,213        284,880         146,325
Net units added internally                       46,140         54,367          93,759
Effect of property dispositions                       -        (10,653)        (10,563)
Customers at end of period                      797,340        751,200         707,486
Average monthly churn rate
  (excluding prepaid customers)                   2.33%          1.95%           2.02%
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      The average monthly revenue (excluding equipment sales) per customer
declined to $46 during 2001 from $49 in 2000 and $53 in 1999 primarily due to
reductions in service rates charged to the Company's customers and reductions in
roaming rates charged to other cellular operators. The average monthly revenue
per customer is expected to further decline (i) as competitive pressures
(including those causing further reductions in service rates) from current and
future wireless communications providers intensify and (ii) as the Company
continues to receive pressure from other cellular operators to reduce roaming
rates. The Company is responding to such competitive pressures by, among other
things, modifying certain of its price plans and implementing certain other
plans and promotions, some of which are likely to result in lower average
revenue per customer.

      During 2001 the Company added approximately 47,700 net contract customers
while the prepaid customer base declined by 1,560 customers. The Company will
continue to focus on adding contract customers while decreasing its focus on
prepaid plans for future customer growth. At December 31, 2001, over 90% of the
Company's wireless customers were contract customers.

      Operating expenses. Cost of equipment sold decreased $6.6 million (22.0%)
in 2001 primarily due to a decrease in the number of phones sold and a decrease
in the average cost per unit. Cost of equipment sold increased $8.7 million
(40.4%) in 2000 primarily due to an increase in the number of phones sold and an
increase in average cost per unit primarily due to a higher percentage of
digital phones sold.

      System operations expenses increased $6.0 million (8.6%) in 2001 primarily
due to a $6.5 million increase in network costs and cell site expenses
associated with operating a greater number of cell sites and a $3.3 million
increase in the net amounts paid to other carriers for service provided to the
Company's customers who roam in the other carriers' service areas. Such
increases were partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in toll costs. System
operations expenses increased $12.8 million (22.5%) in 2000 primarily due to a
$5.9 million increase associated with operating a greater number of cell sites
and a $4.5 million increase in the net amounts paid to other carriers for
service provided to the Company's customers who roam in the other carriers'
service areas.

      Exclusive of cell sites in its PCS markets, the Company operated 739 cell
sites at December 31, 2001 in entities in which it had a majority interest,
compared to 667 at December 31, 2000 and 639 at December 31, 1999.

      General, administrative and customer service expenses increased $7.4
million (9.5%) in 2001, of which $3.7 million was due to an increase in customer
service and retention costs and $2.0 million was attributable to an increase in
the provision for doubtful accounts. General, administrative and customer
service expenses decreased $1.5 million (1.9%) in 2000, of which $3.3 million
was attributable to a decrease in operating taxes and $1.5 million was due to
the sale of the Alaska and Texas properties. Such decreases were partially
offset by a $2.2 million increase in the provision for doubtful accounts.

      Sales and marketing expenses decreased $8.0 million (9.7%) in 2001 due
primarily to a $2.8 million decrease in advertising and sales promotion
expenses; a $2.1 million decrease in sales commissions paid to agents due to a
decrease in the number of units sold; and a $1.1 million decrease in costs
associated with operating a fewer number of retail locations. Sales and
marketing expenses increased $20.8 million (33.6%) in 2000 due primarily to an
$8.6 million increase in advertising and sales promotion expenses; a $5.2
million increase in sales commissions paid to agents due to an increase in the
number of units sold; and a $4.2 million increase in costs incurred in selling
products and services in retail locations primarily due to an increase in the
number of retail locations.

      Depreciation and amortization increased $1.1 million in 2001 primarily due
to a higher level of plant in service. Depreciation and amortization decreased
$3.4 million (4.9%) in 2000, primarily due to the sale of the Alaska and Texas
properties.

      Other.  For additional information regarding certain matters that have
impacted or may impact the Company's wireless operations, see Regulation and
Competition.

Other Operations

      Other operations includes the results of operations of subsidiaries of the
Company which are not included in the telephone or wireless segments including,
but not limited to, the Company's non-regulated long distance operations,
Internet operations, call center operations (which ceased operations in the
third quarter of 2000), competitive local exchange carrier ("CLEC") operations,
fiber network business and security monitoring operations. The operating
revenues, expenses and income of the Company's other operations for 2001, 2000
and 1999 are summarized below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended December 31,                               2001           2000            1999
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                             <C>                <C>              <C>
Operating revenues
     Long distance                              $   117,363        104,435          83,087
     Internet                                        39,057         23,491          16,818
     Other                                           17,351         20,462          28,383
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    173,771        148,388         128,288
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses
     Cost of sales and operating expenses           142,919        112,219          99,151
     Depreciation and amortization                    8,754          4,911           6,557
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    151,673        117,130         105,708
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                $    22,098         31,258          22,580
==========================================================================================
</TABLE>

      Long distance revenues increased $12.9 million (12.4%) and $21.3 million
(25.7%) in 2001 and 2000, respectively, due primarily to the growth in the
number of customers and increased minutes of use, primarily due to penetration
of the Verizon markets acquired in 2000. The number of long distance customers
as of December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999 was 465,870, 363,300, and 303,700,
respectively. Internet revenues increased $15.6 million (66.3%) in 2001
primarily due to a $12.6 million increase due to growth in the number of
customers (including growth in the Company's DSL product offering) and a $1.8
million increase due to Internet operations acquired in mid-2000. Internet
revenues increased $6.7 million (39.7%) in 2000 primarily due to a $6.9 million
increase due to growth in the number of customers and a $1.4 million increase
due to Internet operations acquired in late 1999 and mid-2000. Such increases
were partially offset by a $2.3 million decrease due to the sale of the
Company's Alaska Internet operations in mid-1999. Other revenues declined $3.1
million and $7.9 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively, primarily due to the
planned phase-out of the Company's third party call center operations during
2000.

      Cost of sales and operating expenses increased $30.7 million (27.4%) in
2001 primarily due to (i) a $23.5 million increase in expenses related to the
provision of Internet access primarily due to the expansion of the Company's DSL
product offering, (ii) an increase of $9.3 million in expenses of the Company's
long distance operations primarily due to an increase in the number of customers
and an increase in marketing expenses, and (iii) an $8.3 million increase due to
the expansion of the Company's CLEC business. Such increases were partially
offset by a $6.5 million reduction in expenses due to the winding down of the
Company's third party call center operations during 2000.

      Cost of sales and operating expenses during 2000 increased $13.1 million
(13.2%) primarily due to an increase of $12.3 million in expenses of the
Company's long distance operations primarily due to increased minutes of use due
to an increase in the number of customers which was partially offset by reduced
rates; a $9.8 million increase in expenses associated with expanding the
Company's Internet operations and a $3.4 million increase in expenses primarily
due to start-up costs of the Company's CLEC business. Such increases were
partially offset by a $9.0 million reduction in expenses due to winding down the
Company's third party call center operations during 2000 and a $2.4 million
decrease due to the 1999 sale of the Company's Alaska Internet operations.

      Depreciation and amortization increased $3.8 million in 2001 primarily due
to increased depreciation expense in the Company's Internet and fiber network
businesses. Depreciation and amortization decreased $1.6 million in 2000
primarily due to the write down of assets of the call center operations to
estimated net realizable value in 1999.

      The Company incurred combined operating losses in 2001 of $16.5 million in
its CLEC and fiber network businesses and expects to incur a combined operating
loss ranging from $15 to $20 million in 2002 related to these operations.

      Certain of the Company's service subsidiaries provide managerial,
operational, technical, accounting and administrative services, along with
materials and supplies, to the Company's telephone subsidiaries. In accordance
with regulatory accounting, intercompany profit on transactions with regulated
affiliates has not been eliminated in connection with consolidating the results
of operations of the Company. When the regulated operations of the Company no
longer qualify for the application of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation"
("SFAS 71"), such intercompany profit will be eliminated in subsequent financial
statements, the primary result of which will be a decrease in operating expenses
applicable to the Company's telephone operations and an increase in operating
expenses applicable to the Company's other operations. The amount of
intercompany profit with regulated affiliates which was not eliminated was
approximately $22.0 million, $17.1 million and $14.0 million in 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively. For additional information applicable to SFAS 71, see
Regulation and Competition -- Other Matters and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

<PAGE>

NONRECURRING GAINS AND LOSSES, NET

      In 2001, the Company's aggregate favorable nonrecurring gains and losses
were $200.0 million. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $185.1
million ($117.7 million after-tax; $.83 per diluted share) due to the sale of 30
PCS licenses to Leap Wireless International, Inc. ("Leap"). In conjunction with
the sale of licenses to Leap, the Company also recorded a pre-tax charge of
$18.2 million ($11.6 million after-tax; $.08 per share) due to the write-down in
the value of certain non-operating assets. Also during 2001, the Company
recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of its remaining shares of Illuminet
Holdings, Inc. ("Illuminet") common stock aggregating $54.6 million ($35.5
million after-tax; $.25 per diluted share) and a pre-tax gain of $4.0 million
($2.6 million after-tax; $.02 per diluted share) on the sale of certain other
assets.

      Additionally in 2001, the Company recorded pre-tax charges of $25.5
million ($16.6 million after-tax; $.12 per diluted share) due to the write-down
in the value of certain non-operating investments in which the Company owns a
minority interest.

      In 2000, the Company recorded pre-tax gains aggregating $20.6 million.
Approximately $9.9 million ($5.2 million after tax; $.04 per diluted share) was
due to the sale of the assets of the Company's remaining Alaska cellular
operations and approximately $10.7 million ($6.4 million after tax; $.05 per
diluted share) was due to the sale of the Company's minority interest in a
non-strategic cellular partnership.

      In 1999, the Company recorded pre-tax gains aggregating $62.8 million.
Approximately $39.6 million of the pre-tax gains ($7.8 million after-tax loss;
$.05 per diluted share) was due to the sale of the Company's Brownsville and
McAllen, Texas cellular properties. Approximately $10.4 million of the pre-tax
gains ($6.7 million after tax; $.04 per diluted share) was due to the sale of
the Company's remaining common shares of MCIWorldCom, Inc. The remainder of the
gains in 1999 was primarily due to an $11.6 million pre-tax gain ($7.6 million
after tax; $.05 per diluted share) due to the sale of the Company's shares of
common stock of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc.

      Certain other nonrecurring items for the three year period ended December
31, 2001 are reflected in other line items of the Company's consolidated
financial statements. See Income from Unconsolidated Cellular Entities, Minority
Interest and Other Income and Expense.

INTEREST EXPENSE

      Interest expense increased $42.2 million in 2001 compared to 2000
primarily due to an increase in interest expense related to outstanding
indebtedness incurred to acquire the Verizon operations.

      Interest expense increased $32.7 million in 2000 primarily due to $41.5
million in interest expense related to the Verizon acquisition indebtedness and
a $6.8 million increase caused by higher interest rates. Such increases were
partially offset by interest expense reductions primarily due to a decrease in
outstanding indebtedness exclusive of debt associated with the Verizon
acquisitions.

INCOME FROM UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES

      Earnings from unconsolidated cellular entities, net of the amortization of
associated goodwill, increased $474,000 (1.8%) in 2001 and decreased $689,000
(2.5%) in 2000. The $474,000 increase in 2001 was primarily due to (i) the
Company's proportionate share ($5.3 million) of non-cash charges recorded in the
first quarter of 2000 by two cellular entities in which the Company owns a
minority interest, (ii) a $2.2 million favorable adjustment related to the gain
on the sale of PCS licenses to Leap by a cellular entity in which the Company
owns a minority interest, and (iii) a $3.1 million increase due to increased
earnings of certain cellular entities in which the Company owns a minority
interest. Such increases were offset by a $10.1 million unfavorable non-cash,
nonrecurring charge that was recorded in 2001 by a cellular entity in which the
Company owns a minority interest.

      The $689,000 decrease in 2000 was primarily due to (i) the Company's
proportionate share ($5.3 million) of non-cash, nonrecurring charges that were
recorded in 2000 by cellular entities in which the Company owns a minority
interest and (ii) a $2.3 million decrease due to decreased earnings of certain
cellular entities in which the Company owns a minority interest. Such decreases
were offset by a $6.9 million non-cash charge recorded in 1999 by cellular
entities in which the Company owns a minority interest.

MINORITY INTEREST

      Minority interest is the expense recorded by the Company to reflect the
minority interest owners' share of the earnings of the Company's majority-owned
subsidiaries. Minority interest increased $1.6 million in 2001 compared to 2000
due primarily to increased profitability of certain of the Company's
majority-owned and operated entities.

      Minority interest decreased $17.7 million during 2000 compared to 1999
primarily due to the minority partners' share of the gain on sale of assets of
the Brownsville and McAllen, Texas cellular properties recorded in 1999.
Excluding the effect of this gain, minority interest decreased $2.8 million
primarily due to the decreased profitability of the Company's majority-owned and
operated cellular entities ($1.3 million) and due to the minority partners'
share of the loss incurred by certain of the operations acquired from Verizon by
CenturyTel's majority-owned affiliates ($1.6 million).

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE

      Other income and expense decreased $1.7 million in 2001 compared to 2000
primarily due to $6.0 million of costs incurred in 2001 associated with
responding to an unsolicited takeover proposal and to other expense increases.
These 2001 expense increases were partially offset by a favorable comparison to
expenses in 2000, when the Company recorded a $7.9 million charge related to the
settlement of certain interest rate hedge contracts entered into in connection
with financing the Verizon acquisitions.

      Other income and expense decreased $2.5 million in 2000 compared to 1999
primarily due to the $7.9 million charge related to the settlement of certain
interest rate hedge contracts entered into in connection with financing the
Verizon acquisitions. Such decrease was partially offset by a $4.1 million
increase in interest income.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE

      The Company's effective income tax rate was 38.0%, 40.1% and 44.1% in
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Exclusive of the effect of income tax expense
on asset sales, the effective income tax rate was 39.0%, 39.9% and 39.0% in
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

ACQUISITIONS

      On July 31, 2000 and September 29, 2000, affiliates of the Company
acquired over 490,000 telephone access lines and related assets from Verizon in
four separate transactions for approximately $1.5 billion in cash. Under these
transactions:

o     On July 31, 2000, the Company purchased approximately 231,000 telephone
      access lines and related local exchange assets comprising 106 exchanges
      throughout Arkansas for approximately $842 million in cash.

o     On July 31, 2000, Spectra Communications Group, LLC ("Spectra") purchased
      approximately 127,000 telephone access lines and related local exchange
      assets comprising 107 exchanges throughout Missouri for approximately $297
      million cash. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owns 75.7% of Spectra,
      which was organized to acquire and operate these Missouri properties. At
      closing, the Company made a preferred equity investment in Spectra of
      approximately $55 million (which represented a 57.1% interest) and
      financed substantially all of the remainder of the purchase price. In the
      first quarter of 2001, the Company purchased an additional 18.6% interest
      in Spectra for $47.1 million.

o     On September 29, 2000, the Company purchased approximately 70,500
      telephone access lines and related local exchange assets comprising 42
      exchanges throughout Wisconsin for approximately $197 million in cash.

o     On September 29, 2000, Telephone USA of Wisconsin, LLC ("TelUSA")
      purchased approximately 62,900 telephone access lines and related local
      exchange assets comprising 35 exchanges throughout Wisconsin for
      approximately $172 million in cash. The Company owns 89% of TelUSA, which
      was organized to acquire and own these Wisconsin properties. At closing,
      the Company made an equity investment in TelUSA of approximately $37.8
      million and financed substantially all of the remainder of the purchase
      price.

      To finance these acquisitions on a short-term basis, the Company borrowed
$1.157 billion on a floating-rate basis under its $1.5 billion credit facility
with Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A. and borrowed $300 million on a
floating-rate basis under its 1997 credit facility with Bank of America, N.A.

      On October 19, 2000, the Company issued $500 million of 8.375% Senior
Notes, Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing date of October 15, 2002) under its $2.0
billion shelf registration statement filed in May 2000. The net proceeds of
approximately $908 million (excluding the Company's payments of approximately
$12.3 million associated with related interest rate hedging) were used to repay
a portion of the $1.457 billion of aggregate indebtedness the Company incurred
under its credit facilities in connection with the Verizon acquisitions.

      In October 2001, the Company entered into definitive agreements to
purchase from affiliates of Verizon assets comprising all of Verizon's
operations in Missouri and Alabama for $2.159 billion cash. For additional
information related to these acquisitions, see Liquidity and Capital Resources -
Financing Activities.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      Revenue recognition. Certain of the Company's telephone subsidiaries
participate in revenue sharing arrangements with other telephone companies for
interstate revenue and for certain intrastate revenue. Under such sharing
arrangements, which are typically administered by quasi-governmental agencies,
participating telephone companies contribute toll revenue or access charges
within state jurisdictions and access charges in the interstate market. These
revenues are pooled by the administrative agencies and used to reimburse
exchange carriers for their costs. Typically, participating companies have 24
months to update or correct data previously submitted. As a result, revenues
earned through the various sharing arrangements are initially recorded based on
the Company's estimates. Historically, revisions of previous revenue estimates
as a percentage of consolidated revenues have not been material.

      Accounting for the Effects of Regulation. The Company's regulated
telephone operations are subject to the provisions of SFAS 71. Property, plant
and equipment of the Company's regulated telephone operations has been
depreciated using the straight line method over lives approved by regulators;
such lives have generally exceeded the depreciable lives used by nonregulated
entities. In addition, in accordance with SFAS 71, retirements of regulated
telephone property have been charged to accumulated depreciation, along with the
costs of removal, less salvage, with no gain or loss recognized. These policies
have resulted in accumulated depreciation being significantly less than if the
Company's telephone operations had not been regulated.

      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 101, "Regulated
Enterprises - Accounting for the Discontinuance of Application of FASB Statement
No. 71" ("SFAS 101"), specifies the accounting required when an enterprise
ceases to meet the criteria for application of SFAS 71. SFAS 101 requires the
elimination of the effects of any actions of regulators that have been
recognized as assets and liabilities in accordance with SFAS 71 but would not
have been recognized as assets and liabilities by non-regulated enterprises,
along with an adjustment of certain accumulated depreciation accounts to reflect
the difference between recorded depreciation and the amount of depreciation that
would have been recorded had the Company's telephone operations not been subject
to rate regulation. SFAS 101 further provides that the carrying amounts of
property, plant and equipment are to be adjusted only to the extent the assets
are impaired and that impairment shall be judged in the same manner as for
non-regulated enterprises. Deferred tax liabilities and deferred investment tax
credits will be impacted based on the change in the temporary differences for
property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation.

      The Company is  monitoring  the  ongoing  applicability  of SFAS 71 to its
regulated telephone  operations by, among other things,  assessing the extent of
its interstate and  intrastate  operations  that are subject to various forms of
alternative  regulation instead of traditional rate of return regulation.  It is
possible that changes in regulation, legislation or competition or in the demand
for  regulated  services or products  could  result in the  Company's  telephone
operations  no longer  being  subject  to SFAS 71 in the near  future.  When the
regulated  operations of the Company no longer  qualify for the  application  of
SFAS 71, the net adjustments  required may result in a material,  noncash charge
against  earnings  which would be reported as an  extraordinary  item.  For
regulatory  purposes,  the accounting and reporting of the Company's  telephone
subsidiaries will not be affected by the discontinued application of SFAS 71.

      The properties to be acquired from Verizon in 2002 are not expected to be
accounted for under the provisions of SFAS 71.

      Long-lived assets. Through December 31, 2001, in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-lived Assets and for Long-lived Assets to be Disposed of," ("SFAS 121") the
carrying value of long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and
allocated goodwill, was reviewed for impairment at least annually, or whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicated that such carrying value was not
recoverable, by assessing the recoverability of such carrying value through
estimated undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the
assets or the acquired business. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company will be
required to test for impairment under two new accounting standards, Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets"
("SFAS 142"), and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144").

      SFAS 142 requires goodwill recorded in business combinations to be
reviewed for impairment and requires write-downs only in periods in which the
recorded amount of goodwill exceeds the fair value. Under SFAS 142, impairment
of goodwill will be tested by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to
its carrying value (including goodwill). Estimates of the fair value of the
reporting unit will be based on valuation models using techniques such as
multiples of earnings. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the
carrying value, a second calculation is required in which the implied fair value
of goodwill is compared to its carrying value. If the implied fair value of
goodwill is less than its carrying value, goodwill must be written down to its
implied fair value. The Company is in the process of determining the impact, if
any, of the transitional goodwill impairment rules of SFAS 142.

      Under SFAS 144, the carrying value of long-lived assets other than
goodwill is reviewed for impairment by assessing the recoverability of the
carrying value through estimated undiscounted net cash flows expected to be
generated by the assets. If the undiscounted net cash flows are less than the
carrying value, an impairment loss would be measured as the excess of the
carrying value of a long-lived asset over its fair value.

      For additional information on the Company's critical accounting policies,
see Accounting Pronouncements and Regulation and Competition - Other Matters,
and the footnotes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" ("SFAS 133"). SFAS 133 established accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments and for hedging activities by requiring
that entities recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities at fair
value on the balance sheet. The Company had no derivative instruments
outstanding at January 1, 2001 and thus no transition adjustment was recorded
upon adoption of SFAS 133.

      As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding an interest rate swap
relating to $199.1 million of floating rate debt designed to eliminate the
variability of cash flows in the payment of interest related to such debt. Under
SFAS 133, the Company does not expect fluctuations in the fair value of the swap
to be recorded in its statements of income. In addition, the Company has from
time to time entered into interest rate hedge contracts in anticipation of
certain debt issuances to manage interest rate exposure. The Company does not
utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative
purposes.

      In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141") and
SFAS 142. SFAS 141 requires all business combinations consummated after June 30,
2001 to be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting; the pooling of
interests method is no longer permitted. SFAS 142 requires goodwill recorded in
a business combination to be reviewed for impairment and would be written down
only in periods in which the recorded amount of goodwill exceeds its fair value.
Effective January 1, 2002, systematic amortization of goodwill is no longer
required. The Company's amortization of goodwill for the year ended December 31,
2001 totaled approximately $69.2 million. The application of the transitional
goodwill impairment rules of SFAS 142 is not expected to have a material effect
on the results of operations of the Company.

      In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 144,
which replaces SFAS 121, and supersedes the accounting and reporting provisions
related to discontinued operations under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
30. SFAS 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or
disposal of long-lived assets and also broadens the reporting of discontinued
operations to include all components of an entity with operations that can be
distinguished from the rest of the entity and that will be eliminated from the
ongoing operations of the entity in a disposal transaction. The provisions of
SFAS 144 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2001. The adoption of SFAS 144 is not expected to
have a material effect on the results of operations of the Company.

INFLATION

      The effects of increased costs historically have been mitigated by the
Company's ability to recover certain costs applicable to its regulated telephone
operations through the rate-making process. While the rate-making process does
not permit the Company to immediately recover the costs of replacing its
physical plant, the Company has historically been able to recapture these costs
over time. Possible future regulatory changes may alter the Company's ability to
recover increased costs in its regulated operations. For additional information
regarding the current regulatory environment, see Regulation and Competition. As
operating expenses in the Company's non-regulated lines of business increase as
a result of inflation, the Company, to the extent permitted by competition,
recovers the costs by increasing prices for its services and equipment.

MARKET RISK

      Approximately 90% of the Company's long-term debt obligations are fixed
rate. At December 31, 2001, the fair value of the Company's long-term debt was
estimated to be $3.0 billion based on the overall weighted average rate of the
Company's long-term debt of 6.7% and an overall weighted maturity of 10 years
compared to terms and rates currently available in long-term financing markets.
For purposes hereof, market risk is estimated as the potential decrease in fair
value of the Company's long-term debt resulting from a hypothetical increase of
67 basis points in interest rates (which represents ten percent of the Company's
overall weighted average borrowing rate). Such an increase in interest rates
would result in approximately a $96.4 million decrease in fair value of the
Company's long-term debt. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owed $353.0
million of debt on a floating-rate basis.

      As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding an interest rate swap
relating to $191.1 million of its floating rate debt designed to eliminate the
variability of cash flows in the payment of interest related to such debt. Under
this swap, which expires in August 2002, the Company realizes a fixed effective
rate of 4.845% and receives or makes settlement payments based upon the 3-month
London InterBank Offered Rate, with settlement and rate reset dates at
three-month intervals through the expiration date.

OTHER

      The Company is in the process of developing an integrated billing and
customer care system. The costs to develop such system have been capitalized in
accordance with Statement of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," and aggregated $139.5
million at December 31, 2001. Such costs are expected to aggregate approximately
$200 million upon completion (which is expected to occur in early 2003) and are
expected to be amortized over a twenty-year period.

                         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

      Excluding cash used for acquisitions, the Company relies on cash provided
by operations to provide for its cash needs. The Company's operations have
historically provided a stable source of cash flow which has helped the Company
continue its long-term program of capital improvements.

      Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $665.4
million, $562.5 million and $408.7 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
The Company's accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows identify major
differences between net income and net cash provided by operating activities for
each of those years. For additional information relating to the telephone
operations, wireless operations and other operations of the Company, see Results
of Operations.

      Investing activities. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
was $(275.7) million, $(1.914) billion and $69.8 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Cash used for acquisitions was $47.1 million in 2001, $1.541
billion in 2000 (substantially all of which relates to the Verizon acquisitions)
and $21.0 million in 1999. Proceeds from the sales of assets were $166.2 million
in 2001 compared to $29.5 million in 2000 and $484.5 million in 1999. Capital
expenditures for 2001 were $351.0 million for telephone operations, $71.2
million for wireless operations and $84.5 million for other operations. Capital
expenditures during 2000 and 1999 were $449.5 million and $390.0 million,
respectively. In connection with the sale of PCS licenses to Leap in 2001, the
Company received an $86.5 million promissory note, all of which was subsequently
collected during 2001.

      Financing activities. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
was $(395.4) million in 2001, $1.314 billion in 2000 and $(427.6) million in
1999. Net payments of debt in 2001 were $375.6 million, which reflects
utilization of cash received from asset sales. Net proceeds from the issuance of
debt was $1.340 billion during 2000 primarily due to an increase in borrowings
due to the purchase of assets from Verizon. Net payments of debt were $422.9
million in 1999.

      On July 31, 2000 and September 29, 2000, affiliates of the Company
acquired over 490,000 telephone access lines and related assets from Verizon in
four separate transactions for approximately $1.5 billion in cash. See
Acquisitions and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information. To finance these acquisitions on a short-term basis, the
Company borrowed $1.157 billion on a floating-rate basis under its $1.5 billion
credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., and borrowed $300
million on a floating-rate basis under its 1997 credit facility with Bank of
America, N.A.

      On October 19, 2000, the Company issued $500 million of 8.375% Senior
Notes, Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing date of October 15, 2002) under its $2.0
billion shelf registration statement filed in May 2000. The net proceeds of
approximately $908 million (excluding the Company's payments of approximately
$12.3 million associated with related interest rate hedging) were used to repay
a portion of the $1.457 billion of aggregate indebtedness the Company incurred
under its credit facilities in connection with the Verizon acquisitions.

      In second quarter 2001, the Company completed the sale of 30 PCS (Personal
Communications Service) operating licenses for an aggregate of $195 million to
Leap. The Company received approximately $108 million of the purchase price in
cash at closing and the remainder was collected in installments through the
fourth quarter of 2001 under the terms of a promissory note. In third quarter
2001, the Company sold its remaining shares of its investment in Illuminet
common stock for an aggregate of approximately $58.2 million. Proceeds from
these sales were used to repay indebtedness.

      On October 22, 2001, the Company entered into definitive agreements to
purchase from affiliates of Verizon assets comprising all of Verizon's local
telephone operations in Missouri and Alabama. In exchange, the Company has
agreed to pay approximately $2.159 billion in cash, subject to certain
adjustments which are not expected to be material. Under each definitive
agreement, the Company has agreed to pay Verizon 10% of the transaction
consideration if the purchase is not consummated under certain specified
conditions, including the Company's incapacity to finance the transaction. The
acquisitions are subject to the receipt of various state and federal regulatory
approvals and other closing conditions. The Company's financing plans are not
yet complete and will be dependent upon the Company's review of its alternatives
and market conditions.

      The properties to be acquired are currently subject to price-cap
regulation for interstate purposes, and the Company has no plans to change this.
Because most of the Company's other telephone properties are subject to
rate-of-return regulation, the Company's plans to retain price-cap regulation
for the acquired properties will require it to seek a waiver of the FCC's "all
or nothing" regulation that generally requires a rate-of-return company
acquiring a price-cap company to convert all of its operations to price-cap
regulation. Although the FCC has granted similar waivers to other carriers over
the past couple of years, no assurances can be provided that the FCC will grant
a waiver to the Company. The Company's failure to obtain this waiver would
adversely impact the financial benefits that the Company anticipates receiving
in connection with its purchases of the Verizon properties.

      For additional information on these pending Verizon acquisitions, see Item
1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2001.

      Other. Budgeted capital expenditures for 2002 total $315 million for
telephone operations, $65 million for wireless operations and $45 million for
other operations. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures in its
telephone operations will continue to include the installation of fiber optic
cable and the upgrading of its plant and equipment, including its digital
switches, to provide enhanced services, particularly in its newly acquired
markets. Capital expenditures in the wireless operations are expected to
continue to focus on constructing additional cell sites (which will provide
additional capacity and expanded areas where cellular phones may be used) and
providing digital service.

      The Company continually evaluates the possibility of acquiring additional
telecommunications operations and expects to continue its long-term strategy of
pursuing the acquisition of attractive communications properties in exchange for
cash, securities or both. The Company generally does not announce its
acquisitions until it has entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement.
Over the past few years, the amount and size of communications properties
available to be purchased by the Company has increased substantially. The
Company may require additional financing in connection with any such
acquisitions, the consummation of which could have a material impact on the
Company's financial condition or operations. Approximately 4.6 million shares of
CenturyTel common stock and 200,000 shares of CenturyTel preferred stock remain
available for future issuance in connection with acquisitions under CenturyTel's
acquisition shelf registration statement.

      The following table contains certain information concerning the Company's
material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2001.

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        Payments due by period
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total contractual                            Less than                                           After
   obligations              Total             1 year          1-3 years          4-5 years      5 years
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                       <C>                 <C>               <C>              <C>             <C>
Long-term debt,
   including current
   maturities             $3,043,334          955,834           141,546          360,399         1,585,555

Verizon purchase
   price obligation       $2,159,000        2,159,000                 -                -                 -
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      As of December 31, 2001, the Company has an aggregate of $499.1 million of
debt outstanding under a credit facility and a note that expires or becomes due
in August 2002 and has an additional $400 million in bonds that must be
mandatorily redeemed by the Company in October 2002 if the remarketing dealer
for these bonds does not purchase and remarket the bonds in accordance with a
remarketing agreement. The Company intends to refinance such debt on a long-term
basis.

      As of December 31, 2001, the Company had available $470.1 million of
undrawn committed bank lines of credit and the Company's telephone subsidiaries
had available for use $123.0 million of commitments for long-term financing from
the Rural Utilities Service and Rural Telephone Bank. In addition, in October
2000 the Company implemented a commercial paper program that authorizes the
Company to have outstanding up to $1.5 billion in commercial paper at any one
time. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding $23.0 million under
such program. The Company also has access to debt and equity capital markets,
including its shelf registration statements.

      Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") rates CenturyTel's long-term debt
rating Baa2 (with a stable outlook) and Standard & Poor's ("S&P") rates
CenturyTel's long-term debt BBB+ (with a negative outlook). The Company's
commercial paper program is rated P2 by Moody's and A2 by S&P.

      The following table reflects the Company's debt to total capitalization
percentage and ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends
as of and for the years ended December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                2001        2000          1999
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>         <C>           <C>
Debt to total capitalization                    57.0%       63.1          53.7
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges
  and preferred stock dividends                 3.40        3.07          3.75
Ratio of earnings, excluding nonrecurring
  items, to fixed charges and
  preferred stock dividends                     2.57        3.01          3.45
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
                           REGULATION AND COMPETITION

      The communications industry continues to undergo various fundamental
regulatory, legislative, competitive and technological changes. These changes
may have a significant impact on the future financial performance of all
communications companies.

      Events affecting the communications industry. In 1996, the United States
Congress enacted the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"), which
obligates LECs to permit competitors to interconnect their facilities to the
LEC's network and to take various other steps that are designed to promote
competition. The 1996 Act provides certain exemptions for rural LECs such as
those operated by the Company. Under the FCC's August 1996 order implementing
most of the 1996 Act's interconnection provisions, rural LECs have the burden of
proving the availability of these exemptions.

      Prior to and since the enactment of the 1996 Act, the FCC and a number of
state legislative and regulatory bodies have also taken steps to foster local
exchange competition. Coincident with this recent movement toward increased
competition has been the gradual reduction of regulatory oversight of LECs.
These cumulative changes have led to the continued growth of various companies
providing services that compete with LECs' services. Wireless services entities
are also expected to increasingly compete with LECs.

      As mandated by the 1996 Act, in May 2001 the FCC modified its existing
universal service support mechanism for rural telephone companies. The FCC
adopted an interim mechanism for a five-year period, effective July 1, 2001,
based on embedded, or historical, costs that will provide predictable levels of
support to rural local exchange carriers, including substantially all of the
Company's local exchange carriers. The Company estimates (based on current
operations, the current nationwide average cost per loop and other factors) that
such ruling will increase the Company's level of universal service support
receipts by approximately $7 million on an annualized basis compared to previous
levels. During 2001 the Company's revenues from the federal universal service
fund totaled approximately $168.7 million (which includes $21.6 million from the
Verizon properties acquired in 2000). During 2000, such revenues totaled $146.4
million (which includes $8.3 million from the Verizon properties.)

      On October 11, 2001, the FCC modified its interstate access charge
rules and universal service support system for rate of return local exchange
carriers, which includes all of the Company's local exchange carriers. This
order, among other things, (i) increases the caps on the subscriber line charges
("SLC") to the levels paid by most subscribers nationwide; (ii) allows limited
SLC deaveraging, which is expected to enhance the competitiveness of rate of
return carriers by giving them pricing flexibility; (iii) lowers per minute
rates collected for federal access charges, which might increase competition
with CenturyTel's long distance operations to the extent other carriers seek to
take advantage of this change; (iv) creates a new explicit universal service
support mechanism that will replace other implicit support mechanisms in a
manner designed to ensure that rate structure changes do not affect the overall
recovery of interstate access costs by rate of return carriers serving high cost
areas and (v) terminates the FCC's proceeding on the represcription of the
authorized rate of return for rate of return LECs, which will remain at 11.25%.
The Company expects the order to be implemented on a revenue neutral basis for
interstate purposes, although there can be no assurance to this effect. Other
proposals submitted to the FCC by the Multi-Association Group representing rural
carriers were rejected or deferred for additional comment.

      Recent events affecting the Company. During the last few years, several
states in which the Company has substantial operations took legislative or
regulatory steps to further introduce competition into the LEC business. The
number of companies which have requested authorization to provide local exchange
service in the Company's service areas has increased in recent years, especially
in the newly-acquired Verizon markets, and it is anticipated that similar action
may be taken by others in the future.

      State alternative regulation plans recently adopted by certain of the
Company's LECs have also affected revenue growth recently. Although the Company
believes that these plans may be favorable in the future as additional revenue
streams are added and cost efficiencies are obtained, there can be no assurance
that current or future alternative regulation plans will not reduce future
revenue growth.

      Certain long distance carriers continue to request that the Company reduce
intrastate access tariffed rates for certain of its LECs. There is no assurance
that these requests will not result in reduced intrastate access revenues in the
future. In addition, the Company continues to receive pressure from other
cellular operators to reduce roaming rates in the Company's cellular markets. In
response, the Company anticipates that it will continue to enter into agreements
that will reduce its roaming rates from current levels. The Company further
anticipates that the adverse impact of reduced roaming rates may be partially
offset by increased roaming traffic.

      In August 2001, the Company was awarded an interim access rate increase by
the WPSC for the former Verizon properties in Wisconsin in an amount of
approximately $7.9 million annually. Such rates are subject to refund pending an
order establishing permanent rates.

      On October 31, 2001, the WPSC approved a permanent rate increase of $8.3
million annually for the local exchange properties that the Company acquired
from Ameritech in December 1998. The WPSC ordered the Company to refund a
portion ($1.5 million) of the previously approved interim rates. Such refund had
the effect of a one-time reduction in revenue of approximately $300,000 as the
Company was not recognizing 100% of the interim rates as revenue. Separately,
the WPSC ordered the Company to refund $14.7 million related to access charges
collected from interexchange carriers on the former Ameritech properties from
December 1998 through 2000. Such ruling was upheld upon appeal in Wisconsin
State Court. The Company is currently appealing this ruling to the State of
Wisconsin Court of Appeals. If this appeal is unsuccessful, the Company will
have to record a one-time charge of $.03 per share.

     In August 2001, the Arkansas Public Utility  Commission  ("APUC")  approved
tariff  amendments that limit the number of minutes  included for a flat rate in
certain optional calling plans in certain of the acquired Verizon markets.  Once
fully  implemented  in January 2002, the Company  anticipates  that these tariff
revisions will reduce the level of its operating  expenses by approximately  $20
million annually.

     On March 13, 2002, the Arkansas Court of Appeals  vacated two orders issued
by the APUC in connection  with the Company's  acquisition of its Arkansas' LECs
from  Verizon in July 2000,  and  remanded the case back to the APUC for further
hearings.  The Court took these  actions in response to  challenges to the rates
the Company has charged other LECs for intrastate  switched access service.  The
Company  intends  to  move  for a  rehearing  of the  Court's  decision,  and is
currently  evaluating  the  legal  and  financial  implications  of the  Court's
decision.

      Competition to provide traditional telephone services has thus far
affected large urban areas to a greater extent than rural, suburban and small
urban areas such as those in which the Company's telephone operations are
located. Although the Company does not believe that the increased competition it
has thus far experienced is likely to materially affect it in the near term, the
Company anticipates that regulatory changes and competitive pressures may result
in future revenue reductions. While the Company expects its telephone revenues
to continue to grow, its internal telephone revenue growth rate has started to
slow in recent years and may continue to slow during upcoming periods.

      The Company's wireless operations are subject to increased competition
from large wireless carriers offering nationwide calling plans. The Company does
not offer a nationwide calling plan at this time and may be hindered in its
ability to compete for customers seeking these plans. Additionally, several
wireless carriers have taken initial steps to abandon the TDMA standard used by
the Company and to provide enhanced "next generation" wireless services
utilizing different technologies. If the Company elects to continue to use the
TDMA standard or to forego implementation of enhanced wireless services, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to receive support from
vendors or to compete effectively against competitors using different
technologies or offering more services. For these and other reasons, in August
2001, the Company announced that it is exploring the potential separation of its
wireless business from its other operations.

     Other matters.  The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to
the  provisions  of SFAS 71,  under which the Company is required to account for
the economic  effects of the rate-making  process,  including the recognition of
depreciation  of plant and  equipment  over lives  approved by  regulators.  The
ongoing applicability of SFAS 71 to the Company's regulated telephone operations
is being monitored due to the changing  regulatory,  competitive and legislative
environments. When the regulated operations of the Company no longer qualify for
the  application  of SFAS 71,  the net  adjustments  required  may  result  in a
material,  extraordinary,  noncash charge against earnings. The properties to be
acquired  from Verizon in 2002 are not  expected to be  accounted  for under the
provisions of SFAS 71. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information.

      The Company has certain obligations based on federal, state and local laws
relating to the protection of the environment. Costs of compliance through 2001
have not been material, and the Company currently has no reason to believe that
such costs will become material.

Item 7a.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

      Approximately 90% of the Company's long-term debt obligations are fixed
rate. At December 31, 2001, the fair value of the Company's long-term debt was
estimated to be $3.0 billion based on the overall weighted average rate of the
Company's long-term debt of 6.7% and an overall weighted maturity of 10 years
compared to terms and rates currently available in long-term financing markets.
For purposes hereof, market risk is estimated as the potential decrease in fair
value of the Company's long-term debt resulting from a hypothetical increase of
67 basis points in interest rates (which represents ten percent of the Company's
overall weighted average borrowing rate). Such an increase in interest rates
would result in approximately a $96.4 million decrease in fair value of the
Company's long-term debt. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owed $353.0
million of debt on a floating-rate basis.

      As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding an interest rate swap
relating to $191.1 million of its floating rate debt designed to eliminate the
variability of cash flows in the payment of interest related to such debt. Under
this swap, which expires in August 2002, the Company realizes a fixed effective
rate of 4.845% and receives or makes settlement payments based upon the
three-month London InterBank Offered Rate, with settlement and rate reset dates
at three-month intervals through the expiration date.

<PAGE>


Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                              Report of Management
The Shareholders
CenturyTel, Inc.:

      Management has prepared and is responsible for the Company's consolidated
financial statements. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America and necessarily include amounts determined using our best judgments
and estimates with consideration given to materiality.

      The Company maintains internal control systems and related policies and
procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the accounting records
accurately reflect business transactions and that the transactions are in
accordance with management's authorization. The design, monitoring and revision
of the systems of internal control involve, among other things, our judgment
with respect to the relative cost and expected benefits of specific control
measures. Additionally, the Company maintains an internal auditing function
which independently evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls, policies
and procedures and formally reports on the adequacy and effectiveness thereof.

      The Company's consolidated financial statements have been audited by KPMG
LLP, independent certified public accountants, who have expressed their opinion
with respect to the fairness of the consolidated financial statements. Their
audit was conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
the United States of America, which include the consideration of the Company's
internal controls to the extent necessary to form an independent opinion on the
consolidated financial statements prepared by management.

      The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed of independent
directors who are not officers or employees of the Company. The Committee meets
periodically with the independent certified public accountants, internal
auditors and management. The Committee considers the independence of the
external auditors and the audit scope and discusses internal control, financial
and reporting matters. Both the independent and internal auditors have free
access to the Committee.

/s/  R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


<PAGE>


                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Board of Directors
CenturyTel, Inc.:

     We have audited the consolidated financial statements of CenturyTel, Inc.
and subsidiaries as listed in Item 14a(i). In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement
schedules as listed in Item 14a(ii). These consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CenturyTel,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ KPMG LLP
KPMG LLP

Shreveport, Louisiana
January 30, 2002


<PAGE>
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Year ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   2001           2000           1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   (Dollars, except per share amounts,
                                                                        and shares in thousands)
<S>                                                        <C>                <C>             <C>
OPERATING REVENUES
     Telephone                                             $   1,505,733      1,253,969       1,126,112
     Wireless                                                    437,965        443,569         422,269
     Other                                                       173,771        148,388         128,288
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total operating revenues                             2,117,469      1,845,926       1,676,669
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING EXPENSES
     Cost of sales and operating expenses                      1,086,166        932,457         819,784
     Depreciation and amortization                               473,384        388,056         348,816
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total operating expenses                             1,559,550      1,320,513       1,168,600
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING INCOME                                                 557,919        525,413         508,069
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
     Nonrecurring gains and losses, net                          199,971         20,593          62,808
     Interest expense                                           (225,523)      (183,302)       (150,557)
     Income from unconsolidated cellular entities                 27,460         26,986          27,675
     Minority interest                                           (11,812)       (10,201)        (27,913)
     Other income and expense                                      5,041          6,696           9,190
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total other income (expense)                            (4,863)      (139,228)        (78,797)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE                                 553,056        386,185         429,272
     Income tax expense                                          210,025        154,711         189,503
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NET INCOME                                                 $     343,031        231,474         239,769
=======================================================================================================
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE                                   $        2.43           1.65            1.72
=======================================================================================================
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE                                 $        2.41           1.63            1.70
=======================================================================================================
DIVIDENDS PER COMMON SHARE                                 $         .20            .19             .18
=======================================================================================================
AVERAGE BASIC SHARES OUTSTANDING                                 140,743        140,069         138,848
=======================================================================================================
AVERAGE DILUTED SHARES OUTSTANDING                               142,307        141,864         141,432
=======================================================================================================
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Year ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   2001           2000           1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                            <C>              <C>             <C>
NET INCOME                                                     $ 343,031        231,474         239,769
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, NET OF TAXES
   Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during period,
    net of $5,385, ($20,941) and $38,473 taxes                     9,999        (38,891)         71,449
   Less: reclassification adjustment for gains included
    in net income, net of $19,100 and $7,702 taxes               (35,470)             -         (14,304)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Other comprehensive income, net of ($13,715),
    ($20,941) and $30,771 taxes                                  (25,471)       (38,891)         57,145
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                                           $ 317,560        192,583         296,914
=======================================================================================================
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      December 31,
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                2001               2000
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                 (Dollars in thousands)
                                     ASSETS
<S>                                                                     <C>                        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS
     Cash and cash equivalents                                          $      13,362              19,039
     Accounts receivable
         Customers, less allowance of $16,359 and $12,857                     147,259             182,454
         Other                                                                106,835             124,711
     Materials and supplies, at average cost                                   20,239              38,532
     Other                                                                     12,578              11,768
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total current assets                                                 300,273             376,504
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NET PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                                           2,999,563           2,959,293
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
     Excess cost of net assets acquired, less accumulated
      amortization of $288,760 and $219,809                                 2,471,484           2,509,033
     Other                                                                    547,364             548,460
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total investments and other assets                                 3,018,848           3,057,493
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TOTAL ASSETS                                                            $   6,318,684           6,393,290
=========================================================================================================

                             LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
     Current maturities of long-term debt                               $     955,834             149,962
     Short-term debt                                                           53,000             276,000
     Accounts payable                                                          87,439             127,287
     Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
         Salaries and benefits                                                 47,129              33,859
         Taxes                                                                 42,711              40,023
         Interest                                                              49,358              52,011
         Other                                                                 18,771              23,349
     Advance billings and customer deposits                                    39,714              40,879
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total current liabilities                                          1,293,956             743,370
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LONG-TERM DEBT                                                              2,087,500           3,050,292
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES                                        599,848             567,549
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
     Common stock, $1.00 par value, authorized 350,000,000 shares,
      issued and outstanding 141,232,806 and 140,667,251 shares               141,233             140,667
     Paid-in capital                                                          524,668             509,840
     Unrealized holding gain on investments, net of taxes                           -              25,471
     Retained earnings                                                      1,666,004           1,351,626
     Unearned ESOP shares                                                      (2,500)             (3,500)
     Preferred stock - non-redeemable                                           7,975               7,975
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total stockholders' equity                                         2,337,380           2,032,079
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                            $   6,318,684           6,393,290
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                                                                             Year ended December 31,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                       2001           2000           1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                             <C>                  <C>           <C>
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
     Net income                                                 $    343,031         231,474       239,769
     Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
       cash provided by operating activities
        Depreciation and amortization                                473,384         388,056       348,816
        Income from unconsolidated cellular entities                 (27,460)        (26,986)      (27,675)
        Minority interest                                             11,812          10,201        27,913
        Deferred income taxes                                         56,645          41,820       (17,139)
        Nonrecurring gains and losses, net                          (199,971)        (20,593)      (62,808)
        Changes in current assets and current liabilities
           Accounts receivable                                        53,071         (82,252)      (15,181)
           Accounts payable                                          (39,848)         48,653       (11,469)
           Accrued taxes                                               2,688            (967)      (59,571)
           Other current assets and other current
            liabilities, net                                          20,916           3,605        (1,354)
        Increase in noncurrent assets                                (65,698)        (46,026)      (30,375)
        Increase (decrease) in other noncurrent liabilities            6,656           4,087        (5,311)
        Other, net                                                    30,136          11,394        23,087
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Net cash provided by operating activities                 665,362         562,466       408,702
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
     Acquisitions, net of cash acquired                              (47,131)     (1,540,856)      (20,972)
     Payments for property, plant and equipment                     (506,727)       (449,537)     (389,980)
     Proceeds from sale of assets                                    166,245          29,495       484,467
     Collection of note receivable                                    86,502               -             -
     Distributions from unconsolidated cellular entities              30,856          35,842        22,219
     Contribution from minority investor                                   -          20,000             -
     Purchase of life insurance investment, net                       (1,086)         (5,753)       (2,545)
     Other, net                                                       (4,325)         (3,267)      (23,416)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities      (275,666)     (1,914,076)       69,773
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
     Proceeds from issuance of debt                                    3,896       2,715,852        15,533
     Payments of debt                                               (379,516)     (1,375,895)     (438,399)
     Payment of deferred hedge contracts                                   -          (4,345)            -
     Proceeds from issuance of common stock                            7,351           7,996        19,182
     Payment of debt issuance costs                                        -          (4,274)            -
     Cash dividends                                                  (28,653)        (26,815)      (25,413)
     Other, net                                                        1,549           1,490         1,520
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities      (395,373)      1,314,009      (427,577)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                  (5,677)        (37,601)       50,898
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                        19,039          56,640         5,742
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR                        $     13,362          19,039        56,640
==========================================================================================================
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>


                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Year ended December 31,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                          2001         2000          1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         (Dollars and shares in thousands)
<S>                                                                 <C>               <C>          <C>
COMMON STOCK
     Balance at beginning of year                                   $    140,667      139,946      138,083
     Conversion of convertible securities into common stock                  254          254          330
     Issuance of common stock through dividend
       reinvestment, incentive and benefit plans                             312          467        1,533
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Balance at end of year                                     141,233      140,667      139,946
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PAID-IN CAPITAL
     Balance at beginning of year                                        509,840      493,432      451,535
     Conversion of convertible securities into common stock                3,046        3,046        3,101
     Issuance of common stock through dividend
       reinvestment, incentive and benefit plans                           7,039        7,529       17,649
     Amortization of unearned compensation and other                       4,743        5,833       21,147
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Balance at end of year                                     524,668      509,840      493,432
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UNREALIZED HOLDING GAIN ON INVESTMENTS, NET OF TAXES
     Balance at beginning of year                                         25,471       64,362        7,217
     Change in unrealized holding gain on investments,
       net of taxes                                                      (25,471)     (38,891)      57,145
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Balance at end of year                                           -       25,471       64,362
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RETAINED EARNINGS
     Balance at beginning of year                                      1,351,626    1,146,967      932,611
     Net income                                                          343,031      231,474      239,769
     Cash dividends declared
         Common stock - $.20, $.19 and $.18 per share                    (28,254)     (26,416)     (25,010)
         Preferred stock                                                    (399)        (399)        (403)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Balance at end of year                                   1,666,004    1,351,626    1,146,967
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UNEARNED ESOP SHARES
     Balance at beginning of year                                         (3,500)      (4,690)      (6,070)
     Release of ESOP shares                                                1,000        1,190        1,380
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Balance at end of year                                      (2,500)      (3,500)      (4,690)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PREFERRED STOCK - NON-REDEEMABLE
     Balance at beginning of year                                          7,975        7,975        8,106
     Conversion of preferred stock into common stock                           -            -         (131)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Balance at end of year                                       7,975        7,975        7,975
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                                          $  2,337,380    2,032,079    1,847,992

COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING
     Balance at beginning of year                                        140,667      139,946      138,083
     Conversion of convertible securities into common stock                  254          254          330
     Issuance of common stock through dividend
       reinvestment, incentive and benefit plans                             312          467        1,533
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Balance at end of year                                     141,233      140,667      139,946
==========================================================================================================
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 2001

(1)    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of consolidation - The consolidated financial statements of
CenturyTel, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") include the accounts of
CenturyTel, Inc. ("CenturyTel") and its majority-owned subsidiaries and
partnerships. The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." Investments in cellular
entities where the Company does not own a majority interest are accounted for
using the equity method of accounting.

Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Revenue recognition - Revenues are generally recognized and earned when evidence
of an arrangement exists, service has been rendered, the selling price is
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Certain of the Company's
telephone subsidiaries participate in revenue sharing arrangements with other
telephone companies for interstate revenue and for certain intrastate revenue.
Such sharing arrangements are funded by toll revenue and/or access charges
within state jurisdictions and by access charges in the interstate market.
Revenues earned through the various sharing arrangements are initially recorded
based on the Company's estimates.

Property, plant and equipment - Telephone plant is stated substantially at
original cost. Normal retirements of telephone plant are charged against
accumulated depreciation, along with the costs of removal, less salvage, with no
gain or loss recognized. Renewals and betterments of plant and equipment are
capitalized while repairs, as well as renewals of minor items, are charged to
operating expense. Depreciation of telephone plant is provided on the straight
line method using class or overall group rates acceptable to regulatory
authorities; such rates range from 1.8% to 25%.

Non-telephone property is stated at cost and, when sold or retired, a gain or
loss is recognized. Depreciation of such property is provided on the straight
line method over estimated service lives ranging from three to 30 years.

Long-lived assets - Through December 31, 2001, in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-lived Assets and for Long-lived Assets to be Disposed of" ("SFAS 121"), the
carrying value of long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and
allocated goodwill, was reviewed for impairment at least annually, or whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicated that such carrying value was not
recoverable, by assessing the recoverability of such carrying value through
estimated undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the
assets or the acquired business. Through December 31, 2001, substantially all of
the Company's goodwill was being amortized over 40 years. In accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), effective January 1, 2002, goodwill will no
longer be subject to amortization but instead will be tested for impairment at
least annually. Effective January 1, 2002, Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived
Assets" ("SFAS 144"), addresses financial accounting and reporting for the
impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, excluding goodwill. SFAS 144
retains the fundamental recognition and measurement provisions of SFAS 121.

Affiliated transactions - Certain service subsidiaries of CenturyTel provide
installation and maintenance services, materials and supplies, and managerial,
operational, technical, accounting and administrative services to subsidiaries.
In addition, CenturyTel provides and bills management services to subsidiaries
and in certain instances makes interest bearing advances to finance construction
of plant and purchases of equipment. These transactions are recorded by the
Company's telephone subsidiaries at their cost to the extent permitted by
regulatory authorities. Intercompany profit on transactions with regulated
affiliates is limited to a reasonable return on investment and has not been
eliminated in connection with consolidating the results of operations of
CenturyTel and its subsidiaries. Intercompany profit on transactions with
nonregulated affiliates has been eliminated.

Income taxes - CenturyTel files a consolidated federal income tax return with
its eligible subsidiaries. The Company uses the asset and liability method of
accounting for income taxes under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are
established for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between
the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases. Investment tax credits related to telephone plant have
been deferred and are being amortized as a reduction of federal income tax
expense over the estimated useful lives of the assets giving rise to the
credits.

Derivative financial instruments - Effective January 1, 2001, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"). SFAS 133 requires
all derivative instruments be recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair
value on the balance sheet. The Company had no derivative instruments
outstanding at January 1, 2001 and thus no transition adjustment was recorded
upon adoption of SFAS 133. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding
an interest rate swap relating to $191.1 million of its floating rate debt
designed to eliminate the variability of cash flows in the payment of interest
related to such debt. The swap expires in August 2002. The Company realizes a
fixed effective rate of 4.845% and receives or makes settlement payments based
upon the three-month London InterBank Offered Rate, with settlement and rate
reset dates at three-month intervals through the expiration date. The Company
does not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or other
speculative purposes.

Earnings per share - Basic earnings per share amounts are determined on the
basis of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
year. Diluted earnings per share gives effect to all potential dilutive common
shares that were outstanding during the period.

Stock compensation - The Company accounts for employee stock compensation plans
using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," as allowed by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation."

Cash equivalents - The Company considers short-term investments with a maturity
at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Reclassifications - Certain amounts previously reported for prior years have
been reclassified to conform with the 2001 presentation.

(2)    ACQUISITIONS

       On July 31, 2000 and September 29, 2000, affiliates of the Company
acquired over 490,000 telephone access lines and related assets from Verizon
Communications, Inc. ("Verizon") in four separate transactions for approximately
$1.5 billion in cash. Under these transactions:

o On July 31, 2000, the Company purchased approximately 231,000 telephone access
lines and related local exchange assets comprising 106 exchanges throughout
Arkansas for approximately $842 million in cash.

o On July 31, 2000, Spectra Communications Group, LLC ("Spectra") purchased
approximately 127,000 telephone access lines and related local exchange assets
comprising 107 exchanges throughout Missouri for approximately $297 million
cash. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owns 75.7% of Spectra, which was
organized to acquire and operate these Missouri properties. At closing, the
Company made a preferred equity investment in Spectra of approximately $55
million (which represented a 57.1% interest) and financed substantially all of
the remainder of the purchase price. In the first quarter of 2001, the Company
purchased an additional 18.6% interest in Spectra for $47.1 million.

o On September 29, 2000, the Company purchased approximately 70,500 telephone
access lines and related local exchange assets comprising 42 exchanges
throughout Wisconsin for approximately $197 million in cash.

o On September 29, 2000, Telephone USA of Wisconsin, LLC ("TelUSA") purchased
approximately 62,900 telephone access lines and related local exchange assets
comprising 35 exchanges throughout Wisconsin for approximately $172 million in
cash. The Company owns 89% of TelUSA, which was organized to acquire and operate
these Wisconsin properties. At closing, the Company made an equity investment in
TelUSA of approximately $37.8 million and financed substantially all of the
remainder of the purchase price.

       To finance these acquisitions on a short-term basis, the Company borrowed
$1.157 billion on a floating-rate basis under its $1.5 billion credit facility
with Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., and borrowed $300 million on a
floating-rate basis under its 1997 credit facility with Bank of America, N.A.

       On October 19, 2000, the Company issued $500 million of 8.375% Senior
Notes, Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing date of October 15, 2002). The net
proceeds of approximately $908 million (excluding the Company's payments of
approximately $12.3 million associated with related interest rate hedging) were
used to repay a portion of the $1.457 billion of aggregate indebtedness the
Company incurred under its credit facilities in connection with the Verizon
acquisitions.

       The following pro forma information represents the consolidated results
of operations of the Company as if the above-described Verizon acquisitions had
been consummated as of January 1, 2000 and 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                          2000                    1999
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  (Dollars, except per share
                                                    amounts, in thousands)
                                                          (unaudited)

<S>                                        <C>                       <C>
Operating revenues                         $ 2,054,198               2,015,992
Net income                                 $   210,336                 198,659
Basic earnings per share                   $      1.50                    1.43
Diluted earnings per share                 $      1.48                    1.41
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

       The pro forma information above is not necessarily indicative of the
operating results that would have occurred if the Verizon acquisitions had been
consummated as of January 1 of each respective period, nor is it necessarily
indicative of subsequent or future operating results. The pro forma information
does not give effect to any potential revenue enhancements or cost synergies or
other operating efficiencies that have resulted or could result from the
acquisitions. The actual results of operations of the Verizon properties are
included in the Company's consolidated financial statements only from the date
of acquisition.

(3)    INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED CELLULAR ENTITIES

       The Company's share of earnings from cellular entities in which it does
not own a majority interest (which is included in "Income from unconsolidated
cellular entities" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income) was $28.6
million, $28.1 million and $28.8 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively,
and is net of amortization of goodwill attributable to such investments which
totaled $1.1 million for all three periods. Over 71% of the 2001 income from
unconsolidated cellular entities was attributable to the following investments.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                              Ownership interest
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                   <C>
GTE Mobilnet of Austin Limited Partnership                            35%
Alltel Cellular Associates of Arkansas Limited Partnership            36%
Detroit SMSA Limited Partnership                                       3%
Michigan RSA #9 Limited Partnership                                   43%
Cellular North Michigan Network General Partnership                   49%
Lafayette MSA Limited Partnership                                     49%
Wisconsin RSA #1 Limited Partnership                                  42%
Wisconsin RSA #7 Limited Partnership                                  23%
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

       Based primarily on data furnished to the Company by third parties, the
following summarizes the unaudited combined assets, liabilities and equity, and
the unaudited combined results of operations, of the cellular entities in which
the Company's investments (as of December 31, 2001 and 2000) were accounted for
by the equity method.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                     2001             2000
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                (Dollars in thousands)
                                                                      (unaudited)
<S>                                                       <C>                   <C>
Assets
     Current assets                                       $    243,536          305,366
     Property and other noncurrent assets                    1,058,410          996,702
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          $  1,301,946        1,302,068
=======================================================================================

Liabilities and equity
     Current liabilities                                  $     85,860          153,797
     Noncurrent liabilities                                    235,926          138,642
     Equity                                                    980,160        1,009,629
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          $  1,301,946        1,302,068
=======================================================================================

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                            2001           2000           1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)
                                                               (unaudited)
<S>                                        <C>                <C>             <C>
Results of operations
     Revenues                              $   1,719,370      1,539,459       1,398,314
     Operating income                      $     439,687        495,971         427,274
     Net income                            $     434,495        481,923         416,740
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(4)    INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS

       Investments and other assets at December 31, 2001 and 2000 were composed
of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                          2001              2000
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                             <C>                 <C>
Excess cost of net assets acquired, less accumulated
  amortization                                                  $ 2,471,484         2,509,033
Billing system development costs                                    139,503            73,805
Investments in unconsolidated cellular entities                     102,056           117,942
Cash surrender value of life insurance contracts                     99,835            96,065
Marketable equity securities                                              -            42,801
Other                                                               205,970           217,847
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                $ 3,018,848         3,057,493
===============================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles of $74.9 million, $60.1
million and $52.0 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, is included in
"Depreciation and amortization" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of
Income. In accordance with SFAS 142, effective January 1, 2002, goodwill will no
longer be subject to amortization but instead will be tested for impairment at
least annually.

       The Company is in the process of developing an integrated billing and
customer care system. The costs to develop such system have been capitalized in
accordance with Statement of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," and aggregated $139.5
million and $73.8 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Such
costs are expected to be amortized over a twenty-year period once the system is
fully operational (which is expected to occur in early 2003).

<PAGE>


(5)    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

       Net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was
composed of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                  2001                2000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                   <C>                      <C>
Telephone, at original cost
      Cable and wire                                  $   3,009,720            2,817,797
      Central office                                      1,829,945            1,656,898
      General support                                       340,416              327,766
      Information origination/termination                    42,038               53,344
      Construction in progress                               64,560              136,755
      Other                                                   5,576                7,248
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          5,292,255            4,999,808
      Accumulated depreciation                           (2,839,268)          (2,552,648)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          2,452,987            2,447,160
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Wireless, at cost
      Cell site                                             420,943              366,855
      General support                                       108,670              105,951
      Construction in progress                               38,881               49,799
      Other                                                     341                   79
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            568,835              522,684
      Accumulated depreciation                             (305,414)            (261,401)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            263,421              261,283
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Other, at cost
      General support                                       309,500              272,286
      Fiber network                                          72,410               60,649
      Other                                                  65,010               59,089
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            446,920              392,024
      Accumulated depreciation                             (163,765)            (141,174)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            283,155              250,850
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net property, plant and equipment                     $   2,999,563            2,959,293
========================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Depreciation expense was $398.5 million, $328.0 million and $296.8
million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The composite depreciation rate
for telephone properties was 6.8% for 2001, 7.2% for 2000 and 7.0% for 1999.


<PAGE>


(6)    LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM DEBT

       The Company's long-term debt as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 was as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                                                2001          2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                          (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                                 <C>                <C>
CenturyTel
      2.21%* senior credit facility, due through 2002               $     300,000        300,000
      4.85% note, due through 2002                                        199,125        250,625
      Senior notes and debentures:
          7.75% Series A, due 2004                                         50,000         50,000
          8.25% Series B, due 2024                                        100,000        100,000
          6.55% Series C, due 2005                                         50,000         50,000
          7.20% Series D, due 2025                                        100,000        100,000
          6.15% Series E, due 2005                                        100,000        100,000
          6.30% Series F, due 2008                                        240,000        240,000
          6.875% Series G, due 2028                                       425,000        425,000
          8.375% Series H, due 2010                                       500,000        500,000
          7.75% Series I, remarketable 2002                               400,000        400,000
          9.38% notes, due through 2003                                     7,975         12,000
      6.86%** Employee Stock Ownership
       Plan commitment, due in installments through 2004                    2,500          3,500
      Net unamortized premium and discounts                                11,036         12,012
      Other                                                                   175            201
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Total CenturyTel                                         2,485,811      2,543,338
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subsidiaries
      First mortgage debt
          5.91%** notes, payable to agencies of the
            U. S. government and cooperative lending
            associations, due in installments through 2025                265,240        278,079
          7.98% notes, due through 2002                                     5,419          5,582
      Other debt
          7.03%** unsecured medium-term notes, due through 2008           271,135        333,158
          6.88%** notes, due in installments through 2020                   6,725         23,365
          6.50% note                                                            -          3,300
          7.51%** capital lease obligations, due through 2008               9,004         13,432
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Total subsidiaries                                         557,523        656,916
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total long-term debt                                                    3,043,334      3,200,254
Less current maturities                                                   955,834        149,962
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term debt, excluding current maturities                        $   2,087,500      3,050,292
================================================================================================
</TABLE>
*variable interest rate at December 31, 2001
** weighted average interest rate at December 31, 2001

       The approximate annual debt maturities for the five years subsequent to
December 31, 2001 are as follows: 2002 - $955.8 million (assuming the Company's
Series I notes are redeemed by the Company in 2002); 2003 - $69.5 million; 2004
- $72.0 million; 2005 - $246.0 million; and 2006 - $114.4 million.

       Certain of the loan agreements of CenturyTel and its subsidiaries contain
various restrictions, among which are limitations regarding issuance of
additional debt, payment of cash dividends, reacquisition of capital stock and
other matters. In addition, the transfer of funds from certain consolidated
subsidiaries to CenturyTel is restricted by various loan agreements.
Subsidiaries which have loans from government agencies and cooperative lending
associations, or have issued first mortgage bonds, generally may not loan or
advance any funds to CenturyTel, but may pay dividends if certain financial
ratios are met. At December 31, 2001, restricted net assets of subsidiaries were
$588.4 million and subsidiaries' retained earnings in excess of amounts
restricted by debt covenants totaled $1.8 billion. At December 31, 2001, all of
the consolidated retained earnings reflected on the balance sheet was available
under CenturyTel's loan agreements for the declaration of dividends.

       Most of the Company's telephone property, plant and equipment is pledged
to secure the long-term debt of subsidiaries.

       During 2000, the Company borrowed $1.157 billion on a floating-rate basis
under its 364-day, $1.5 billion credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. and
Citibank, N.A., and borrowed $300 million on a floating-rate basis under its
1997 $300 million credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. The proceeds were
utilized to finance a substantial portion of the Verizon acquisition on a
short-term basis. See Note 2 for additional information.

       On October 19, 2000, the Company issued $500 million of 8.375% Senior
Notes, Series H, due 2010, and $400 million of 7.75% Remarketable Senior Notes,
Series I, due 2012 (with a remarketing date of October 15, 2002) under its $2.0
billion shelf registration statement filed in May 2000. The Series I notes will
bear interest at the rate of 7.75% per year through October 15, 2002 (which is
the first remarketing date), and then at a fixed or floating rate. On the
remarketing date, the Series I notes will be purchased and remarketed by the
Company's remarketing dealer or mandatorily redeemed by the Company. The net
proceeds from the sale of the Series H and I notes of approximately $908 million
(including the payment made to the Company for the remarketing option granted to
the remarketing dealer, but excluding the Company's payments associated with
related interest rate hedging) were used to repay a portion of the $1.457
billion of aggregate indebtedness the Company incurred under its credit
facilities in connection with the Verizon acquisition.

      Subsequent to the issuance of permanent financing, the committed amount
under the Company's 364-day, $1.5 billion credit facility was reduced to $500
million in accordance with its terms. The Company also has outstanding
indebtedness under other short-term revolving credit facilities and through its
commercial paper program. The total amount outstanding under these short-term
facilities aggregated $53.0 million at December 31, 2001 and $276.0 million at
December 31, 2000. The weighted average interest rate of the Company's
short-term debt was 2.6% and 7.3% at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

      As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding an interest rate swap
relating to $191.1 million of its floating rate debt designed to eliminate the
variability of cash flows in the payment of interest related to such debt. Under
this swap, which expires in August 2002, the Company realizes a fixed effective
rate of 4.845% and receives or makes settlement payments based upon the 3-month
London InterBank Offered Rate, with settlement and rate reset dates at
three-month intervals through the expiration date.

       At December 31, 2001, the Company had available $470.1 million of undrawn
committed bank lines of credit and the Company's telephone subsidiaries had
available for use $123.0 million of commitments for long-term financing from the
Rural Utilities Service and Rural Telephone Bank.

(7)    DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES

       Deferred credits and other liabilities at December 31, 2001 and 2000 were
composed of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                2001              2000
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                  <C>                    <C>
Deferred federal and state income taxes              $    345,772           298,451
Accrued postretirement benefit costs                      128,419           118,614
Minority interest                                          66,747            88,295
Regulatory liability - income taxes                         5,657             8,528
Deferred investment tax credits                               530             1,053
Other                                                      52,723            52,608
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     $    599,848           567,549
===================================================================================
</TABLE>

(8)    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Common stock - Unissued shares of CenturyTel common stock were reserved as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                        2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              (In thousands)
<S>                                                                <C>
Incentive compensation programs                                    8,388
Acquisitions                                                       4,572
Employee stock purchase plan                                       4,956
Dividend reinvestment plan                                           557
Conversion of convertible preferred stock                            435
Other employee benefit plans                                       2,218
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  21,126
============================================================================
</TABLE>

       Under CenturyTel's Articles of Incorporation each share of common stock
beneficially owned continuously by the same person since May 30, 1987 generally
entitles the holder thereof to ten votes per share. All other shares entitle the
holder to one vote per share. At December 31, 2001, the holders of 10.1 million
shares of common stock were entitled to ten votes per share.

Preferred stock - As of December 31, 2001, CenturyTel had 2.0 million shares of
authorized convertible preferred stock, $25 par value per share. At December 31,
2001 and 2000, there were 319,000 shares of outstanding preferred stock. Holders
of outstanding CenturyTel preferred stock are entitled to receive cumulative
dividends, receive preferential distributions equal to $25 per share plus unpaid
dividends upon CenturyTel's liquidation and vote as a single class with the
holders of common stock.

Shareholders' Rights Plan - In 1996 the Board of Directors declared a dividend
of one preference share purchase right for each common share outstanding. Such
rights become exercisable if and when a potential acquiror takes certain steps
to acquire 15% or more of CenturyTel's common stock. Upon the occurrence of such
an acquisition, each right held by shareholders other than the acquiror may be
exercised to receive that number of shares of common stock or other securities
of CenturyTel (or, in certain situations, the acquiring company) which at the
time of such transaction will have a market value of two times the exercise
price of the right.

(9)    POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

       The Company sponsors health care plans that provide postretirement
benefits to all qualified retired employees.

       The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances
for the benefit obligation and the plan assets.

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                             2001         2000         1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                               <C>                <C>          <C>
Change in benefit obligation
     Benefit obligation at beginning of year                      $    165,266       156,724      172,323
     Service cost                                                        6,373         4,727        4,850
     Interest cost                                                      14,512        10,907       10,089
     Plan amendments                                                         -             -       (2,492)
     Participant contributions                                             548           677          419
     Actuarial (gain) loss                                              40,005           957      (23,855)
     Benefits paid                                                     (10,832)       (8,726)      (4,610)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefit obligation at end of year                                 $    215,872       165,266      156,724
=========================================================================================================

Change in plan assets (primarily listed stocks and bonds)
     Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year               $     39,873        41,781       35,799
     Return on assets                                                   (1,379)         (270)       2,961
     Employer contributions                                              8,345         6,411        7,212
     Participant contributions                                             548           677          419
     Benefits paid                                                     (10,832)       (8,726)      (4,610)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value of plan assets at end of year                          $     36,555        39,873       41,781
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 2001, 2000 and 1999 included
the following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                       2001         2000         1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                    <C>                  <C>          <C>
Service cost                                           $      6,373         4,727        4,850
Interest cost                                                14,512        10,907       10,089
Expected return on plan assets                               (3,987)       (4,178)      (3,580)
Amortization of unrecognized actuarial loss                   1,337            26           54
Amortization of unrecognized prior service cost                (129)         (129)        (129)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost               $     18,106        11,353       11,284
==============================================================================================
</TABLE>

       The following table sets forth the amounts recognized as liabilities for
postretirement benefits at December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                           2001         2000         1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                             <C>               <C>          <C>
Benefit obligation                              $   (215,872)     (165,266)    (156,724)
Fair value of plan assets                             36,555        39,873       41,781
Unamortized prior service cost                        (1,046)       (1,175)      (1,303)
Unrecognized net actuarial loss                       49,655         6,109          707
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued benefit cost                            $   (130,708)     (120,459)    (115,539)
=======================================================================================
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

       Assumptions used in accounting for postretirement benefits as of December
31, 2001 and 2000 were:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            2001         2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>          <C>
Weighted average assumptions
       Discount rate                                         7.0%         7.25
       Expected return on plan assets                       10.0%         10.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

       For measurement purposes, a 6.5% annual rate in the per capita cost of
covered health care benefits was assumed for 2002 and beyond. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost rates would have the
following effects:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               1-Percentage         1-Percentage
                                                              Point Increase       Point Decrease
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                            <C>                      <C>
Effect on total of service and interest cost components        $   1,455                (1,459)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation                    $  11,117               (10,393)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(10)   RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS

       CenturyTel and certain subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans
for substantially all employees. CenturyTel also sponsors an Outside Directors'
Retirement Plan and a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide
directors and officers, respectively, with supplemental retirement, death and
disability benefits.

       The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances
for the aggregate benefit obligation and the plan assets for the Company's
retirement and savings plans.

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                             2001         2000         1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                              <C>                 <C>          <C>
Change in benefit obligation
      Benefit obligation at beginning of year                    $     249,835       205,455      217,747
      Service cost                                                       7,760         5,928        5,226
      Interest cost                                                     17,829        15,381       13,817
      Plan amendments                                                    1,205         3,387            -
      Acquisition                                                            -        35,824            -
      Actuarial (gain) loss                                              9,065        (3,726)     (19,844)
      Benefits paid                                                    (14,204)      (12,414)     (11,491)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefit obligation at end of year                                $     271,490       249,835      205,455
=========================================================================================================

Change in plan assets (primarily listed stocks and bonds)
      Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year             $     329,459       319,901      278,678
      Return on plan assets                                            (33,184)      (14,991)      52,183
      Employer contributions                                             1,377           572          531
      Acquisition                                                            -        36,391            -
      Benefits paid                                                    (14,204)      (12,414)     (11,491)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value of plan assets at end of year                         $     283,448       329,459      319,901
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Net periodic pension benefit for 2001, 2000 and 1999 included the
following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                      2001         2000         1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                  <C>                   <C>          <C>
Service cost                                         $       7,760         5,928        5,226
Interest cost                                               17,829        15,381       13,817
Expected return on plan assets                             (31,901)      (31,586)     (26,824)
Recognized net gains                                        (2,325)       (7,107)      (3,176)
Net amortization and deferral                                  301          (602)        (235)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic pension benefit                         $      (8,336)      (17,986)     (11,192)
=============================================================================================
</TABLE>

       The following table sets forth the combined plans' funded status and
amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheet at December 31,
2001, 2000 and 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                 2001         2000         1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                  <C>                <C>          <C>
Benefit obligation                                   $    (271,490)     (249,835)    (205,455)
Fair value of plan assets                                  283,448       329,459      319,901
Unrecognized transition asset                               (1,404)       (1,648)      (1,892)
Unamortized prior service cost                               5,017         4,126        1,031
Unrecognized net actuarial (gain) loss                      26,782       (49,336)    (100,052)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid benefit cost                                 $      42,353        32,766       13,533
=============================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Assumptions used in accounting for the pension plans as of December 2001
and 2000 were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               2001         2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>
Discount rates                                                 7.0%         7.25
Expected long-term rate of return on assets               8.0-10.0%     8.0-10.0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

       CenturyTel sponsors an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") which
covers most employees with one year of service with the Company and is funded by
Company contributions determined annually by the Board of Directors. The
Company's expense related to the ESOP during 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $7.5
million, $9.5 million, and $9.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2001, the
ESOP owned an aggregate of 8.2 million shares of CenturyTel common stock.

       CenturyTel and certain subsidiaries also sponsor qualified profit sharing
plans pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "401(k)
Plans") which are available to substantially all employees of the Company. The
Company's matching contributions to the 401(k) Plans were $6.6 million in 2001,
$6.1 million in 2000 and $6.1 million in 1999.

(11)   INCOME TAXES

       The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
2001 and 2000 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
December 31,                                                         2001             2000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                           <C>                     <C>
Deferred tax assets
     Postretirement benefit costs                             $     31,766            30,834
     Regulatory support                                             12,163            13,504
     Net operating loss carryforwards                               21,991             8,302
     Regulatory liability                                            2,175             3,191
     Long-term debt                                                  6,606             7,765
     Other employee benefits                                         8,452             7,335
     Other                                                          10,291            11,055
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Gross deferred tax assets                                  93,444            81,986
         Less valuation allowance                                  (21,991)           (8,302)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net deferred tax assets                                    71,453            73,684
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deferred tax liabilities
     Property, plant and equipment, primarily due to
        depreciation differences                                  (170,225)         (122,459)
     Excess cost of net assets acquired                           (234,591)         (216,368)
     Deferred debt costs                                            (2,582)           (2,764)
     Customer base                                                  (3,617)           (5,742)
     Marketable equity securities                                        -           (13,715)
     Intercompany profits                                           (3,283)           (3,283)
     Other                                                          (2,927)           (7,804)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Gross deferred tax liabilities                           (417,225)         (372,135)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liability                                    $   (345,772)         (298,451)
============================================================================================
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

       The following is a reconciliation from the statutory federal income tax
rate to the Company's effective income tax rate:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                                  2001         2000          1999
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         (Percentage of pre-tax income)

<S>                                                                        <C>          <C>           <C>
Statutory federal income tax rate                                          35.0%        35.0          35.0
State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefit                       1.3          2.8           2.5
Amortization of nondeductible excess cost of net assets acquired            2.0          2.9           2.7
Basis difference of assets sold                                               -           .3           3.9
Amortization of investment tax credits                                      (.1)         (.2)          (.4)
Amortization of regulatory liability                                        (.3)         (.4)          (.4)
Other, net                                                                   .1          (.3)           .8
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate                                                  38.0%        40.1          44.1
==========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Income tax expense included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for
the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 was as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                   2001         2000         1999
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>                <C>         <C>
Federal
     Current                                        $   137,138        98,271      184,872
     Deferred                                            61,455        39,651      (11,600)
State
     Current                                             16,242        14,620       21,770
     Deferred                                            (4,810)        2,169       (5,539)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $   210,025       154,711      189,503
==========================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Income tax expense was allocated as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                             2001         2000        1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                             <C>             <C>         <C>
Net tax expense in the consolidated statements of income        $  210,025      154,711     189,503
Stockholders' equity
     Compensation expense for tax purposes
        in excess of amounts recognized for
        financial reporting purposes                                (1,051)      (2,702)    (16,836)
     Tax effect of the change in unrealized holding
        gain on investments                                        (13,715)     (20,941)     30,771
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                $  195,259      131,068     203,438
===================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(12)   SALE OF ASSETS

       In the second quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of
approximately $185.1 million ($117.7 million after-tax; $.83 per diluted share)
due to the sale of 30 PCS licenses to Leap Wireless International, Inc.
("Leap"). In conjunction with the sale of the licenses to Leap, the Company also
recorded a pre-tax charge of $18.2 million ($11.6 million after-tax; $.08 per
share) due to the write down in the value of certain non-operating assets.

       In the third quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain on the
sale of its remaining common shares of Illuminet Holdings, Inc. aggregating
$54.6 million ($35.5 million after-tax; $.25 per diluted share). The Company
also recorded a pre-tax gain of $4.0 million ($2.6 million after-tax; $.02 per
diluted share) on the sale of certain other assets.

       In the first quarter of 2000 the Company recorded a pre-tax gain
aggregating $9.9 million ($5.2 million after tax) due to the sale of its
remaining Alaska cellular operations.

       In the third quarter of 2000 the Company recorded a pre-tax gain
aggregating $10.7 million ($6.4 million after tax) due to the sale of its
minority interest in a non-strategic cellular partnership.

       In the first quarter of 1999 the Company recorded a pre-tax gain
aggregating $10.4 million ($6.7 million after tax) due to the sale of its
remaining common shares of MCIWorldCom, Inc.

       In May 1999, the Company sold substantially all of its Alaska-based
operations that were acquired in the acquisition of Pacific Telecom, Inc. on
December 1, 1997. The Company received approximately $300 million in after-tax
cash as a result of the transaction. In accordance with purchase accounting, no
gain or loss was recorded upon the disposition of these properties.

       In June 1999, the Company sold the assets of its cellular operations in
Brownsville and McAllen, Texas for approximately $96 million cash. In connection
therewith, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $39.6 million,
and an after-tax loss of approximately $7.8 million.

       In the fourth quarter of 1999 the Company recorded a pre-tax gain
aggregating $11.6 million ($7.6 million after tax) due to the sale of its
Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. common stock.

(13)   EARNINGS PER SHARE

       The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of
the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended December 31,                                        2001           2000           1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   (Dollars, except per share
                                                               amounts, and shares in thousands)

<S>                                                       <C>               <C>            <C>
Income (Numerator):
Net income                                                $  343,031        231,474        239,769
Dividends applicable to preferred stock                         (399)          (399)          (403)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income applicable to common stock for
  computing basic earnings per share                         342,632        231,075        239,366
Dividends applicable to preferred stock                          399            399            403
Interest on convertible securities, net of taxes                   -            132            252
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income as adjusted for purposes of computing
  diluted earnings per share                              $  343,031        231,606        240,021
==================================================================================================

Shares (Denominator):
Weighted average number of shares outstanding
  during period                                              141,021        140,440        139,313
Employee Stock Ownership Plan shares not
  committed to be released                                      (278)          (371)          (465)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average number of shares outstanding during
  period for computing basic earnings per share              140,743        140,069        138,848
Incremental common shares attributable to
  dilutive securities:
     Conversion of convertible securities                        435            707            981
     Shares issuable under outstanding stock options           1,129          1,088          1,603
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Number of shares as adjusted for purposes of
  computing diluted earnings per share                       142,307        141,864        141,432
==================================================================================================

Basic earnings per share                                  $     2.43           1.65           1.72
==================================================================================================

Diluted earnings per share                                $     2.41           1.63           1.70
==================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       The weighted average number of options to purchase shares of common stock
that were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because
the exercise price of the option was greater than the average market price of
the common stock was 1,346,000 for 2001, 969,000 for 2000 and 20,000 for 1999.

(14)   ACCOUNTING FOR THE EFFECTS OF REGULATION

       The Company's regulated telephone operations are subject to the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" ("SFAS 71"). Actions of
regulators can provide reasonable assurance of the existence of an asset, reduce
or eliminate the value of an asset and impose a liability on a regulated
enterprise. Such regulatory assets and liabilities are required to be recorded
and, accordingly, reflected in the balance sheet of an entity subject to SFAS
71.

       The Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2001 included
regulatory assets of approximately $769.8 million and regulatory liabilities of
approximately $2.9 million. The $769.8 million of regulatory assets included
amounts related to accumulated depreciation ($766.3 million), income taxes
($235,000), deferred costs associated with regulatory proceedings ($356,000) and
deferred financing costs ($2.9 million). The $2.9 million of regulatory
liabilities was established in connection with the adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting For Income Taxes." Net
deferred income tax liabilities related to the regulatory assets and liabilities
quantified above were $300.2 million.

       Property, plant and equipment of the Company's regulated telephone
operations has been depreciated using the straight line method over lives
approved by regulators. Such depreciable lives have generally exceeded the
depreciable lives used by nonregulated entities. In addition, in accordance with
regulatory accounting, retirements of regulated telephone property have been
charged to accumulated depreciation, along with the costs of removal, less
salvage, with no gain or loss recognized. These accounting policies have
resulted in accumulated depreciation being significantly less than if the
Company's telephone operations had not been regulated.

       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 101, "Regulated
Enterprises - Accounting for the Discontinuance of Application of FASB Statement
No. 71" ("SFAS 101"), specifies the accounting required when an enterprise
ceases to meet the criteria for application of SFAS 71. SFAS 101 requires the
elimination of the effects of any actions of regulators that have been
recognized as assets and liabilities in accordance with SFAS 71 but would not
have been recognized as assets and liabilities by non-regulated enterprises,
along with an adjustment of certain accumulated depreciation accounts to reflect
the difference between recorded depreciation and the amount of depreciation that
would have been recorded had the Company's telephone operations not been subject
to rate regulation. SFAS 101 further provides that the carrying amounts of
property, plant and equipment are to be adjusted only to the extent the assets
are impaired and that impairment shall be judged in the same manner as for
non-regulated enterprises. Deferred tax liabilities and deferred investment tax
credits will be impacted based on the change in the temporary differences for
property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation.

     The  Company is  monitoring  the  ongoing  applicability  of SFAS 71 to its
regulated telephone operations due to the changing  regulatory,  competitive and
legislative  environments,  and  it is  possible  that  changes  in  regulation,
legislation or  competition or in the demand for regulated  services or products
could result in the  Company's  telephone  operations no longer being subject to
SFAS 71 in the near  future.  When the  regulated  operations  of the Company no
longer qualify for the application of SFAS 71, the net adjustments  required may
result in a material,  noncash charge against earnings which would be reported
as an extraordinary item.  For regulatory purposes, the accounting and reporting
of the Company's telephone subsidiaries will not be affected by the discontinued
application of SFAS 71.

     The  properties  to be acquired from Verizon in 2002 are not expected to be
accounted for under the provisions of SFAS 71.

(15)   STOCK OPTION PROGRAM

       CenturyTel has a 2000 incentive compensation program which allows the
Board of Directors, through the Compensation Committee, to grant incentives to
certain employees in any one or a combination of several forms, including
incentive and non-qualified stock options; stock appreciation rights; restricted
stock; and performance shares. As of December 31, 2001, CenturyTel had reserved
8.4 million shares of common stock which may be issued under CenturyTel's
current incentive compensation program.

       Under the Company's programs, options have been granted to employees at a
price either equal to or exceeding the then-current market price. All of the
options expire ten years after the date of grant and the vesting period ranges
from immediate to three years.

       During 2001 the Company granted 1,971,750 options (the "2001 Options") at
market price. The weighted average fair value of each of the 2001 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $11.16 using an option-pricing model
with the following assumptions: dividend yield - .6%; expected volatility - 30%;
risk-free interest rate - 4.8%; and expected option life - seven years.

       During 2000 the Company granted 1,565,750 options (the "2000 Options") at
market price. The weighted average fair value of each of the 2000 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $12.46 using an option-pricing model
with the following assumptions: dividend yield - .5%; expected volatility - 25%;
risk-free interest rate - 5.3%; and expected option life - seven years.

       During 1999 the Company granted 83,743 options (the "1999 Options") at
market price. The weighted average fair value of each of the 1999 Options was
estimated as of the date of grant to be $15.90 using an option-pricing model
with the following assumptions: dividend yield - .4%; expected volatility - 20%;
risk-free interest rate - 6.6%; and expected option life - seven years.

       Stock option transactions during 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows:

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Number          Average
                                                            of options         price
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                       <C>              <C>
Outstanding December 31, 1998                              4,780,613        $    13.35
      Exercised                                           (1,369,459)            10.90
      Granted                                                 83,743             40.88
      Forfeited                                               (9,055)            37.07
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding December 31, 1999                              3,485,842             14.92
      Exercised                                             (369,308)            12.46
      Granted                                              1,565,750             33.00
      Forfeited                                               (1,125)            13.33
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding December 31, 2000                              4,681,159             21.16
      Exercised                                             (149,806)            15.91
      Granted                                              1,971,750             28.14
      Forfeited                                             (135,583)            18.42
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding December 31, 2001                              6,367,520             23.51
====================================================================

Exercisable December 31, 2000                              3,113,496             15.21
====================================================================

Exercisable December 31, 2001                              3,342,216             17.81
====================================================================
</TABLE>

      The following tables summarize certain information about CenturyTel's
stock options at December 31, 2001.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Options outstanding
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Weighted average
     Range of                                           remaining contractual            Weighted average
  exercise prices             Number of options           life outstanding                exercise price
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>  <C>                           <C>                            <C>                     <C>   <C>
$    11.67-12.30                     760,966                      1.7                     $     12.29
     13.33-17.64                   1,934,420                      4.2                           14.95
     24.50-26.31                     381,650                      7.8                           25.29
     26.98-31.54                   1,932,136                      8.6                           28.15
     31.75-38.50                   1,313,517                      9.3                           34.62
     39.00-46.19                      44,831                      7.4                           42.51
                                   ---------
     11.67-46.19                   6,367,520                      7.8                           23.51
                                   =========

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Options exercisable
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Range of                                   Number of                                Weighted average
  exercise prices                           options exercisable                           exercise price
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>  <C>                                          <C>                                    <C>    <C>
$    11.67-12.30                                    760,966                               $     12.29
     13.33-17.64                                  1,934,420                                     14.95
     24.50-26.31                                    120,824                                     25.21
     26.98-31.54                                     62,953                                     28.84
     31.75-38.50                                    418,222                                     34.62
     39.00-46.19                                     44,831                                     42.51
                                                  ---------
     11.67-46.19                                  3,342,216                                     17.81
                                                  =========
</TABLE>

       The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its program.
Accordingly, the Company has not recognized compensation cost in connection with
issuing stock options. If compensation cost for CenturyTel's options had been
determined consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", the Company's net income and earnings
per share on a pro forma basis for 2001, 2000 and 1999 would have been as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended December 31,                        2001         2000         1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   (Dollars in thousands,
                                                  except per share amounts)
<S>                                      <C> <C>           <C>          <C>
Net income
     As reported                         $   343,031       231,474      239,769
     Pro forma                           $   334,060       225,164      239,033
Basic earnings per share
     As reported                         $      2.43          1.65         1.72
     Pro forma                           $      2.37          1.60         1.72
Diluted earnings per share
     As reported                         $      2.41          1.63         1.70
Pro forma                                $      2.35          1.59         1.69
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(16)   SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW DISCLOSURES

       The Company paid interest, net of amounts capitalized of $3.5 million,
$4.5 million and $2.0 million during 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, of
$224.7 million, $164.0 million and $148.3 million during 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Income taxes paid were $128.3 million in 2001, $142.3 million in
2000 and $270.9 million in 1999.

       CenturyTel has consummated the acquisitions of various telephone and
wireless operations, along with certain other assets, during the three years
ended December 31, 2001. In connection with these acquisitions, the following
assets were acquired and liabilities assumed:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                               2001         2000         1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                              <C>            <C>             <C>
Property, plant and equipment, net                $       -       607,415          830
Excess cost of net assets acquired                   33,183       917,468       20,194
Other investments                                         -         7,145            -
Long-term debt                                            -          (378)           -
Deferred credits and other liabilities               13,948       (44,465)           -
Other assets and liabilities, excluding
  cash and cash equivalents                              -        53,671          (52)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decrease in cash due to acquisitions              $  47,131     1,540,856       20,972
======================================================================================
</TABLE>

       CenturyTel has disposed of various telephone and wireless operations,
along with certain other assets, during the three years ended December 31, 2001.
In connection with these dispositions, the following assets were sold,
liabilities eliminated, assets received and gain recognized:

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year ended December 31,                                           2001         2000         1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      (Dollars in thousands)

<S>                                                           <C>              <C>        <C>
Property, plant and equipment, net                            $ (20,653)       (4,062)    (165,286)
Excess cost of net assets acquired, net                               -        (4,071)    (296,605)
Marketable equity securities                                     (3,614)            -      (18,363)
Other assets and liabilities, excluding cash and
  cash equivalents                                               51,593          (769)      58,595
Gain on sale of assets                                         (199,971)      (20,593)     (62,808)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Increase in cash due to dispositions                          $(172,645)      (29,495)    (484,467)
==================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       In connection with the sale of PCS licenses to Leap in the second quarter
of 2001, the Company received approximately $86.5 million in the form of a
promissory note. Such note was subsequently collected in installments through
the fourth quarter of 2001.

(17)   FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair
values of certain of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 2001
and 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Carrying              Fair
                                                                           Amount               value
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             (Dollars in thousands)
December 31, 2001
-----------------

<S>                                                                    <C>                 <C>        <C>
Financial assets                                                       $      30,248          30,248  (3)

Financial liabilities
     Long-term debt (including current maturities)                     $   3,043,334       3,040,242  (2)
Other                                                                  $      39,714          39,714  (3)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

December 31, 2000
-----------------

Financial assets
     Investments
         Marketable equity securities                                  $      42,801          42,801  (1)
         Other                                                         $      36,514          36,514  (3)

Financial liabilities
     Long-term debt (including current maturities)                     $   3,200,254       3,107,899  (2)
     Other                                                             $      40,879          40,879  (3)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)    Fair value was based on quoted market prices.
(2)    Fair value was estimated by discounting the scheduled payment streams to
       present value based upon rates currently offered to the Company for
       similar debt.
 (3)   Fair value was estimated by the Company to approximate carrying value.

       The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
short-term debt, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximates the fair
value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

(18)   BUSINESS SEGMENTS

       The Company has two reportable segments: telephone and wireless. The
Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different
products and services. The operating income of these segments is reviewed by the
chief operating decision maker to assess performance and make business
decisions. Other operations include, but are not limited to, the Company's
non-regulated long distance operations, Internet operations, competitive local
exchange carrier operations, fiber network business and security monitoring
operations. In August 2001, the Company announced that it is exploring the
potential separation of its wireless business from its other operations.

       The Company's telephone operations are conducted in rural, suburban and
small urban communities in 21 states. Approximately 87% of the Company's
telephone access lines are in Wisconsin, Arkansas, Washington, Missouri,
Michigan, Louisiana, Colorado, Ohio and Oregon. The Company's wireless customers
are located in Michigan, Louisiana, Wisconsin, Mississippi, Texas, and Arkansas.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Depreciation
                                                              Operating            and           Operating
                                                              revenues        amortization        income
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

Year ended December 31, 2001

<S>                                                       <C>                    <C>               <C>
Telephone                                                 $   1,505,733          398,284           423,420
Wireless                                                        437,965           66,346           112,401
Other operations                                                173,771            8,754            22,098
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                     $   2,117,469          473,384           557,919
==========================================================================================================


Year ended December 31, 2000

Telephone                                                 $   1,253,969          317,906           376,290
Wireless                                                        443,569           65,239           117,865
Other operations                                                148,388            4,911            31,258
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                     $   1,845,926          388,056           525,413
==========================================================================================================


Year ended December 31, 1999

Telephone                                                 $   1,126,112          273,666           351,559
Wireless                                                        422,269           68,593           133,930
Other operations                                                128,288            6,557            22,580
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                     $   1,676,669          348,816           508,069
==========================================================================================================


Year ended December 31,                                          2001              2000            1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

Operating income                                          $     557,919          525,413           508,069
Nonrecurring gains and losses, net                              199,971           20,593            62,808
Interest expense                                               (225,523)        (183,302)         (150,557)
Income from unconsolidated cellular entities                     27,460           26,986            27,675
Minority interest                                               (11,812)         (10,201)          (27,913)
Other income and expense                                          5,041            6,696             9,190
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income tax expense                          $     553,056          386,185           429,272
==========================================================================================================


Year ended December 31,                                          2001              2000            1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                          (Dollars in thousands)
Capital expenditures
     Telephone                                            $     351,010          275,523           233,512
     Wireless                                                    71,212           58,468            58,760
     Other operations                                            84,505          115,546            97,708
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                     $     506,727          449,537           389,980
==========================================================================================================


December 31,                                                     2001              2000            1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                          (Dollars in thousands)
Total assets
     Telephone                                            $   4,629,224        4,741,284         3,207,690
     Wireless                                                   877,222          930,406         1,023,936
     Other operations                                           812,238          721,600           473,781
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets                                              $   6,318,684        6,393,290         4,705,407
==========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       Other accounts receivable are primarily amounts due from various long
distance carriers, principally AT&T, and several large local exchange operating
companies.

(19)   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

       Construction expenditures and investments in vehicles, buildings and
equipment during 2002 are estimated to be $315 million for telephone operations,
$65 million for wireless operations and $45 million for other operations.

       From time to time, the Company is involved in various claims and legal
actions relating to the conduct of its business. In the opinion of management,
the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

(20)   PENDING ACQUISITIONS

       In October 2001, the Company entered into definitive asset purchase
agreements to purchase from affiliates of Verizon telephone access lines (which
numbered approximately 676,000 at December 31, 2001) and related local exchange
assets in Missouri and Alabama for approximately $2.159 billion in cash, subject
to adjustments which are not expected to be material in the aggregate. Under
each definitive agreement, the Company has agreed to pay Verizon 10% of the
transaction consideration if the purchase is not consummated under specified
conditions, including the Company's incapacity to finance the transaction. These
transactions are anticipated to close in the second half of 2002, subject to
regulatory approvals and certain other closing conditions. The Company's
financing plans are not yet complete and will be dependent upon the Company's
review of its alternatives and market conditions.

                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
               Consolidated Quarterly Income Statement Information
                                   (Unaudited)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            First       Second        Third       Fourth
                                                           quarter      quarter      quarter      quarter
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
 2001                                                                       (unaudited)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                    <C>             <C>          <C>          <C>
Operating revenues                                      $ 516,008      518,936      539,377      543,148
Operating income                                        $ 134,208      135,205      143,811      144,695
Net income                                              $  46,722      154,241       92,305       49,763
Basic earnings per share                                $     .33         1.10          .66          .35
Diluted earnings per share                              $     .33         1.09          .65          .35

2000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operating revenues                                      $ 412,956      423,156      482,634      527,180
Operating income                                        $ 111,422      124,892      147,059      142,040
Net income                                              $  49,284       57,845       67,224       57,121
Basic earnings per share                                $     .35          .41          .48          .41
Diluted earnings per share                              $     .35          .41          .47          .40
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

       Diluted earnings per share for the second and third quarters of 2001
included $.75 and $.27 per share, respectively, of net gains on sales of assets.
See Note 12 for additional information.

       Diluted earnings per share for the first and third quarters of 2000
included $.04 and $.05 per share, respectively, of gain on sale of assets. See
Note 12 for additional information. On July 31, 2000 and September 29, 2000,
affiliates of the Company acquired over 490,000 telephone access lines and
related assets from Verizon. See Note 2 for additional information.



<PAGE>


Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
              and Financial Disclosure.

      None.

                                    PART III

Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     The name, age and office(s) held by each of the Registrant's executive
officers are shown below. Each of the executive officers listed below serves at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors, except Mr. Williams who has entered into
an employment agreement with the Registrant. The agreement's initial term has
lapsed, but the agreement remains in effect from year to year, subject to the
right of Mr. Williams or the Company to terminate such agreement.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Name                            Age            Office(s) held with CenturyTel
-------------------         -------------      ------------------------------
<S>                             <C>            <C>
Clarke M. Williams              80             Chairman of the Board
                                                of Directors

Glen F. Post, III               49             Vice Chairman of the Board of
                                                 Directors, President and Chief
                                                 Executive Officer

Karen A. Puckett                41             Executive Vice President and
                                                 Chief Operating Officer

R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.           50             Executive Vice President and
                                                 Chief Financial Officer

Harvey P. Perry                 57             Executive Vice President,
                                                 Chief Administrative Officer,
                                                 General Counsel and Secretary

David D. Cole                   44             Senior Vice President -
                                                 Operations Support

Michael Maslowski               54             Senior Vice President and
                                                 Chief Information Officer
</TABLE>

     Each of the Registrant's executive officers, except for Ms. Puckett and Mr.
Maslowski, has served as an officer of the Registrant and one or more of its
subsidiaries in varying capacities for more than the past five years. Mr. Cole
has served as Senior Vice President - Operations Support since November 1998 and
as President - Wireless Group from October 1996 to October 1998. Mr. Maslowski
has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer since March
1999 and as Senior Information Systems Executive for Lucent Technologies and for
a joint venture between Lucent Technologies and Phillips Consumer Communications
from 1996 to early 1999. Ms. Puckett has served as Executive Vice President and
Chief Operating Officer since July 2000, as Sales and Marketing Senior Officer
of BroadStream Communications from July 1999 through July 2000 and as Texas
Region President for GTE Wireless from 1996 to mid-1999.

     Commco Technology LLC (formerly BroadStream Communications) filed for
bankruptcy on December 18, 2000 in the United States Bankruptcy Court, District
of Connecticut (Bridgeport). Ms. Puckett was an officer and employee of
BroadStream Communications from July 1999 through July 2000.

     The balance of the information required by Item 10 is incorporated by
reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its 2002
annual meeting of stockholders (the "Proxy Statement"), which Proxy Statement
will be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the
last fiscal year.

Item 11.      Executive Compensation.

     The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.

Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the
Proxy Statement.


                                     PART IV

Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

        a.    Financial Statements

              (i)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

                     Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial
                       Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

                     Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                       December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                     Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
                       years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                     Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2001 and 2000

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
                       ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
                       years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                     Consolidated Quarterly Income Statement Information
                       (unaudited)

              (ii) Schedules:*

                     I     Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                     II    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                     *     Those schedules not listed above are
                           omitted as not applicable or not required.

        b.    Reports on Form 8-K.

                   The following items were reported in a Form 8-K filed October
              25, 2001:
                   Item 5. Other events - (i) News release announcing the
                   pending acquisition of 675,000 access lines from Verizon and
                   (ii) news release announcing third quarter earnings
                   expectations.



<PAGE>


                   The following item was reported in a Form 8-K filed November
              2, 2001:
                   Item 5. Other events - News release announcing third quarter
                   results of operations and fourth quarter 2001 earnings
                   expectations.

                   The following item was reported in a Form 8-K filed December
              10, 2001:
                   Item 5. Other events - To correct inaccurate press reports
                   about CenturyTel's reference to its guidance at the Lehman
                   Brothers Telecom Conference.

        c.    Exhibits:

              3(i)             Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
                               Registrant, dated as of May 6, 1999,
                               (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to
                               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                               the quarter ended June 30, 1999).

              3(ii)            Registrant's Bylaws, as amended through November
                               18, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                               3(ii) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                               for the year ended December 31, 1999).

              4.1              Note Purchase Agreement, dated September 1, 1989,
                               between Registrant, Teachers Insurance and
                               Annuity Association of America and the Lincoln
                               National Life Insurance Company (incorporated by
                               reference to Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's
                               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                               ended September 30, 1989).

              4.2              Rights Agreement, dated as of August 27, 1996,
                               between Registrant and Society National Bank, as
                               Rights Agent, including the form of Rights
                               Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                               1 of Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
                               filed August 30, 1996) and Amendment No.1
                               thereto, dated May 25, 1999 (incorporated by
                               reference to Exhibit 4.2(ii) to Registrant's
                               Report on Form 8-K dated May 25, 1999) and
                               Amendment No. 2 thereto, dated and effective as
                               of June 30, 2000, by and between the Registrant
                               and Computershare Investor Services, LLC, as
                               rights agent (incorporated by reference to
                               Exhibit 4.1 of Registrant's Quarterly report on
                               10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000).

              4.3              Form of common stock certificate of the
                               Registrant (incorporated by reference to
                               Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant's Annual Report
                               on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                               2000).

              4.4              Instruments relating to the Company's public
                               senior debt

                               (a)   Indenture dated as of March 31, 1994
                                     between the Company and Regions Bank
                                     (formerly First American Bank & Trust of
                                     Louisiana), as Trustee (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's
                                     Registration Statement on Form S-3,
                                     Registration No. 33-52915).

                               (b)   Resolutions designating the terms and
                                     conditions of the Company's 7-3/4% Senior
                                     Notes, Series A, due 2004 and
                                     8-1/4% Senior Notes, Series B, due 2024
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                                     to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994).

                               (c)   Resolutions designating the terms and
                                     conditions of the Company's 6.55% Senior
                                     Notes, Series C, due 2005 and 7.2% Senior
                                     Notes, Series D, due 2025 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 4.27 to Registrant's
                                     Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                                     ended December 31, 1995).

                               (d)   Resolutions designating the terms and
                                     conditions of the Company's 6.15% Senior
                                     Notes, Series E, due 2005; 6.30% Senior
                                     Notes, Series F, due 2008; and 6.875%
                                     Debentures, Series G, due 2028,
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9
                                     to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                                     for the year ended December 31, 1997).

                               (e)   Form of Registrant's 8.375% Senior Notes,
                                     Series H, Due 2010, issued October 19, 2000
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2
                                     of Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the Quarter ended September 30,
                                     2000).

                               (f)   Form of the Registrant's 7.750%
                                     Remarketable Senior Notes, Series I, due
                                     2012, issued October 19, 2000 (the
                                     "Remarketable Notes") (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 4.3 of Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended September 30, 2000).

                               (g)   Remarketing Agreement, dated as of October
                                     19, 2000, between the Registrant and Banc
                                     of America Securities LLC, as remarketing
                                     agent for the Remarketable Notes
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
                                     of Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                                     2000).

              4.5              Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility
                               Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1997, among
                               Registrant, the lenders named therein, and
                               NationsBank of Texas, N.A. (incorporated by
                               reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's
                               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                               ended September 30, 1997).

              4.6              Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated July
                               31, 2001, among Registrant, Bank of America,
                               N.A., Citibank, N.A., Banc of America Securities
                               LLC and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc., included
                               elsewhere herein.

              4.7              First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
                               November 2, 1998, to Indenture between CenturyTel
                               of the Northwest, Inc. and The First National
                               Bank of Chicago (incorporated by reference to
                               Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                               1998).

              10.1             Qualified Employee Benefit Plans (excluding
                               several narrow-based qualified plans that cover
                               union employees or other limited groups of
                               Company employees)

                               (a)   Registrant's Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                                     and Trust, as amended and restated
                                     September 17, 2001 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended September 30, 2001).

                               (b)   Registrant's Dollars & Sense Plan and
                                     Trust, as amended and restated, effective
                                     January 1, 1998 and amendment thereto dated
                                     December 29, 1998 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.1 (c) to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1998).

                               (c)   Registrant's Amended and Restated
                                     Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1,
                                     1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1 (z) to Registrant's Annual Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                     1998) and amendment thereto dated April 17,
                                     2000, included elsewhere herein.

                               (d)   Merger Agreement, dated September 18, 2001,
                                     between Registrant and Regions Bank of
                                     Louisiana, pursuant to which Registrant's
                                     Stock Bonus Plan and PAYSOP were merged
                                     into Registrant's Employee Stock Ownership
                                     Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10(b) of Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                                     30, 2001).

              10.2             Stock-based Incentive Plans

                               (a)   Registrant's 1983 Restricted Stock Plan,
                                     dated February 21, 1984, as amended and
                                     restated as of November 16, 1995
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(e) to Registrant's Annual Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                     1995) and amendment thereto dated November
                                     21, 1996, (incorporated by reference to
                                     Exhibit 10.1(e) to Registrant's Annual
                                     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                                     December 31, 1996), and amendment thereto
                                     dated February 25, 1997 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended March 31, 1997),
                                     and amendment thereto dated April 25,
                                     2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1 of Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                                     2001), and amendment thereto dated April
                                     17, 2000, included elsewhere herein.

                               (b)   Registrant's 1988 Incentive Compensation
                                     Program as amended and restated August 22,
                                     1989 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     19.8 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                                     30, 1989) and amendment thereto dated
                                     November 21, 1996 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.1(g) to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1996).

                               (c)   Registrant's 1990 Incentive Compensation
                                     Program, dated March 15, 1990 (incorporated
                                     by reference to Exhibit 19.1 to
                                     Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the quarter ended June 30, 1990) and
                                     amendment thereto dated November 21, 1996
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(i) to Registrant's Annual Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                     1996).

                               (d)   Registrant's 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan approved by Registrant's shareholders
                                     on May 11, 1995 (incorporated by reference
                                     to Exhibit 4.4 to Registration No.
                                     33-60061) and amendment thereto dated
                                     November 21, 1996 (incorporated by
                                     Reference to Exhibit 10.1 (l) to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1996), and
                                     amendment thereto dated February 25, 1997
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                                     to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997).

                                     (i) Form of Stock Option Agreement,
                                     pursuant to 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan and dated as of May 22, 1995, entered
                                     into by Registrant and its officers
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
                                     to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

                                     (ii) Form of Stock Option Agreement,
                                     pursuant to 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan and dated as of June 23, 1995, entered
                                     into by Registrant and certain key
                                     employees (incorporated by reference to
                                     Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant's Quarterly
                                     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                                     June 30, 1995).

                                     (iii) Form of Stock Option Agreement,
                                     pursuant to 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan and dated as of February 24, 1997,
                                     entered into by Registrant and its officers
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
                                     to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

                                     (iv) Form of Stock Option Agreement,
                                     pursuant to 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan and dated as of February 21, 2000,
                                     entered into by Registrant and its officers
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                                     (t) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                                     10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

                                     (v) Form of Amended and Restated Restricted
                                     Stock and Performance Share Agreement dated
                                     as of March 16, 1998, relating to equity
                                     incentive awards granted in 1997 pursuant
                                     to Registrant's 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                                     1998).

                                     (vi) Form of Restricted Stock and
                                     Performance Share Agreement, dated as of
                                     March 16, 1998, relating to equity
                                     incentive awards granted in 1998 pursuant
                                     to Registrant's 1995 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.3 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                                     1998).

                                     (vii) Form of Restricted Stock and
                                     Performance Share Agreement, dated as of
                                     February 22, 1999, relating to equity
                                     incentive awards granted in 1999 pursuant
                                     to the Registrant's 1995 Incentive
                                     Compensation Plan (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.1(x) to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1999).

                               (e)   Amended and Restated Registrant's 2000
                                     Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended
                                     through May 23, 2000 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended June 30, 2000).

                                     (i) Form of Stock Option Agreement,
                                     pursuant to the 2000 Incentive Compensation
                                     Plan and dated as of May 21, 2001, entered
                                     into by Registrant and its officers,
                                     included elsewhere herein.


              10.3             Other Non-Qualified Employee Benefit Plans

                               (a)   Registrant's Key Employee Incentive
                                     Compensation Plan, dated January 1, 1984,
                                     as amended and restated as of November 16,
                                     1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(f) to Registrant's Annual Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                     1995) and amendment thereto dated November
                                     21, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
                                     Exhibit 10.1 (f) to Registrant's Annual
                                     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                                     December 31, 1996), amendment thereto
                                     dated February 25, 1997 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended March 31, 1997), amendment
                                     thereto dated April 25, 2001 (incorporated
                                     by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
                                     Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the quarter ended March 31, 2001) and
                                     amendment thereto dated April 17, 2000,
                                     included elsewhere herein.

                               (b)   Registrant's Restated Supplemental
                                     Executive Retirement Plan, dated April 3,
                                     2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(d) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                                     2000).

                               (c)   Registrant's Restated Supplemental Defined
                                     Contribution Plan, restated as of July 17,
                                     2001, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1 of Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                                     2001).

                               (d)   Registrant's Amended and Restated
                                     Supplemental Dollars & Sense Plan,
                                     effective as of January 1, 1999
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                                     (q) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                                     10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

                               (e)   Registrant's Supplemental Defined Benefit
                                     Plan, effective as of January 1, 1999
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                                     (y) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                                     10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998),
                                     and amendment thereto dated February 28,
                                     2002, included elsewhere herein.

                               (f)   Registrant's Amended and Restated Salary
                                     Continuation (Disability) Plan for
                                     Officers, dated November 26, 1991
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16
                                     of Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                                     for the year ended December 31, 1991).

                               (g)   Registrant's Restated Outside Directors'
                                     Retirement Plan, dated as of November 16,
                                     1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(t) to Registrant's Annual Report on
                                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                     1995) and amendment thereto dated April 17,
                                     2000, included elsewhere herein.

                               (h)   Registrant's Restated Deferred Compensation
                                     Plan for Outside Directors, dated as of
                                     November 16, 1995 (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.1(u) to
                                     Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                                     the year ended December 31, 1995) and
                                     amendment thereto dated April 17, 2000,
                                     included elsewhere herein.

                               (i)   Registrant's Chairman/Chief Executive
                                     Officer Short-Term Incentive Program
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                                     to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                                     10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

                               (j)   Registrant's 2001 Employee Stock Purchase
                                     Plan (incorporated by reference to
                                     Registrant's 2001 Proxy Statement).

              10.4             Employment, Severance and Related Agreements

                               (a)   Employment Agreement, originally dated May
                                     24, 1993, as amended and restated through
                                     February 22, 2000, by and between Clarke M.
                                     Williams and Registrant (incorporated by
                                     reference to Exhibit 10.1(a) to
                                     Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the quarter ended March 31, 2000).

                               (b)   Agreement, dated December 31, 1994, by and
                                     between Jim D. Reppond and Registrant
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24
                                     to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                                     for the year ended December 31, 1994).

                               (c)   Consulting Agreement, dated as of July 2,
                                     1996, by and between Registrant and Jim D.
                                     Reppond (incorporated by reference to
                                     Exhibit 10 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
                                     on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                                     September 30, 1996).

                               (d)   Change of Control Agreement, dated February
                                     22, 2000 by and between Glen F. Post, III
                                     and Registrant (incorporated by reference
                                     to Exhibit 10.1(b) to Registrant's
                                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                     quarter ended March 31, 2000).

                               (e)   Form of Change of Control Agreement, dated
                                     February 22, 2000, by and between
                                     Registrant and David D. Cole, R. Stewart
                                     Ewing, Michael E. Maslowski and Harvey P.
                                     Perry (incorporated by reference exhibit
                                     10.1(c) to the Registrant's Quarterly
                                     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                                     March 31, 2000).

                               (f)   Form of Change of Control Agreement dated
                                     July 24, 2000, by and between the
                                     Registrant and Karen A. Puckett
                                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                     10.1(c) of Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                                     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                                     2000).


              10.5             Other Agreements

                               (a)   Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of
                                     October 22, 2001, between GTE Midwest
                                     Incorporated (d/b/a Verizon Midwest) and
                                     CenturyTel of Missouri, LLC (incorporated
                                     by reference to Exhibit 2(a) of
                                     Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                     for the quarter ended September 30, 2001).

                               (b)   Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of
                                     October 22, 2001, between Verizon South,
                                     Inc., Contel of the South, Inc. (d/b/a
                                     Verizon Mid-States) and CenturyTel of
                                     Alabama, LLC (incorporated by reference to
                                     Exhibit 2(b) of Registrant's Quarterly
                                     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                                     September 30, 2001).

              21               Subsidiaries of the Registrant, included
                               elsewhere herein.

              23               Independent Auditors' Consent, included
                               elsewhere herein.

<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES


       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                     CenturyTel, Inc.,


Date:   March 14, 2002                               By: /s/ Clarke M. Williams
     --------------------                                ----------------------
                                                         Clarke M. Williams
                                                         Chairman of the Board

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



/s/ Clarke M. Williams
----------------------------    Chairman of the Board
Clarke M. Williams                 of Directors                  March 14, 2002


                                Vice Chairman of the
/s/ Glen F. Post, III              Board of Directors,
----------------------------       President, and Chief
Glen F. Post, III                  Executive Officer             March 14, 2002



/s/ R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.
----------------------------    Executive Vice President and
R. Stewart Ewing, Jr.              Chief Financial Officer       March 14, 2002




/s/ Harvey P. Perry             Executive Vice President,
----------------------------       Chief Administrative Officer
Harvey P. Perry                    and Director                  March 14, 2002



/s/ Neil A. Sweasy
----------------------------    Vice President and Controller
Neil A. Sweasy                  (Principal Accounting Officer)   March 14, 2002



/s/ William R. Boles, Jr.
----------------------------
William R. Boles, Jr.           Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ Virginia Boulet
----------------------------
Virginia Boulet                 Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ Ernest Butler, Jr.
---------------------------
Ernest Butler, Jr.              Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ Calvin Czeschin
---------------------------
Calvin Czeschin                 Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ James B. Gardner
---------------------------
James B. Gardner                Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ W. Bruce Hanks
---------------------------
W. Bruce Hanks                  Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ R. L. Hargrove, Jr.
---------------------------
R. L. Hargrove, Jr.             Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ Johnny Hebert
---------------------------
Johnny Hebert                   Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ F. Earl Hogan
---------------------------
F. Earl Hogan                   Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ C. G. Melville, Jr.
---------------------------
C. G. Melville, Jr.             Director                         March 14, 2002



/s/ Jim D. Reppond
---------------------------
Jim D. Reppond                  Director                         March 14, 2002







<PAGE>



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                    Year ended December 31,
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             2001            2000            1999
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     (Dollars in thousands)


<S>                                                     <C>                 <C>              <C>
REVENUES                                                 $   14,962         13,007           15,542
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXPENSES
         Operating expenses                                  12,712         11,604           12,057
         Depreciation and amortization                       10,530          7,470            7,153
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Total expenses                                 23,242         19,074           19,210
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING LOSS                                               (8,280)        (6,067)          (3,668)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
         Nonrecurring gains and losses, net                 (25,480)             -            1,931
         Interest expense                                  (253,018)      (214,140)        (117,760)
         Interest income                                    120,136         84,307           48,078
         Other expense                                       (6,149)        (7,741)            (697)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Total other income (expense)                 (164,511)      (137,574)         (68,448)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND
    EQUITY IN SUBSIDIARIES' EARNINGS                       (172,791)      (143,641)         (72,116)

Income tax benefit                                           66,324         52,259           33,179
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LOSS BEFORE EQUITY IN
    SUBSIDIARIES' EARNINGS                                 (106,467)       (91,382)         (38,937)

Equity in subsidiaries' earnings                            449,498        322,856          278,706
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NET INCOME                                               $  343,031        231,474          239,769
===================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.


<PAGE>


           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (continued)
                                 CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                     December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                 2001            2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                (Dollars in thousands)
                                     ASSETS

<S>                                                                        <C>                   <C>
CURRENT ASSETS
         Cash and cash equivalents                                         $    24,269           4,600
         Receivables from subsidiaries                                       1,249,664         641,794
         Other receivables                                                         655          35,890
         Prepayments and other                                                     397             527
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Total current assets                                           1,274,985         682,811
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
         Property and equipment                                                    675           1,005
         Accumulated depreciation                                                 (459)           (742)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Net property, plant and equipment                                    216             263
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
         Investments in subsidiaries (at equity)                             5,041,830       4,825,386
         Receivables from subsidiaries                                         230,780         224,753
         Other investments                                                      43,216          50,322
         Deferred charges                                                       59,683          85,253
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Total investments and other assets                             5,375,509       5,185,714
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL ASSETS                                                               $ 6,650,710       5,868,788
======================================================================================================

                             LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
         Current maturities of long-term debt                              $   906,305          57,527
         Short-term debt                                                        53,000         276,000
         Payables to subsidiaries                                            1,210,181         886,249
         Accrued interest                                                       41,535          41,786
         Other accrued liabilities                                              92,798          66,073
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Total current liabilities                                      2,303,819       1,327,635
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LONG-TERM DEBT                                                               1,579,506       2,485,811
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PAYABLES TO SUBSIDIARIES                                                       404,037               -
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER LIABILITIES                                          25,968          23,263
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
         Common stock, $1.00 par value, authorized
           350,000,000 shares, issued and outstanding
           141,232,806 and 140,667,251 shares                                  141,233         140,667
         Paid-in capital                                                       524,668         509,840
         Unrealized holding gain on investments,
           net of taxes                                                              -          25,471
         Retained earnings                                                   1,666,004       1,351,626
         Unearned ESOP shares                                                   (2,500)         (3,500)
         Preferred stock - non-redeemable                                        7,975           7,975
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Total stockholders' equity                                     2,337,380       2,032,079
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                               $ 6,650,710       5,868,788
======================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.


<PAGE>


           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                   (Continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   Year ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                           2001             2000            1999
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>                  <C>              <C>
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
    Net income                                                       $    343,031         231,474          239,769
    Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
       provided by (used in) operating activities:
         Depreciation and amortization                                     10,530           7,470            7,153
         Deferred income taxes                                            (18,905)         (6,999)         (10,357)
         Equity in subsidiaries' earnings                                (449,498)       (322,856)        (278,706)
         Nonrecurring gains and losses, net                                25,480               -           (1,931)
         Changes in current assets and current liabilities:
              Other receivables                                            35,235         (35,377)          23,393
              Other accrued liabilities                                    26,725          56,037          (83,749)
              Other current assets and liabilities, net                      (122)         14,528             (435)
         Other, net                                                        26,355          14,770            6,060
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Net cash used in operating activities                        (1,169)        (40,953)         (98,803)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
    Acquisitions                                                                -         (22,952)               -
    Capital contributions to subsidiaries                                       -      (1,302,568)               -
    Dividends received from subsidiaries                                  266,783         174,637          162,149
    Receivables from subsidiaries                                        (610,597)       (180,878)         (22,607)
    Payables to subsidiaries                                              658,048          44,256          380,505
    Proceeds from sales of assets                                               -               -            3,444
    Other, net                                                              8,289          (6,680)           2,569
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities         322,523      (1,294,185)         526,060
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
    Proceeds from issuance of debt                                              -       2,654,375                -
    Payments of debt                                                     (279,527)     (1,299,599)        (415,166)
    Payment of hedge contracts                                                  -          (4,345)               -
    Proceeds from issuance of common stock                                  7,351           7,996           19,182
    Payment of debt issuance costs                                              -          (4,274)               -
    Cash dividends paid                                                   (28,653)        (26,815)         (25,413)
    Other, net                                                               (856)              -                -
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities        (301,685)      1,327,338         (421,397)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                       19,669          (7,800)           5,860

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                              4,600          12,400            6,540
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR                             $     24,269           4,600           12,400
==================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant.


<PAGE>



           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                  (continued)
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.
                                (Parent Company)
             NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT



(A)    LONG-TERM DEBT

       The approximate annual debt maturities for the five years subsequent to
December 31, 2001 are as follows:

                           2002  -  $ 906.3 million
                           2003  -  $   4.8 million
                           2004  -  $  51.5 million
                           2005  -  $ 151.0 million
                           2006  -  $   1.0 million

(B)    GUARANTEES

       As of December 31, 2001, CenturyTel has guaranteed debt of subsidiaries
totaling $266.8 million.

(C)    DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

       Dividends paid to CenturyTel by consolidated subsidiaries were $266.8
million, $174.6 million and $162.1 million during 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

(D)    INCOME TAXES AND INTEREST PAID

       Income taxes paid by CenturyTel (including amounts reimbursed from
subsidiaries) were $120.4 million, $131.8 million and $220.1 million during
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

       Interest paid by CenturyTel was $253.3 million, $199.3 million and $118.5
million during 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

(E)    AFFILIATED TRANSACTIONS

       CenturyTel provides and bills management services to subsidiaries and in
certain instances makes interest bearing advances to finance construction of
plant and purchases of equipment. CenturyTel recorded intercompany interest
income of $119.7 million, $83.0 million and $47.8 million in 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

       CenturyTel recorded intercompany interest expense of $66.6 million, $74.5
million and $13.4 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

<PAGE>


                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                CENTURYTEL, INC.

              For the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Additions
                                             Balance at    charged to       Deductions                    Balance
                                              beginning     costs and          from          Other        at end
Description                                   of period     expenses       allowance (1)    changes      of period
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>             <C>             <C>                           <C>
Year ended December 31, 2001
     Allowance for doubtful accounts        $  12,857       26,322          (22,820)             -        16,359
     Valuation allowance for
        deferred tax assets                 $   8,302       13,689                -              -        21,991

Year ended December 31, 2000
     Allowance for doubtful accounts        $   4,150       17,904          (13,036)         3,839 (2)    12,857
     Valuation allowance for
        deferred tax assets                 $   2,593        6,211                -          (502) (3)     8,302

Year ended December 31, 1999
     Allowance for doubtful accounts        $   4,155        7,680           (7,494)         (191) (2)     4,150
     Valuation allowance for
        deferred tax assets                 $   6,716            -                -        (4,123) (3)     2,593
</TABLE>

(1)    Customers' accounts written-off, net of recoveries.

(2)    Allowance for doubtful accounts at the date of acquisition of purchased
       subsidiaries, net of allowance for doubtful accounts at the date of
       disposition of subsidiaries sold.

(3)    Adjust excess cost of net assets acquired upon utilization of net
       operating loss carryforwards of acquired subsidiary.





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
