<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>doc1.txt
<TEXT>

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended February 28, 2002
                          -----------------

                                       OR

[ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from                   to
                               -----------------    -----------------

                        Commission File Number 001-08495

                           CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC.
                           --------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                   Delaware                            16-0716709
                   --------                            ----------
         (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
          incorporation or organization)            Identification No.)


              300 WillowBrook Office Park, Fairport, New York 14450
              -----------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (585) 218-2169
                                                           --------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

       Title of each class        Name of each exchange on which registered
       -------------------        -----------------------------------------
   Class A Common Stock                    New York Stock Exchange
     (par value $.01 per share)
   Class B Common Stock                    New York Stock Exchange
     (par value $.01 per share)


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12  months  (or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required  to  file  such  reports),  and  (2)  have  been subject to such filing
requirements  for  the  past  90  days.  Yes  X     No
                                             ---       ---
<PAGE>

Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation  S-K  is  not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  Registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ ]

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  common  stock  held by non-affiliates of
Constellation Brands, Inc., as of May 15, 2002, was $2,127,752,903.

The  number of  shares outstanding with respect to each of the classes of common
stock  of  Constellation Brands, Inc., as of May 15, 2002, is set forth below:

                  Class                             Number of Shares Outstanding
                  -----                             ----------------------------
Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share               76,910,506
Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share               12,100,290

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The  proxy  statement  of Constellation Brands, Inc. to be issued for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 23, 2002 is incorporated by reference in
Part III.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
-------   --------

INTRODUCTION

     Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  term  "Company"  refers to
Constellation  Brands,  Inc.  and  its  subsidiaries, and all references to "net
sales"  refer  to  gross revenue less excise taxes and returns and allowances to
conform  with the Company's method of classification.  All references to "Fiscal
2002",  "Fiscal 2001" and "Fiscal 2000" shall refer to the Company's fiscal year
ended the last day of February of the indicated year.

     During  Fiscal  2001, the Company changed its name from Canandaigua Brands,
Inc.  to  Constellation Brands, Inc.  The new name better reflects the Company's
dynamic  growth,  promising  potential  and  diversified  portfolio  as  well as
provides  a  clear  distinction  between  the corporate parent and its operating
divisions.

     Market share and industry data disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
have  been obtained from the following industry and government publications: The
Gomberg-Fredrikson  Report;  Adams  Liquor  Handbook; Adams Wine Handbook; Adams
Beer  Handbook;  Adams  Media  Handbook  Advance;  The  U.S. Wine Market: Impact
Databank  Review  and Forecast; The U.S. Beer Market: Impact Databank Review and
Forecast; The U.S. Spirits Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast; NACM; AC
Nielsen;  The  Zenith  Guide; Beer Marketer's Insights; and The Drink Pocketbook
2001.  The  Company has not independently verified these data.  Unless otherwise
noted,  all  references to market share data are based on unit volume and unless
otherwise  noted, the most recent complete industry data available are for 2000.

     The Company is a leader in the production and marketing of beverage alcohol
brands  in  North America and the United Kingdom. As the second largest supplier
of  wine,  the  second  largest marketer of  imported beer and the third largest
supplier of distilled spirits, the Company is the largest single-source supplier
of these products in the United States.  In the United Kingdom, the Company is a
leading  marketer of wine, the second largest producer and marketer of cider and
a  leading  independent drinks wholesaler. With its broad product portfolio, the
Company  believes  it  is  distinctly positioned to satisfy an array of consumer
preferences  across  all  beverage  alcohol  categories.  Leading  brands in the
Company's  portfolio  include:   Franciscan  Oakville  Estate,  Simi,  Estancia,
Ravenswood,  Corona Extra, Modelo Especial, St. Pauli Girl, Almaden, Arbor Mist,
Talus,  Vendange,  Alice White, Black Velvet, Fleischmann's, Schenley, Ten High,
Stowells of Chelsea, Blackthorn and K.

     The  Company's  products  are  distributed  by  more  than  1,000 wholesale
distributors  in  North  America. In the United Kingdom, the Company distributes
its branded products and those of other companies to more than 16,500 customers.
The Company operates 29 production facilities throughout the world.  In addition
to  producing  and marketing its own brands, the Company also purchases products
for resale from other producers.

     The  Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as
the  successor  to  a  business founded in 1945. Since the Company's founding in
1945  as a producer and marketer of wine products, the Company has grown through
a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. The Company's internal growth
has  been  driven  by  leveraging  the  Company's  existing portfolio of leading
brands, developing new products, new packaging and line extensions, and focusing
on the faster growing sectors of the beverage alcohol industry. The acquisitions
of  Ravenswood Winery, Inc. ("Ravenswood"), the Corus Assets (as defined below),
the  Turner Road Vintners Assets (as defined below), Forth Wines Limited ("Forth
Wines"),  Franciscan  Vineyards,  Inc. ("Franciscan Estates"), Simi Winery, Inc.
("Simi"),

                                        1
<PAGE>

the  Black  Velvet  Assets  (as  defined  below) and Matthew Clark plc ("Matthew
Clark")  continued  a  series of strategic acquisitions made since 1991 by which
the  Company  has  broadened  its  portfolio and increased its market share, net
sales and cash flow.

COMMON STOCK SPLIT

     During April 2002, the  Board  of   Directors  of  the Company  approved  a
two-for-one  stock  split of both the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B
Common  Stock,  which was distributed in the form of a stock dividend on May 13,
2002, to stockholders of record on April 30, 2002.  Pursuant to the terms of the
stock  dividend,  each  holder  of  Class A Common Stock received one additional
share  of Class A stock for each share of Class A stock held, and each holder of
Class  B  Common  Stock  received one additional share of Class B stock for each
share  of  Class  B  stock  held.  All  share  and  per  share amounts have been
retroactively restated to give effect to the common stock split.

ACQUISITIONS IN FISCAL 2002, FISCAL 2001 AND FISCAL 2000 AND JOINT VENTURE

     Through  the  acquisitions  described  below  and  prior  acquisitions, the
Company  has  become more competitive by: diversifying its portfolio; developing
strong  market  positions  in the growing beverage alcohol product categories of
varietal  table  wine  and  imported  beer; strengthening its relationships with
wholesalers;  expanding   its   distribution   and   enhancing   its  production
capabilities;  and  acquiring additional management, operational, marketing, and
research and development expertise.

     ACQUISITION OF RAVENSWOOD WINERY

     On  July 2, 2001, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
of Ravenswood Winery, Inc. ("Ravenswood"), a leading premium wine producer based
in  Sonoma, California. Ravenswood produces, markets and sells super-premium and
ultra-premium  California  wine  primarily  under the Ravenswood brand name. The
preliminary  purchase price of Ravenswood, including assumption of indebtedness,
was $151.8 million. The Ravenswood acquisition was consistent with the Company's
strategy of further penetrating the higher gross profit margin super-premium and
ultra-premium wine categories. The acquired operations have been integrated into
the Fine Wine segment (as defined below).

     ACQUISITION OF THE CORUS ASSETS

     On  March  26,  2001, in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired certain
wine  brands,  wineries,  working  capital  (primarily  inventories),  and other
related  assets  from  Corus  Brands,  Inc.  (the  "Corus  Assets").   In   this
acquisition,  the  Company  acquired  several  well-known  premium  wine  brands
primarily sold in the northwestern United States, including Covey Run, Columbia,
Ste.  Chapelle  and  Alice  White.  The  preliminary purchase price of the Corus
Assets, including assumption of indebtedness, was $52.3 million plus an earn-out
over  six  years  based on the performance of the brands. In connection with the
transaction,  the  Company  also  entered into long-term grape supply agreements
with  affiliates  of  Corus  Brands,  Inc.  covering  more  than  1,000 acres of
Washington and Idaho vineyards.

     ACQUISITION OF THE TURNER ROAD VINTNERS ASSETS

     On  March  5,  2001,  in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired several
well-known  premium  wine brands, including Vendange, Nathanson Creek, Heritage,
and  Talus, working capital (primarily inventories), two wineries in California,
and  other  related  assets  from  Sebastiani Vineyards, Inc. and Tuolomne River
Vintners  Group  (the  "Turner  Road Vintners Assets"). The preliminary purchase
price  of the Turner Road Vintners Assets, including assumption of indebtedness,
was $289.8 million.

                                        2
<PAGE>

     The  acquisition  of  the  Corus  Assets, along with the acquisition of the
Turner  Road  Vintners  Assets,  has strengthened the Company's portfolio in the
higher  margin  and growing premium table wine category. The acquired operations
have  been  integrated  into  the  Popular  and Premium Wine segment (as defined
below).

     ACQUISITION OF FORTH WINES

     On October 27, 2000, the Company acquired all of the issued Ordinary Shares
and  Preference  Shares  of  Forth  Wines Limited ("Forth Wines").  The purchase
price  of  the  shares  was  $4.5  million.  The addition of Forth Wines further
strengthened  Matthew  Clark's  position  as one of the United Kingdom's leading
drinks  wholesalers,  and made Matthew Clark the leading provider of wine to the
on-premise  market  in  Scotland.  The  acquired operations have been integrated
into the U.K. Brands and Wholesale segment (as defined below).

     ACQUISITIONS OF FRANCISCAN ESTATES AND SIMI

     On June 4, 1999, the Company purchased all of the outstanding capital stock
of  Franciscan  Estates  and,  in  related  transactions,  purchased  vineyards,
equipment  and  other  vineyard  related  assets  located in Northern California
(collectively  the  "Franciscan Acquisition"). The purchase price of the shares,
including  the  assumption  of  indebtedness,  net  of cash acquired, was $243.2
million.   Franciscan   Estates  is  one  of  the  foremost  super-premium   and
ultra-premium wine companies in California.

     Also on  June 4, 1999, the Company purchased all of the outstanding capital
stock  of  Simi.  (The  acquisition  of  the  capital stock of Simi is hereafter
referred  to  as  the  "Simi Acquisition".) The purchase price of the shares was
$57.5  million.  The  Simi  Acquisition  included  the  Simi  winery (located in
Healdsburg, California), equipment, vineyards, inventory and worldwide ownership
of  the  Simi  brand  name.  Founded in 1876, Simi is one of the oldest and best
known wineries in California, combining a strong super-premium and ultra-premium
brand  with  a flexible and well-equipped facility and high quality vineyards in
the  key  Sonoma  appellation.  On  February  29,  2000,  Simi  was  merged into
Franciscan Estates.

     The  Franciscan  and Simi Acquisitions established the Company as a leading
producer  and  marketer  of  super-premium  and  ultra-premium  wine.  Together,
Franciscan  Estates,  Simi   and   Ravenswood  represent   one  of  the  largest
super-premium and ultra-premium wine companies in the United States. The Company
operates Franciscan Estates, Simi and Ravenswood, and their properties, together
as a separate business segment (collectively, "Fine Wine").

     ACQUISITION OF THE BLACK VELVET ASSETS

     On  April  9,  1999,  in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired several
well-known  Canadian  whisky  brands,  including  Black  Velvet,  the third best
selling Canadian whisky and the 16th best selling distilled spirits brand in the
United States, production facilities located in Alberta and Quebec, Canada, case
goods  and  bulk  whisky inventories and other related assets from affiliates of
Diageo  plc  (collectively,  the  "Black Velvet Assets"). Other principal brands
acquired  in  the  transaction were Golden Wedding, OFC, MacNaughton, McMaster's
and  Triple  Crown. In connection with the transaction, the Company also entered
into  multi-year  agreements  with affiliates of Diageo plc to provide packaging
and  distilling  services  for  various   brands  retained  by  the  Diageo  plc
affiliates.  The purchase price of the Black Velvet Assets was $183.6 million.

     The  addition  of  the  Canadian  whisky   brands  from   this  transaction
strengthened  the  Company's  position  in  the North American distilled spirits
category,   and   enhanced  the  Company's  portfolio  of  brands

                                        3
<PAGE>

and  category  participation.  The acquired operations have been integrated into
the Imported Beer and Spirits segment (as defined below).

     PACIFIC WINE PARTNERS

     On July 31, 2001, the Company and BRL Hardy Limited completed the formation
of  Pacific  Wine  Partners  LLC  ("PWP"),  a joint venture owned equally by the
Company and BRL Hardy Limited, the second largest wine company in Australia. PWP
produces,  markets  and  sells  a global portfolio of premium wine in the United
States,  including a range of Australian imports. PWP has exclusive distribution
rights in the United States and the Caribbean to seven brands - Banrock Station,
Hardys,  Leasingham,  Barossa Valley Estate and Chateau Reynella from Australia;
Nobilo  from  New Zealand; and La Baume from France. The joint venture also owns
Farallon, a premium California coastal wine.  In addition, PWP owns a winery and
controls 1,400 acres of vineyards, all located in Monterey County, California.

     The  Company  contributed  to  PWP  assets  with a carrying amount of $30.0
million  plus  $5.5  million  of  cash.  The Company sold assets with a carrying
amount  of  $31.2  million  to BRL Hardy (USA) Inc. ("Hardy") and received $34.9
million  in  cash.  Hardy  contributed these assets plus $5.5 million of cash to
PWP.  The  Company  and  PWP  are parties to the following agreements: crushing,
wine  production,  bottling,  storage, and related services agreement; inventory
supply  agreement;  sublease  and  assumption  agreements  pertaining to certain
vineyards,  which  agreements include a market value adjustment provision; and a
market  value  adjustment agreement relating to a certain vineyard lease held by
PWP.

     On  October 16, 2001, the Company announced that PWP completed the purchase
of  certain  assets of Blackstone Winery, including the Blackstone brand and the
Codera   wine  business  in  Sonoma  County   (the  "Blackstone  Assets").   The
preliminary  purchase  price of the Blackstone Assets was $138.1 million and was
financed equally by the Company and Hardy.

     The  investment  in  PWP  is  accounted   for  using  the   equity  method;
accordingly,  the  results  of  operations of PWP since July 31, 2001, have been
included  in  the  equity  in earnings of joint venture line in the Consolidated
Statements of Income of the Company.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

     The  Company  operates  primarily in the beverage alcohol industry in North
America  and  the  United  Kingdom. The Company reports its operating results in
five  segments:  Popular  and Premium Wine (branded popular and premium wine and
brandy,  and  other,  primarily grape juice concentrate and bulk wine); Imported
Beer  and  Spirits  (primarily imported beer and distilled spirits); U.K. Brands
and Wholesale (branded wine, cider and bottled water, and wholesale wine, cider,
distilled  spirits,  beer  and  soft  drinks);  Fine  Wine  (primarily   branded
super-premium  and  ultra-premium  wine)  and  Corporate  Operations  and  Other
(primarily corporate related items).

     Information  regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each
of the Company's business segments and information regarding geographic areas is
set  forth in Note 19 to the Company's consolidated financial statements located
in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     POPULAR AND PREMIUM WINE

     The Popular and Premium Wine segment produces, bottles, imports and markets
wine  and brandy in the United States. It is the second largest supplier of wine
in  the  United  States  and exports wine to approximately 60 countries from the
United  States.  This segment sells table wine, dessert wine, sparkling

                                        4
<PAGE>

wine  and  brandy.  Its leading brands include Alice White, Almaden, Arbor Mist,
Covey  Run,  Dunnewood,  Estate  Cellars, Inglenook, Manischewitz, Marcus James,
Paul  Masson,  Talus,  Taylor,  Vendange, Vina Santa Carolina, Cook's, J. Roget,
Richards  Wild Irish Rose, and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy. Most of its wine
is marketed in the $3.00 to $7.00 per 750 ml bottle price range.

     As a related part of  its U.S. wine  business, the Popular and Premium Wine
segment  is  a  leading  grape  juice concentrate producer in the United States.
Grape  juice  concentrate competes with other domestically produced and imported
fruit-based  concentrates.  Its other wine-related products and services include
bulk  wine,  cooking  wine,  grape juice and St. Regis, a leading de-alcoholized
line of wine in the United States.

     IMPORTED BEER AND SPIRITS

     The  Imported  Beer  and  Spirits segment imports and markets a diversified
line  of  beer  and produces, bottles, imports and markets a diversified line of
distilled  spirits.  It  is  the second largest marketer of imported beer in the
United  States  and  distributes  six  of the top 25 imported beer brands in the
United  States: Corona Extra, Modelo Especial, Corona Light, Pacifico, St. Pauli
Girl,  and  Negra  Modelo. Corona Extra is the best selling imported beer in the
United  States.  Its  other  imported  beer  brands include Tsingtao from China,
Peroni  from  Italy  and Double Diamond and Tetley's English Ale from the United
Kingdom.

     The  Imported  Beer  and  Spirits  segment is the third largest supplier of
distilled  spirits  in  the  United  States  and  exports  distilled  spirits to
approximately  25  countries  from  the  United  States. Its principal distilled
spirits  brands  include  Black Velvet, Fleischmann's, Mr. Boston, Canadian LTD,
Chi-Chi's prepared cocktails, Ten High, Montezuma, Barton, Monte Alban and Inver
House.  Substantially  all  of  this  segment's  distilled  spirits  unit volume
consists  of products marketed in the value and mid-premium priced category. The
Imported  Beer  and  Spirits  segment  also  sells distilled spirits in bulk and
provides contract production and bottling services for third parties.

     U.K. BRANDS AND WHOLESALE

     The U.K. Brands and Wholesale segment is a leading producer and marketer of
wine,  cider  and  bottled  water.  In  addition,  it is the leading independent
on-premise  drinks  wholesaler  throughout the United Kingdom. This segment also
exports  its  branded  products  to  approximately  45 countries from the United
Kingdom.

     The  U.K.  Brands  and Wholesale segment's Stowells of Chelsea brand is the
best  selling  branded  table  wine  in  the United Kingdom. This segment is the
largest  supplier of branded wine to the on-premise trade and a leading supplier
to  the  off-premise  trade in the United Kingdom. It maintains a leading market
share  position in fortified British wine through its QC and Stone's brand names
and a strong market position in the wine style drinks category through Babycham,
Country Manor and Arbor Mist.

     The  U.K.  Brands  and Wholesale segment is the second largest producer and
marketer  of  cider  in  the  United Kingdom. This segment distributes its cider
brands  in both the on-premise and off-premise markets. Its leading cider brands
include  Blackthorn,  the number two cider brand in the United Kingdom, Gaymer's
Olde  English,  the United Kingdom's second largest cider brand in the take-home
market,  Diamond  White  and  K. It also produces and markets Strathmore bottled
water  in  the  United  Kingdom,  the  fourth  largest bottled water brand and a
leading sparkling water brand.

     The  U.K.  Brands and Wholesale segment is the leading independent beverage
wholesaler  to  the  on-premise  trade  in the United Kingdom and has one of the
largest  customer  bases in the United Kingdom, with more than 16,000 on-premise
accounts.  Its  wholesaling  business involves the distribution

                                        5
<PAGE>

of  branded  wine,  distilled  spirits, cider, beer and soft drinks. While these
products  are  primarily  produced  by third parties, they also include the U.K.
Brands and Wholesale segment's branded wine, cider and water products.

     FINE WINE

     The  Fine  Wine  segment  is  a  major  player  in  the  super-premium  and
ultra-premium  wine market. The Fine Wine segment includes Estancia, Ravenswood,
Franciscan Oakville Estate, Simi, Veramonte, Mt. Veeder and Quintessa wines. The
portfolio  of  fine  wines  is  supported  by  the segment's winery and vineyard
holdings in California and Chile. These brands are marketed by a dedicated sales
force,  primarily focusing on high-end restaurants and fine wine shops. The Fine
Wine  segment  also  exports its products to approximately 25 countries from the
United States.

     CORPORATE OPERATIONS AND OTHER

     The  Corporate  Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate
related items and the results of an immaterial operation.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

     NORTH AMERICA

     The  Company's  products  are distributed and sold throughout North America
through  over  1,000  wholesalers,  as  well  as  through  state  and provincial
alcoholic beverage control agencies. The Popular and Premium Wine, Imported Beer
and  Spirits  and Fine Wine segments employ full-time, in-house marketing, sales
and  customer  service  organizations  to  develop  and  service  their sales to
wholesalers and state agencies.

     The Company believes that the organization of its sales force into separate
segments  positions  it  to  maintain  a  high  degree  of  focus on each of its
principal  product categories. However, where appropriate, the Company leverages
its sales and marketing skills across the organization, particularly in national
accounts.

     The  Company's  marketing strategy places primary emphasis upon promotional
programs  directed  at  its  broad  national  distribution  network,  and at the
retailers  served  by that network. The Company has extensive marketing programs
for  its  brands  including  promotional  programs  on both a national basis and
regional  basis  in  accordance  with  the strength of the brands, point-of-sale
materials, consumer media advertising, event sponsorship, market research, trade
advertising and public relations.

     UNITED KINGDOM

     The Company's U.K.-produced branded products are distributed throughout the
United  Kingdom  by  the  U.K.  Brands  and  Wholesale segment. The products are
packaged  at one of three production facilities. Shipments of cider and wine are
then  made  to  the  U.K.  Brands  and Wholesale segment's national distribution
center for branded products. All branded products are then distributed to either
the  on-premise  or  off-premise  markets  with  some of the sales to on-premise
customers  made  through  the  U.K.  Brands  and  Wholesale  segment's wholesale
business.  This  segment's  wholesale products are distributed through 11 depots
located  throughout the United Kingdom. On-premise distribution channels include
hotels,  restaurants,  pubs,  wine  bars and clubs. The off-premise distribution
channels include grocers, convenience retail and cash-and-carry outlets.

                                        6
<PAGE>

     The U.K. Brands and Wholesale segment employs full-time, in-house marketing
and  sales  organizations  that  separately  target  or  service the off-premise
customers  and  the  on-premise market in the United Kingdom for the U.K. Brands
and  Wholesale  segment's  branded  products  and the customers of its wholesale
business.

TRADEMARKS AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

     Trademarks  are  an important aspect of the Company's business. The Company
sells its products under a number of trademarks, most of which the Company owns.
Throughout  its segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution
agreements,  for  the production and/or sale of its products, as well as for the
sale  of  products  of third parties. These licenses and distribution agreements
have  varying terms and durations. Agreements include, among others, a long-term
license agreement with Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc., which expires in 2116, for the
Ten  High,  Crystal  Palace,  Northern  Light and Imperial Spirits brands; and a
long-term  license  agreement with the B. Manischewitz Company, which expires in
2042,  for  the  Manischewitz brand of kosher wine. On September 30, 1998, under
the  provisions  of  an  existing  long-term  license  agreement, Nabisco Brands
Company agreed to transfer to Barton all of its right, title and interest to the
corporate  name  "Fleischmann Distilling Company" and worldwide trademark rights
to the "Fleischmann" mark for alcoholic beverages. Pending the completion of the
assignment of such interests, the license will remain in effect.

     All  of the Company's imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant
to exclusive distribution agreements with the suppliers of these products. These
agreements  have  terms that vary and prohibit us from importing other beer from
other  producers  from  the  same country. The Company's agreement to distribute
Corona  Extra  and other Mexican beer brands exclusively throughout 25 primarily
western  U.S.  states  expires  in December 2006 and, subject to compliance with
certain  performance  criteria, continued retention of certain Company personnel
and  other  terms  under  the  agreement,  will  be  automatically  renewed  for
additional  terms  of  five  years.  Changes in control of the Company or of its
subsidiaries  involved  in  importing  the  Mexican  beer brands, changes in the
position  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer of Barton Beers, Ltd., including by
death or disability, or the termination of the President of Barton Incorporated,
may  be  a  basis  for  the  supplier,  unless  it  consents to such changes, to
terminate  the  agreement.  The  supplier's  consent  to such changes may not be
unreasonably  withheld. The Company's agreement for the importation of St. Pauli
Girl  expires  in December 2007. Prior to their expiration, these agreements may
be  terminated  if  the  Company fails to meet certain performance criteria. The
Company  believes  it is currently in compliance with its material imported beer
distribution  agreements.  From time to time, the Company has failed, and may in
the  future  fail,  to  satisfy certain performance criteria in its distribution
agreements.  Although  there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company's  beer
distribution  agreements  will   be  renewed,  given  the  Company's   long-term
relationships  with its suppliers, the Company expects that such agreements will
be  renewed prior to their expiration and does not believe that these agreements
will be terminated.

COMPETITION

      The  beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes
on  the  basis  of  quality,  price,  brand  recognition  and  distribution. The
Company's  beverage  alcohol   products   compete   with  other   alcoholic  and
nonalcoholic  beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail
stores,  a  presence  in  restaurants  and  marketing  focus  by  the  Company's
wholesalers.  The  Company  competes  with  numerous multinational producers and
distributors  of  beverage  alcohol  products,  some  of  which may have greater
resources  than  the Company. In the United States, the Popular and Premium Wine
segment's  principal  competitors include E & J Gallo Winery and The Wine Group.
The  Imported  Beer and Spirits segment's principal competitors include Heineken
USA,   Molson  Breweries  USA,  Labatt's  USA,  Guinness  Bass  Import  Company,
Brown-Forman  Beverages,  Jim Beam Brands and Heaven Hill Distilleries, Inc. The
Fine Wine segment's principal competitors include Beringer Blass,

                                        7
<PAGE>

Robert  Mondavi  Corp.,  and  Kendall-Jackson.  In  the United Kingdom, the U.K.
Brands  and  Wholesale  segment's  principal  competitors  include  H.P. Bulmer,
Halewood  Vintners,  Waverley  Vintners  and  Volvic.  In  connection  with  its
wholesale  business,  the  U.K.  Brands  and  Wholesale  segment distributes the
branded wine of third parties that compete directly against its own wine brands.

PRODUCTION

     In the United States, the Company's wine is produced from several varieties
of  wine  grapes  grown principally in California. The grapes are crushed at the
Company's  wineries  and  stored as wine, grape juice or concentrate. Such grape
products may be made into wine for sale under the Company's brand names, sold to
other  companies  for  resale under their own labels, or shipped to customers in
the  form of juice, juice concentrate, unfinished wine, high-proof grape spirits
or brandy. Most of the Company's wine is bottled and sold within 18 months after
the  grape crush. The Company's inventories of wine, grape juice and concentrate
are  usually  at their highest levels in November and December immediately after
the  crush  of each year's grape harvest, and are substantially reduced prior to
the subsequent year's crush.

     The bourbon whiskeys, domestic blended whiskeys and light whiskeys marketed
by  the Company are primarily produced and aged by the Company at its distillery
in  Bardstown,  Kentucky.  Following  the  Black  Velvet Assets acquisition, the
majority  of the Company's Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at
its  Canadian  distilleries in Lethbridge, Alberta, and Valleyfield, Quebec.  At
its  Albany,  Georgia,  facility,  the Company produces all of the neutral grain
spirits and whiskeys it uses in the production of vodka, gin and blended whiskey
it  sells  to  customers in the state of Georgia.  The Company's requirements of
Scotch  whisky,  tequila,  mezcal  and  the neutral grain spirits it uses in the
production  of  gin  and  vodka  for  sale outside of Georgia, and other spirits
products, are purchased from various suppliers.

     The  Company  operates three facilities in the United Kingdom that produce,
bottle  and  package cider, wine and water. To produce Stowells of Chelsea, wine
is  imported  in  bulk from various countries such as Australia, Chile, Germany,
France, Spain, South Africa and the United States, which is then packaged at the
Company's  facility  at  Bristol  and  distributed under the Stowells of Chelsea
brand  name.  The Bristol facility also produces fortified British wine and wine
style  drinks.  All cider  production  takes place at  the Company's facility at
Shepton Mallet, where apples of many different varieties are purchased from U.K.
growers  and  crushed.  This  juice, along with European-sourced concentrate, is
then  fermented  into cider, blended and then packaged.  The Strathmore brand of
bottled  water  (which is available in still, sparkling, and flavored varieties)
is sourced and bottled in Forfar, Scotland.

     The  Company  operates  one winery in Chile that crushes, vinifies, cellars
and bottles wine.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

     The  principal  components  in  the  production  of  the  Company's branded
beverage  alcohol  products  are  packaging   materials  (primarily  glass)  and
agricultural products, such as grapes and grain.  The Company utilizes glass and
polyethylene  terephthalate  ("PET")  bottles  and other materials such as caps,
corks,  capsules,  labels and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of
its  products.  Glass  bottle  costs  are  one  of the largest components of the
Company's  cost   of   product  sold.   The  glass  bottle  industry  is  highly
concentrated  with   only  a  small  number  of   producers.   The  Company  has
traditionally  obtained,  and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a
limited  number  of  producers.  The  Company  has not experienced difficulty in
satisfying  its  requirements with respect to any of the foregoing and considers
its  sources  of  supply  to  be adequate.  However, the inability of any of the
Company's  glass  bottle  suppliers  to satisfy the Company's requirements could
adversely affect the Company's operations.

                                        8
<PAGE>

     Most  of the Company's annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases
from  each  year's  harvest  which  normally  begins  in August and runs through
October.  The Company believes that it has adequate sources of grape supplies to
meet  its  sales  expectations.  However,  in  the event demand for certain wine
products exceeds expectations, the Company could experience shortages.

     The  Company  purchases  grapes from approximately 800 independent growers,
principally  in  the  San  Joaquin Valley and Central and North Coast regions of
California.  The Company enters into written purchase agreements with a majority
of  these  growers on a year-to-year basis. The Company currently owns or leases
approximately  6,500  acres of land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under
development,  in  California,  New  York and Chile. This acreage supplies only a
small percentage of the Company's total needs. The Company continues to consider
the  purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for vineyard
plantings, to supplement its grape supply.

     The  distilled  spirits  manufactured   by  the  Company   require  various
agricultural  products,  neutral  grain  spirits  and  bulk spirits. The Company
fulfills  its  requirements  through  purchases  from  various  sources  through
contractual  arrangements  and through purchases on the open market. The Company
believes  that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at
the present time.

     In  the  United  Kingdom,  the  Company  manufactures  wine  and cider from
materials that are purchased either on a contracted basis or on the open market.
In  particular,  supplies  of  cider apples are sourced through long-term supply
arrangements  with  owners of apple orchards. There are adequate supplies of the
various raw materials at this particular time.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The  Company's  operations  in  the  United States are subject to extensive
federal  and  state  regulation.  These  regulations cover, among other matters,
sales  promotion,  advertising  and  public  relations,  labeling and packaging,
changes in officers or directors, ownership or control, distribution methods and
relationships,  and requirements regarding brand registration and the posting of
prices  and  price  changes.  All of the Company's operations and facilities are
also  subject  to  federal,  state,  foreign  and  local  environmental laws and
regulations  and  the  Company  is  required  to  obtain permits and licenses to
operate its facilities.

     In the United Kingdom, the Company has secured a Customs and Excise License
to carry on its excise trade.  Licenses are required for all premises where wine
is  produced.  The  Company  holds  a  license  to  act  as  an excise warehouse
operator.  Registrations  have  been  secured  for  the  production of cider and
bottled water.  Formal approval of product labeling is not required.

     In  Canada,  the Company's operations are also subject to extensive federal
and  provincial  regulation.  These  regulations  cover,  among  other  matters,
advertising  and public relations, labeling and packaging, environmental matters
and  customs  and  duty  requirements.  The  Company  is also required to obtain
licenses and permits to operate its facilities.

     The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with
all  applicable  governmental  laws  and   regulations  and  that  the  cost  of
administration  and  compliance  with,  and  liability   under,  such  laws  and
regulations  does  not  have,  and  is  not expected to have, a material adverse
impact  on  the  Company's  financial  condition,  results of operations or cash
flows.

                                        9
<PAGE>

EMPLOYEES

     The  Company  had  approximately  2,960  full-time  employees in the United
States  at  the  end  of  April 2002, of which approximately 840 were covered by
collective  bargaining  agreements.  Additional  workers  may be employed by the
Company during the grape crushing season.

     The  Company  had  approximately 1,900  full-time  employees  in the United
Kingdom  at  the  end of  April 2002, of which approximately 420 were covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  Additional workers may be employed during the
peak season.

     The Company  had approximately 220 full-time employees in Canada at the end
of April 2002, of which approximately 170 were covered by collective  bargaining
agreements.

     The Company considers its employee relations generally to be good.

                INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  contains "forward-looking statements"
within  the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E
of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are
subject  to  a  number  of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the
Company's  control,  that  could  cause actual results to differ materially from
those  set  forth  in,  or  implied  by,  such  forward-looking  statements. All
statements  other  than  statements  of historical facts included in this Annual
Report  on  Form 10-K, including the statements under this Item 1 "Business" and
Item  7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of  Operations"  regarding  our  business  strategy,  future financial position,
prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning
expected   actions  of   third  parties  are  forward-looking  statements.   All
forward-looking  statements  speak  only as of the date of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  The  Company  undertakes  no  obligation  to  update  or revise any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as  a  result  of new information, future
events  or  otherwise.  Although  the  Company  believes  that  the expectations
reflected  in  the  forward-looking  statements  are  reasonable, it can give no
assurance  that  such  expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to the
risks  and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, important factors that
could  cause  actual  results  to  differ materially from those set forth in, or
implied  by  the  Company's  forward-looking statements contained in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K are as follows:

COMPETITION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS.

     The  Company is in a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount, and
unit  volume,  of  its  sales  could  be negatively affected by its inability to
maintain  or  increase  prices,  changes in geographic or product mix, a general
decline  in  beverage  alcohol  consumption  or  the  decision  of our wholesale
customers,  retailers  or  consumers to purchase competitive products instead of
the  Company's  products. Wholesaler, retailer and consumer purchasing decisions
are  influenced  by,  among  other  things,  the  perceived absolute or relative
overall  value  of  the  Company's products, including their quality or pricing,
compared  to  competitive  products.  Unit volume and dollar sales could also be
affected  by   pricing,  purchasing,  financing,  operational,  advertising   or
promotional decisions made by wholesalers and retailers which could affect their
supply  of,  or  consumer  demand for, the Company's products. The Company could
also  experience  higher  than  expected  selling,  general  and  administrative
expenses  if  the  Company  finds  it  necessary  to  increase the number of its
personnel or advertising or promotional expenditures to maintain its competitive
position or for other reasons.

                                       10
<PAGE>

INCREASE  IN  EXCISE  TAXES  AND  GOVERNMENT  RESTRICTIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL
ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS.

In the United States, the federal government and individual states impose excise
taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts which have been subject to
change.  In  addition,  the  beverage  alcohol  products  industry is subject to
extensive  regulation  by state and federal agencies. The federal U.S. Bureau of
Alcohol,  Tobacco and Firearms and the various state liquor authorities regulate
such  matters  as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, permitted
and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers.
Certain  federal  and state regulations also require warning labels and signage.
In  the  United Kingdom, Matthew Clark carries on its operations under a Customs
and  Excise  License.  Licenses  are  required  for  all  premises where wine is
produced.  Matthew  Clark holds a license to act as an excise warehouse operator
and  registrations  have  been  secured  for the production of cider and bottled
water.  Increases  in  excise  taxes  on beverage alcohol products in the United
States  or the United Kingdom, if enacted, could materially and adversely affect
the  Company's  financial  condition  or  results  of operations. New or revised
regulations  or  increased  licensing  fees  and  requirements could also have a
material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  financial condition or results of
operations.

THE COMPANY RELIES ON  THE PERFORMANCE OF WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE SUCCESS
OF ITS BUSINESS.

     In  the  United  States,  the  Company  sells  its  products principally to
wholesalers  for  resale  to  retail  outlets  including grocery stores, package
liquor stores, club and discount stores and restaurants. The replacement or poor
performance  of  the  Company's  major wholesalers or the Company's inability to
collect  accounts  receivable   from  the  Company's   major  wholesalers  could
materially  and  adversely  affect  the  Company's  results  of  operations  and
financial  condition.  Distribution  channels for beverage alcohol products have
been  characterized in recent years by rapid change, including consolidations of
certain  wholesalers.  In  addition,  wholesalers and retailers of the Company's
products  offer  products which compete directly with the Company's products for
retail  shelf  space  and  consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that
these  wholesalers  or  retailers  may  give  higher priority to products of the
Company's  competitors.  In  the future, the Company's wholesalers and retailers
may  not  continue  to  purchase the Company's products or provide the Company's
products with adequate levels of promotional support.

THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS COULD  BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A GENERAL  DECLINE IN THE
CONSUMPTION OF PRODUCTS THE COMPANY SELLS.

     In  the United States, notwithstanding the fact that there have been modest
increases  in  consumption of beverage alcohol in the most recent few years, the
overall  per  capita consumption of beverage alcohol products by adults (ages 21
and  over)  has declined substantially over the past 20 years. A general decline
in consumption could be caused by a variety of factors, including:

     -  a  general  decline  in  economic  conditions;

     -  increased  concern  about  the health consequences of consuming beverage
        alcohol products and about drinking and driving;

     -  a  trend  toward  a  healthier  diet  including  lighter,  lower calorie
        beverages such as diet soft drinks, juices and water products;

     -  the  increased  activity  of anti-alcohol consumer groups; and

     -  increased federal and state excise taxes.

                                       11
<PAGE>

THE COMPANY GENERALLY DOES NOT  HAVE LONG-TERM SUPPLY CONTRACTS AND  THE COMPANY
IS SUBJECT TO  SUBSTANTIAL  PRICE  FLUCTUATIONS  FOR  GRAPES  AND  GRAPE-RELATED
MATERIALS; THE COMPANY HAS A LIMITED GROUP OF SUPPLIERS OF GLASS BOTTLES.

     The  Company's  business  is  heavily dependent upon raw materials, such as
grapes,  grape  juice  concentrate, grains, alcohol and packaging materials from
third-party  suppliers.  The  Company  could  experience  raw  material  supply,
production  or  shipment difficulties which could adversely affect the Company's
ability  to supply goods to its customers. The Company is also directly affected
by  increases  in  the costs of such raw materials. In the past, the Company has
experienced  dramatic  increases  in  the  cost  of grapes. Although the Company
believes  it  has  adequate  sources  of grape supplies, in the event demand for
certain  wine  products  exceeds  expectations,  the  Company  could  experience
shortages. In addition, one of the Company's largest components of cost of goods
sold  is that of glass bottles, which have only a small number of producers. The
inability  of  any  of  the  Company's  glass  bottle  suppliers  to satisfy its
requirements could adversely affect the Company's business.

CURRENCY RATE FLUCTUATIONS/FOREIGN OPERATIONS.

     The  Company  has  operations  in  different  countries  and, therefore, is
subject  to the risks associated with currency fluctuations.   The Company could
experience  changes  in its ability to obtain or hedge against foreign currency,
foreign  exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates.  The Company could also
be  affected  by  nationalizations  or  unstable governments or legal systems or
intergovernmental   disputes.    These   currency,   economic   and    political
uncertainties  may  affect the Company's results, especially to the extent these
matters,  or  the  decisions,  policies  or  economic  strength of the Company's
suppliers, affect the Company's foreign operations or imported beer products.

THE COMPANY'S ACQUISITION OR JOINT VENTURE STRATEGIES MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL.

     The  Company  has  made  a  number  of  acquisitions,  including the recent
acquisitions  of  Ravenswood,  the  Turner  Road  Vintners  Assets and the Corus
Assets,  and  anticipates  that  it  may,  from time to time, acquire additional
businesses,  assets  or  securities of companies that the Company believes would
provide  a  strategic  fit  with its business. In addition, the Company recently
entered  into  a  joint  venture,  PWP,  with BRL Hardy. Also, PWP completed its
acquisition  of  the  Blackstone  Assets  and  may acquire other businesses. The
Company may enter into additional joint ventures. Acquired business will need to
be  integrated with the Company's existing operations. There can be no assurance
that  the  Company will effectively assimilate the business or product offerings
of  acquired  companies into its business or product offerings. Any acquisitions
will  also  be  accompanied  by  risks  such  as  potential  exposure to unknown
liabilities  of  acquired  companies  and the possible loss of key employees and
customers of the acquired business. Acquisitions are subject to risks associated
with  the  difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of
the  acquired  companies, the potential disruption to the Company's business and
the  diversion  of  management time and attention. The Company shares control of
PWP equally with BRL Hardy, and may not have majority interest or control of any
future  joint  venture. There is the risk that our joint venture partners may at
any  time  have  economic,  business  or  legal  interests  or  goals  that  are
inconsistent  with those of the joint venture or the Company. There is also risk
that  the  Company's joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic
or  other  obligations  and  that  the  Company may be required to fulfill those
obligations  alone.  The  Company's failure or the failure of an entity in which
the  Company  has  a  joint  venture  interest  to  adequately  manage the risks
associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

                                       12
<PAGE>

THE COMPANY HAS A MATERIAL AMOUNT OF GOODWILL, AND IF THE COMPANY IS REQUIRED TO
WRITE DOWN GOODWILL DUE TO IMPAIRMENT, IT WOULD REDUCE THE COMPANY'S NET INCOME,
WHICH  IN  TURN  COULD  MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS.

     Approximately  $675.2  million (net of accumulated amortization), or 22.0%,
of  our  total assets as of February 28, 2002, represented unamortized goodwill.
Goodwill  is the amount by which the costs of an acquisition accounted for using
the  purchase  method  exceeds the fair market value of the net assets acquired.
The  Company  was  required  to  record  goodwill  as an intangible asset on the
balance  sheet  and  to  amortize  it  over  a  period of years. The Company has
historically  amortized  goodwill  on  a straight-line basis over a period of 40
years.  Even though it reduced the Company's net income for accounting purposes,
a  portion of the amortization of goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. Prior
to  March 1, 2002, the Company was required to evaluate periodically whether the
Company  could  recover its remaining goodwill from the undiscounted future cash
flows  that  the  Company  expected to  receive  from the operations of acquired
businesses.  If  these undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying value
of  the  associated  goodwill,  the  goodwill  was deemed to be impaired and the
Company  would  have  reduced  the  carrying  value of the goodwill to equal the
discounted  future  cash  flows  and  recorded  the amount of the reduction as a
charge against net income.

     On July 20, 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets"
("SFAS  No.  142").  SFAS  No.  142  became  effective  on  July  1,  2001,  for
acquisitions occurring on or after that date and has been adopted by the Company
on March 1, 2002, for acquisitions that occurred prior to July 1, 2001. SFAS No.
142  results in goodwill no longer being amortized. Instead, goodwill is subject
to  a  periodic  impairment  evaluation based on the fair value of the reporting
unit.  Reductions in the Company's net income caused by a write-down of goodwill
could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations.

THE  TERMINATION  OR  NON-RENEWAL OF IMPORTED BEER DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS COULD
HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS.

     All  of the Company's imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant
to  exclusive distribution agreements with the suppliers of these products which
are  subject to renewal from time to time. Our exclusive agreement to distribute
Corona  Extra  and  our  other  Mexican beer brands in 25 primarily western U.S.
states  expires  in  December  2006  and,  subject  to  compliance  with certain
performance  criteria,  continued retention of certain personnel and other terms
of  the  agreement,  will  be automatically renewed for additional terms of five
years.  Changes  in  control  of  the  Company  or  its subsidiaries involved in
importing  the Mexican beer brands, or changes in the chief executive officer of
such  subsidiaries,  may be a basis for the supplier, unless it consents to such
changes,  to terminate the agreement. The supplier's consent to such changes may
not be unreasonably withheld. Prior to their expiration, these agreements may be
terminated  if  the  Company  fails  to  meet  certain performance criteria. The
Company  believes  that  it  is currently in compliance with all of its material
imported beer distribution agreements. From time to time the Company has failed,
and  may  in  the  future  fail,  to satisfy certain performance criteria in the
Company's  distribution  agreements.  It  is  possible  that  the Company's beer
distribution  agreements  may  not  be  renewed  or  may  be terminated prior to
expiration.

THE COMPANY'S INDEBTEDNESS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON ITS FINANCIAL
HEALTH.

     The  Company  has   incurred  substantial   indebtedness  to   finance  its
acquisitions  and may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to
finance  further  acquisitions.  The  Company's ability to satisfy its financial
obligations  under the Company's indebtedness outstanding from time to time will
depend  upon  the  Company's  future  operating performance, which is subject to
prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business
and  other  factors,  many of which are beyond the

                                       13
<PAGE>

Company's  control. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Company's cash
flow  from  operations  will  be  sufficient  to  meet  all  of its debt service
requirements and to fund its capital expenditure requirements.

     The  Company's  current  and  future debt service obligations and covenants
could  have  important consequences. Such obligations and covenants, include and
may include the following:

     -  the  Company's  ability  to  obtain financing for future working capital
        needs or acquisitions or other purposes may be limited;

     -  a significant portion of the Company's cash flow from operations will be
        dedicated  to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness,
      thereby reducing funds available for operations;

     -  the  Company  is  subject  to restrictive covenants that could limit its
        ability to conduct its business; and

     -  the  Company  may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than
        less leveraged  competitors  and, thus, may be limited in its ability to
        withstand competitive pressures.

     The  restrictive covenants included in the Company's senior credit facility
and  its  indentures  include, among others, those restricting additional liens,
additional  borrowing,  the  sale  of assets, changes of control, the payment of
dividends,  transactions  with affiliates, the making of investments and certain
other fundamental changes. The senior credit facility also contains restrictions
on  acquisitions  and  certain  financial  ratio tests including a debt coverage
ratio,  a  senior  debt  coverage  ratio,  a fixed charges ratio and an interest
coverage  ratio. These restrictions could limit the Company's ability to conduct
business.  A  failure  to  comply  with  the obligations contained in the senior
credit facility or its indentures could result in an event of default under such
agreements,  which  could  require  the Company to immediately repay the related
debt and also debt under other agreements that may contain cross-acceleration or
cross-default provisions.

                         -----------------------------

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
-------   ----------

     The  Company  consists  of four business operating segments.  Through these
business  segments,  the Company currently operates wineries, distilling plants,
bottling plants, and cider and water producing facilities, most of which include
warehousing  and  distribution  facilities  on  the  premises.  The Company also
operates  separate  distribution  centers  under  the  U.K. Brands and Wholesale
segment's wholesaling business.  The Company believes that all of its facilities
are  in  good condition and working order and have adequate capacity to meet its
needs  for  the  foreseeable  future.  The  Company's corporate headquarters are
located in offices leased in Fairport, New York.

     POPULAR AND PREMIUM WINE

     The  Popular  and  Premium Wine segment maintains its headquarters in owned
and  leased  offices in Canandaigua, New York. It operates three wineries in New
York,  located  in  Canandaigua, Naples and Batavia, six wineries in California,
located  in Madera, Lodi, Escalon, Fresno and Ukiah, two wineries in Washington,
located  in Woodinville and Sunnyside, and one winery in Caldwell, Idaho. All of
the  facilities  in  which  these  wineries  operate  are  owned, except for the
wineries  in  Batavia (New York), Caldwell (Idaho) and Woodinville (Washington),
which  are  leased.  This  segment  considers  its  principal wineries to be the
Mission  Bell  winery  in  Madera  (California)  and  the  Canandaigua winery in
Canandaigua  (New  York).  The  Mission  Bell  winery  crushes grapes, produces,
bottles  and  distributes

                                       14
<PAGE>

wine and produces grape juice concentrate. The Canandaigua winery crushes grapes
and produces, bottles and distributes wine.

     This  segment  currently  owns  or  leases  approximately  2,800  acres  of
vineyards, either  fully  bearing  or  under development, in  California and New
York.

     IMPORTED BEER AND SPIRITS

     The  Imported Beer and Spirits segment maintains its headquarters in leased
offices  in  Chicago, Illinois. It owns and operates four distilling plants, two
in  the United States and two in Canada. The two distilling plants in the United
States  are  located  in  Bardstown,  Kentucky  and  Albany,  Georgia.  The  two
distilling  plants  in  Canada, which were acquired in connection with the Black
Velvet  Acquisition, are located in Valleyfield, Quebec and Lethbridge, Alberta.
This  segment  considers  its  principal  distilling plants to be the facilities
located  in Bardstown (Kentucky), Valleyfield (Quebec) and Lethbridge (Alberta).
The  Bardstown  facility  distills,  bottles  and  warehouses  distilled spirits
products  for  the  Company  and,  on  a  contractual  basis, for other industry
members.  The  two Canadian facilities distill, bottle and store Canadian whisky
for  the  segment,  and  distill and/or bottle and store Canadian whisky, vodka,
rum, gin and liqueurs for third parties.

     In  the  United States, the Imported Beer and Spirits segment also operates
three  bottling  plants,  located  in  Georgia,  Kentucky  and  California.  The
facilities  located in Atlanta, Georgia and Owensboro, Kentucky are owned, while
the facility in Carson, California is operated and leased through an arrangement
involving  an  ongoing management contract.  This segment considers the bottling
plant  located  in  Owensboro  (Kentucky) to be one of its principal facilities.
The Owensboro facility bottles and warehouses distilled spirits products for the
segment and is also utilized for contract bottling.

     U.K. BRANDS AND WHOLESALE

     The  U.K.  Brands and Wholesale segment maintains its headquarters in owned
offices  in  Bristol,  England. It currently owns and operates two facilities in
England,  located  in  Bristol  and Shepton Mallet and one facility in Scotland,
located  in  Forfar.  This  segment  considers  all  three  facilities to be its
principal  facilities. The Bristol facility produces, bottles and packages wine;
the Shepton Mallet facility produces, bottles and packages cider; and the Forfar
facility  produces,  bottles  and  packages  water products. The U.K. Brands and
Wholesale segment also owns another facility in Taunton, England, which it plans
to sell  since the operations  have  been  consolidated into the  Shepton Mallet
facility.

     The  U.K.  Brands  and  Wholesale  segment operates a National Distribution
Centre,  located  at  a leased facility in Severnside, England to distribute its
products  that  are  produced  at the Bristol and Shepton Mallet facilities.  To
support  its wholesaling business, this segment operates 11 distribution centers
located  throughout  the  United  Kingdom,  10  of  which  are leased.  These 11
distribution  centers are used to distribute products produced by third parties,
as  well  as  by  the  Company.   This  segment  has  been  and   will  continue
consolidating the operations of its wholesaling distribution centers.

     FINE WINE

     The  Fine  Wine  segment  maintains  its  headquarters  in offices owned in
Rutherford,  California. Through this segment, the Company owns and operates six
wineries  in  the  United  States,  one of which is on land that is leased, and,
through  a  majority  owned  subsidiary,  operates  one winery in Chile. All six
wineries  in  the  United  States  are  located  in  the state of California, in
Rutherford,  Healdsburg,  Monterey County, Napa County and two in Sonoma County.
The  winery in Chile is located in the Casablanca Valley. This segment considers
its  principal  wineries to be one of its wineries in Sonoma County (California)
and  its  wineries  located in Rutherford (California), Healdsburg (California),
Monterey

                                       15
<PAGE>

County  (California),  and the Casablanca Valley (Chile). The winery in Monterey
County  crushes,  vinifies  and cellars wine. The other principal wineries crush
grapes, vinify, cellar and bottle wine.

     This  segment  also  owns and leases approximately 2,700 plantable acres of
vineyards  in California and approximately 1,000 plantable acres of vineyards in
Chile.


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
-------   -----------------

     The  Company  and  its  subsidiaries are subject to litigation from time to
time  in  the ordinary course of business.  Although the amount of any liability
with  respect  to  such  litigation  cannot  be  determined,  in  the opinion of
management  such  liability  will  not  have  a  material  adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
-------   ---------------------------------------------------

     Not Applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     Information  with  respect to the current executive officers of the Company
is as follows:

NAME                       AGE     OFFICE HELD
----                       ---     -----------
Richard  Sands             51      Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
                                   Executive Officer
Robert  Sands              43      Group President
Alexander L. Berk          52      President and Chief Executive Officer of
                                   Barton Incorporated
Agustin Francisco Huneeus  36      President and Chief Executive Officer of
                                   Franciscan Vineyards, Inc.
Tim Kelly                  44      Chief Operating Officer, Constellation
                                   International
Jon Moramarco              45      President and Chief Executive Officer of
                                   Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
Thomas J. Mullin           50      Executive Vice President and General Counsel
George H. Murray           55      Executive Vice President and Chief Human
                                   Resources Officer
Richard Peters             42      Chief Operating Officer of Matthew Clark plc
Thomas S. Summer           48      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
                                   Officer


     Richard  Sands,  Ph.D.,  has  been  employed  by  the  Company  in  various
capacities  since  1979.  He was elected Executive Vice President and a director
in  1982,  became  President  and  Chief  Operating  Officer in May 1986 and was
elected  Chief  Executive Officer in October 1993.  In September 1999, Mr. Sands
was elected Chairman of the Board.  He is the brother of Robert Sands.

     Robert  Sands was appointed Group President in April 2000 and has served as
a  director  since  January  1990.  Mr. Sands also had served as Chief Executive
Officer,  International from December 1998 through April 2000, as Executive Vice
President  from  October  1993  through April 2000, as General Counsel from June
1986 through May 2000 and as Vice President from June 1990 through October 1993.
He is the brother of Richard Sands.

     Alexander  L.  Berk  is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Barton
Incorporated,  a  wholly  owned subsidiary of the Company. In this capacity, Mr.
Berk is in charge of the Imported Beer and Spirits segment. Since 1990 and prior
to  becoming  Chief  Executive Officer in March 1998, Mr. Berk was President and
Chief  Operating  Officer  of Barton and from 1988 to 1990, he was the President
and  Chief

                                       16
<PAGE>

Executive  Officer  of  Schenley  Industries.  Mr. Berk has been in the beverage
alcohol industry for most of his career, serving in various positions.

     Agustin  Francisco  Huneeus is the President and Chief Executive Officer of
Franciscan  Vineyards,  Inc.,  a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. In this
capacity, Mr. Huneeus is in charge of the Fine Wine segment. Since December 1995
and prior to becoming President in May 2000, he served in various positions with
Franciscan,  the  last  of which was Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing.
From  June  1994  to  December 1995, he was an associate in the branded consumer
venture group of Hambrecht & Quist.

     Tim  Kelly  joined  the  Company  as Chief Operating Officer, Constellation
International in February 2002. Prior to joining the Company, he was employed by
Diageo  plc  and  served  as  President  of Guinness-Bass Import Company (a U.S.
Subsidiary  of  Diageo)  from  1998  to  2001  and  as Vice President Marketing,
Guinness  Ireland  from  1995  to  1998.  For the previous nine years, Mr. Kelly
served  in  various  marketing  and  sales  positions  at  Coca Cola & Schweppes
Beverages.

     Jon  Moramarco  joined  Canandaigua  Wine  Company,  Inc.,  a  wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, in November 1999 as its President and Chief Executive
Officer. In this capacity, Mr. Moramarco is in charge of the Popular and Premium
Wine  segment.  Prior  to  joining  Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc., he served as
President  and  Chief  Executive Officer of Allied Domecq Wines, USA since 1992.
Mr. Moramarco has more than 15 years of diverse experience in the wine industry,
including  prior  service  as  Chairman  of the American Vintners Association, a
national wine trade organization.

     Thomas J. Mullin joined the Company as Executive Vice President and General
Counsel  in  May  2000.  Prior  to  joining  the  Company,  Mr. Mullin served as
President  and  Chief Executive Officer of TD Waterhouse Bank, NA since February
2000,  of  CT  USA, F.S.B. since September 1998, and of CT USA, Inc. since March
1997.  He  also  served  as  Executive  Vice President, Business Development and
Corporate  Strategy  of  C.T.  Financial  Services, Inc. from March 1997 through
February  2000.  From  1985 through 1997, Mr. Mullin served as Vice Chairman and
Senior Executive Vice President of First Federal Savings and Loan Association of
Rochester, New York and from 1982 through 1985, he was a partner in the law firm
of Phillips, Lytle, Hitchcock, Blaine & Huber.

     George  H. Murray joined the Company in April 1997 as Senior Vice President
and  Chief  Human Resources Officer and in April 2000 was elected Executive Vice
President.  From  August 1994 to April 1997, Mr. Murray served as Vice President
-  Human  Resources  and Corporate Communications of ACC Corp., an international
long  distance reseller.  For eight and a half years prior to that, he served in
various  senior  management  positions  with  First  Federal  Savings  and  Loan
Association  of  Rochester,  New  York,  including  the  position of Senior Vice
President of Human Resources and Marketing from 1991 to 1994.

     Richard  Peters  is  the  Chief  Operating  Officer of Matthew Clark plc, a
wholly  owned subsidiary of the Company. Since May 1, 2002, in this capacity, he
is  in  charge  of  the  U.K.  Brands and Wholesale segment. Mr. Peters has been
employed  by Matthew Clark since 1994 in various management positions, including
positions  in  production  and  operations.  Prior  to his employment at Matthew
Clark,  for  three  years,  he  was  a  Management  Consultant  with AT Kearney,
responsible for marketing and strategy projects for a wide range of clients.

     Thomas  S. Summer joined the Company in April l997 as Senior Vice President
and  Chief  Financial  Officer  and  in  April  2000  was elected Executive Vice
President.  From  November  1991  to  April  1997,  Mr.  Summer  served  as Vice
President,  Treasurer  of  Cardinal  Health,  Inc., a large national health care
services  company,  where  he was responsible for directing financing strategies
and  treasury  matters.  Prior to that, from November 1987 to November 1991, Mr.
Summer  held  several  positions in corporate finance and international treasury
with PepsiCo, Inc.

                                       17
<PAGE>

     Executive officers of the Company hold office until the next Annual Meeting
of the Board of Directors and until their successors are chosen and qualify.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET  FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
-------   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          MATTERS
          -------

     On  September  19, 2000, when the Company changed its name to Constellation
Brands, Inc., the Company's Class A Common Stock (the "Class A Stock") and Class
B  Common  Stock  (the  "Class  B  Stock")  began  trading on the New York Stock
Exchange  (R)  ("NYSE")  under  the  symbols  STZ  and STZ.B, respectively. From
October 12, 1999, to September 18, 2000, the Company's Class A Stock and Class B
Stock traded on the NYSE under the symbols CDB and CDB.B, respectively. Prior to
October  12,  1999,  the Company's Class A Stock and Class B Stock traded on the
Nasdaq  Stock  Market  (R)  ("NASDAQ")   under  the  symbols  CBRNA  and  CBRNB,
respectively.  (The  Company  delisted voluntarily its securities from NASDAQ in
order to list its Class A Stock and Class B Stock on the NYSE.)


     The  following  tables set forth for the periods indicated the high and low
sales  prices  of  the  Class A Stock and the Class B Stock, as adjusted to give
retroactive  effect  to  the  May  13,  2002,  two-for-one stock split.  For all
periods  of  Fiscal  2002  and Fiscal 2001, the high and low sales prices of the
Class A Stock and Class B Stock reflect trades on the NYSE.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    CLASS A STOCK
                -----------------------------------------------------
                1st Quarter   2nd Quarter   3rd Quarter   4th Quarter
                -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>             <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Fiscal 2001
  High          $     13.94   $     13.89   $     14.61   $     17.15
  Low           $     10.09   $     10.95   $     11.47   $     11.75

Fiscal 2002
  High          $     20.00   $     23.25   $     22.50   $     27.18
  Low           $     15.65   $     18.40   $     17.38   $     19.01

                                    CLASS B STOCK
                -----------------------------------------------------
                1st Quarter   2nd Quarter   3rd Quarter   4th Quarter
                -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
Fiscal 2001
  High          $     13.50   $     13.75   $     14.03   $     16.75
  Low           $     10.63   $     12.06   $     12.00   $     12.25

Fiscal 2002
  High          $     19.95   $     23.00   $     21.63   $     26.67
  Low           $     16.08   $     19.50   $     19.75   $     19.93

</TABLE>

     At May 15, 2002, the number of holders of record of Class A Stock and Class
B Stock of the Company were 954 and 249, respectively.

     The  Company's  policy  is  to  retain  all  of its earnings to finance the
development and expansion of its business, and the Company has not paid any cash
dividends  since its initial public offering in 1973. In addition, the Company's
current  senior  credit facility, the Company's indenture for its $200 million 8
5/8%  Senior Notes due August 2006, its indenture for its $200 million 8% Senior
Notes  due  February  2008,  its  indenture  for  its $200 million 8 1/2% Senior
Subordinated  Notes  due  March  2009, its indenture for its $250 million 8 1/8%
Senior  Subordinated  Notes  due  January  2012, its indenture for its (pound) 1
million  8  1/2%  Series  B  Senior  Notes due November 2009 and its (pound) 154
million  8  1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009 restrict the payment of
cash  dividends.  During April 2002, the Company's Board of Directors approved a
two-for-one  split  of both the Company's Class A Stock and Class B Stock, which

                                       18
<PAGE>

was distributed in the form of a stock dividend on May 13, 2002, to stockholders
of  record  on  April  30,  2002.  All  share  and  per  share amounts have been
retroactively restated to give effect to the common stock split.


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
-------   -----------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    FOR THE YEARS ENDED
                                        ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                        FEBRUARY 28,    FEBRUARY 28,    FEBRUARY 29,    FEBRUARY 28,    FEBRUARY 28,
                                            2002            2001            2000            1999            1998
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
(in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                     <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
Gross sales                             $  3,633,958    $  3,154,294    $  3,088,699    $  1,984,801    $  1,632,357
Less-excise taxes                           (813,455)       (757,609)       (748,230)       (487,458)       (419,569)
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
  Net sales                                2,820,503       2,396,685       2,340,469       1,497,343       1,212,788
Cost of product sold                      (1,901,462)     (1,639,230)     (1,618,009)     (1,049,309)       (869,038)
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
  Gross profit                               919,041         757,455         722,460         448,034         343,750
Selling, general and
  administrative expenses                   (576,560)       (486,587)       (481,909)       (299,526)       (231,680)
Nonrecurring charges                            -               -             (5,510)         (2,616)           -
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
  Operating income                           342,481         270,868         235,041         145,892         112,070
Equity in earnings
  of joint venture                             1,667            -               -               -               -
Interest expense, net                       (114,189)       (108,631)       (106,082)        (41,462)        (32,189)
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
  Income before income taxes
    and extraordinary item                   229,959         162,237         128,959         104,430          79,881
Provision for income taxes                   (91,984)        (64,895)        (51,584)        (42,521)        (32,751)
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
  Income before
    extraordinary item                       137,975          97,342          77,375          61,909          47,130
Extraordinary item, net of
  income taxes                                (1,554)           -               -            (11,437)           -
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
Net income                              $    136,421    $     97,342    $     77,375    $     50,472    $     47,130
                                        ============    ============    ============    ============    ============

Earnings per common share:
  Basic:
    Income before
      extraordinary item                $       1.62    $       1.33    $       1.07    $       0.85    $       0.63
    Extraordinary item                         (0.02)           -               -              (0.16)           -
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
    Earnings per common
      share - basic                     $       1.60    $       1.33    $       1.07    $       0.69    $       0.63
                                        ============    ============    ============    ============    ============
  Diluted:
    Income before
      extraordinary item                $       1.57    $       1.30    $       1.05    $       0.82    $       0.62
    Extraordinary item                         (0.02)           -               -              (0.15)           -
                                        ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
    Earnings per common
      share - diluted                   $       1.55    $       1.30    $       1.05    $       0.67    $       0.62
                                        ============    ============    ============    ============    ============

Total assets                            $  3,069,385    $  2,512,169    $  2,348,791    $  1,793,776    $  1,090,555
                                        ============    ============    ============    ============    ============
Long-term debt                          $  1,293,183    $  1,307,437    $  1,237,135    $    831,689    $    309,218
                                        ============    ============    ============    ============    ============
</TABLE>

     For  the  fiscal  years ended February 28, 2002, and February 28, 2001, see
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition and Results of
Operations  under  Item  7  of  this  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K and Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements as of February 28, 2002, under Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     During April 2002,  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  approved a
two-for-one  stock  split of both the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B
Common Stock, which was distributed in the

                                       19
<PAGE>

form of a stock dividend on May 13, 2002, to stockholders of record on April 30,
2002.  All  share and per share amounts have been retroactively restated to give
effect to the common stock split.


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND
-------   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
          ---------------------

INTRODUCTION
------------

     The Company is a leader in the production and marketing of beverage alcohol
brands  in North America and the United Kingdom.  As the second largest supplier
of  wine,  the  second  largest marketer of  imported beer and the third largest
supplier of distilled spirits, the Company is the largest single-source supplier
of these products in the United States.  In the United Kingdom, the Company is a
leading  marketer of wine, the second largest producer and marketer of cider and
a leading independent drinks wholesaler.

     The  Company  reports  its  operating results in five segments: Popular and
Premium  Wine (branded popular and premium wine and brandy, and other, primarily
grape  juice  concentrate  and  bulk wine); Imported Beer and Spirits (primarily
imported  beer  and distilled spirits); U.K. Brands and Wholesale (branded wine,
cider, and bottled water, and wholesale wine, cider, distilled spirits, beer and
soft  drinks);  Fine  Wine  (primarily  branded  super-premium and ultra-premium
wine); and Corporate Operations and Other (primarily corporate related items).

     The  following  discussion  and analysis summarizes the significant factors
affecting  (i)  consolidated  results  of operations of the Company for the year
ended February 28, 2002 ("Fiscal 2002"), compared to the year ended February 28,
2001  ("Fiscal  2001"),  and Fiscal 2001 compared to the year ended February 29,
2000  ("Fiscal  2000"),  and  (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for
Fiscal  2002.  This  discussion  and analysis should be read in conjunction with
the  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes thereto included
herein.

COMMON STOCK SPLIT

     During  April  2002,  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the Company approved a
two-for-one  stock  split of both the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B
Common  Stock,  which was distributed in the form of a stock dividend on May 13,
2002,  to  stockholders  of  record  on  April 30, 2002. All share and per share
amounts  have  been  retroactively  restated  to give effect to the common stock
split.

ACQUISITIONS IN FISCAL 2002, FISCAL 2001 AND FISCAL 2000 AND JOINT VENTURE

     ACQUISITION OF RAVENSWOOD WINERY

     On  July 2, 2001, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
of Ravenswood Winery, Inc. ("Ravenswood"), a leading premium wine producer based
in Sonoma, California.  Ravenswood produces, markets and sells super-premium and
ultra-premium  California  wine  primarily under the Ravenswood brand name.  The
vast  majority  of the wine Ravenswood produces and sells is red wine, including
the  number  one  super-premium  Zinfandel in the United States.  The results of
operations  of  Ravenswood  are  reported in the Fine Wine segment and have been
included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company since the date
of acquisition.

                                       20
<PAGE>

     ACQUISITION OF THE CORUS ASSETS

     On  March  26,  2001, in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired certain
wine  brands,  wineries,  working  capital  (primarily  inventories),  and other
related  assets  from   Corus  Brands,  Inc.  (the  "Corus  Assets").   In  this
acquisition,  the  Company  acquired  several  well-known  premium  wine  brands
primarily sold in the northwestern United States, including Covey Run, Columbia,
Ste.  Chapelle  and Alice White. In connection with the transaction, the Company
also  entered  into  long-term  grape supply agreements with affiliates of Corus
Brands,  Inc.  covering more than 1,000 acres of Washington and Idaho vineyards.
The  results  of  operations of the Corus Assets are reported in the Popular and
Premium  Wine  segment  and  have  been  included in the consolidated results of
operations of the Company since the date of acquisition.

     ACQUISITION OF THE TURNER ROAD VINTNERS ASSETS

     On  March  5,  2001,  in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired several
well-known  premium  wine brands, including Vendange, Nathanson Creek, Heritage,
and  Talus, working capital (primarily inventories), two wineries in California,
and  other  related  assets  from  Sebastiani Vineyards, Inc. and Tuolomne River
Vintners  Group  (the "Turner Road Vintners Assets").  The results of operations
of  the Turner Road Vintners Assets are reported in the Popular and Premium Wine
segment  and have been included in the consolidated results of operations of the
Company  since  the  date  of  acquisition.  The  acquisition of the Turner Road
Vintners Assets is significant.

     ACQUISITION OF FORTH WINES

     On October 27, 2000, the Company acquired all of the issued Ordinary Shares
and  Preference  Shares  of Forth Wines Limited ("Forth Wines").  The results of
operations  of Forth Wines are reported in the U.K. Brands and Wholesale segment
and  have been included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company
since the date of acquisition.

     ACQUISITIONS OF FRANCISCAN ESTATES AND SIMI

     On June 4, 1999, the Company purchased all of the outstanding capital stock
of  Franciscan  Estates  and,  in  related  transactions,  purchased  vineyards,
equipment  and  other  vineyard  related  assets  located in Northern California
(collectively  the  "Franciscan Acquisition"). Also on June 4, 1999, the Company
purchased  all of the outstanding capital stock of Simi. (The acquisition of the
capital  stock  of Simi is hereafter referred to as the "Simi Acquisition".) The
Simi  Acquisition  included the Simi winery (located in Healdsburg, California),
equipment,  vineyards, inventory and worldwide ownership of the Simi brand name.
The  results  of   operations   from   the  Franciscan  and  Simi   Acquisitions
(collectively,  "Franciscan") are reported together in the Fine Wine segment and
have been included in the consolidated results of operation of the Company since
the  date  of acquisition. On February 29, 2000, Simi was merged into Franciscan
Estates.

     ACQUISITION OF THE BLACK VELVET ASSETS

     On  April  9,  1999,  in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired several
well-known Canadian whisky brands, including Black Velvet, production facilities
located  in  Alberta  and Quebec, Canada, case goods and bulk whisky inventories
and other related assets from affiliates of Diageo plc (collectively, the "Black
Velvet  Assets").  In  connection with the transaction, the Company also entered
into  multi-year  agreements  with affiliates of Diageo plc to provide packaging
and  distilling  services  for  various   brands  retained  by  the  Diageo  plc
affiliates.  The results of operations from the Black Velvet Assets are reported
in  the  Imported  Beer  and  Spirits  segment  and  have  been  included in the
consolidated results of operations of the Company since the date of acquisition.

                                       21
<PAGE>

     PACIFIC WINE PARTNERS

     On July 31, 2001, the Company and BRL Hardy Limited completed the formation
of  Pacific  Wine  Partners  LLC  ("PWP"),  a joint venture owned equally by the
Company and BRL Hardy Limited, the second largest wine company in Australia. PWP
produces,  markets  and  sells  a global portfolio of premium wine in the United
States,  including a range of Australian imports. PWP has exclusive distribution
rights in the United States and the Caribbean to seven brands - Banrock Station,
Hardys,  Leasingham,  Barossa Valley Estate and Chateau Reynella from Australia;
Nobilo  from  New Zealand; and La Baume from France. The joint venture also owns
Farallon,  a premium California coastal wine. In addition, PWP owns a winery and
controls 1,400 acres of vineyards, all located in Monterey County, California.

     On  October 16, 2001, the Company announced that PWP completed the purchase
of  certain  assets of Blackstone Winery, including the Blackstone brand and the
Codera wine business in Sonoma County.

     The  investment  in   PWP  is  accounted  for  using   the  equity  method;
accordingly,  the  results  of  operations of PWP since July 31, 2001, have been
included  in  the  equity  in earnings of joint venture line in the Consolidated
Statements of Income of the Company.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
---------------------

FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001

     NET SALES

     The  following  table sets forth the net sales (in thousands of dollars) by
operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2002 and Fiscal 2001.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001
                                     -------------------------------------
                                                   Net Sales
                                     -------------------------------------
                                                                %Increase
                                        2002          2001      (Decrease)
                                     -----------   -----------  ----------
<S>                                  <C>           <C>          <C>
Popular and Premium Wine:
  Branded:
    External customers               $   781,662   $   603,948      29.4 %
    Intersegment                           9,669         6,451      49.9 %
                                     -----------   -----------
    Total Branded                        791,331       610,399      29.6 %
                                     -----------   -----------
  Other:
    External customers                    57,718        64,799     (10.9)%
    Intersegment                          13,751        16,562     (17.0)%
                                     -----------   -----------
    Total Other                           71,469        81,361     (12.2)%
                                     -----------   -----------
Popular and Premium Wine net sales   $   862,800   $   691,760      24.7 %
                                     -----------   -----------
Imported Beer and Spirits:
  Beer                               $   758,800   $   659,371      15.1 %
  Spirits                                288,568       285,743       1.0 %
                                     -----------   -----------
Imported Beer and Spirits net sales  $ 1,047,368   $   945,114      10.8 %
                                     -----------   -----------
U.K. Brands and Wholesale:
  Branded:
    External customers               $   296,770   $   285,717       3.9 %
    Intersegment                             574         1,193     (51.9)%
                                     -----------   -----------
    Total Branded                        297,344       286,910       3.6 %
  Wholesale                              495,549       404,209      22.6 %
                                     -----------   -----------
U.K. Brands and Wholesale net sales  $   792,893   $   691,119      14.7 %
                                     -----------   -----------
                                       22
<PAGE>

                                      Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001
                                     -------------------------------------
                                                   Net Sales
                                     -------------------------------------
                                                                %Increase
                                        2002          2001      (Decrease)
                                     -----------   -----------  ----------
Fine Wine:
  External customers                 $   141,436   $    92,898      52.2 %
  Intersegment                               753           217     247.0 %
                                     -----------   -----------
Fine Wine net sales                  $   142,189   $    93,115      52.7 %
                                     -----------   -----------
Corporate Operations and Other       $      -      $      -          N/A
                                     -----------   -----------
Intersegment eliminations            $   (24,747)  $   (24,423)      1.3 %
                                     ------------  -----------
Consolidated Net Sales               $  2,820,503  $ 2,396,685      17.7 %
                                     ============  ===========
</TABLE>

     Net  sales  for  Fiscal  2002  increased  to $2,820.5 million from $2,396.7
million for Fiscal 2001, an increase of $423.8 million, or 17.7%.

     POPULAR AND PREMIUM WINE

     Net  sales  for  the  Popular  and  Premium  Wine  segment  for Fiscal 2002
increased  to $862.8 million from $691.8 million for Fiscal 2001, an increase of
$171.0  million,  or 24.7%. This increase resulted primarily from $188.1 million
of  sales  of the newly acquired brands from the Turner Road Vintners Assets and
Corus  Assets  acquisitions  (the "March Acquisitions"), both completed in March
2001.  This increase was partially offset by declines in the Popular and Premium
Wine segment's grape juice concentrate business and certain other wine brands.

     IMPORTED BEER AND SPIRITS

     Net  sales  for  the  Imported  Beer  and  Spirits  segment for Fiscal 2002
increased  to  $1,047.4 million from $945.1 million for Fiscal 2001, an increase
of  $102.3  million,  or  10.8%.  This  increase resulted primarily from a 15.1%
increase  in  imported  beer  sales,  led  by  volume growth in the Mexican beer
portfolio.  Spirits  sales increased slightly primarily from an increase in bulk
whiskey  sales,  partially  offset  by slightly lower branded spirits sales as a
result  of  lower  net  selling  prices from the implementation of a net pricing
strategy  in  the  third  quarter  of  Fiscal 2001, which also resulted in lower
promotion costs.

     U.K. BRANDS AND WHOLESALE

     Net  sales  for  the  U.K.  Brands  and  Wholesale  segment for Fiscal 2002
increased  to $792.9 million from $691.1 million for Fiscal 2001, an increase of
$101.8  million, or 14.7%. Excluding an adverse foreign currency impact of $28.9
million, net sales increased $130.7 million, or 18.9%. This local currency basis
increase  resulted  primarily from a 27.1% increase in wholesale sales, with the
majority  of  this growth coming from organic sales. Additionally, branded sales
increased  7.4%  with  an  increase  in  wine  sales being partially offset by a
decrease in cider sales.

     FINE WINE

     Net  sales  for  the  Fine Wine segment for Fiscal 2002 increased to $142.2
million  from  $93.1  million  for Fiscal 2001, an increase of $49.1 million, or
52.7%. This increase resulted primarily from $32.9 million of sales of the newly
acquired  brands  from  the  Ravenswood  acquisition  and  organic  sales growth
primarily  due  to  volume  increases in the Estancia, Veramonte, and Franciscan
brands.

                                       23
<PAGE>

     GROSS PROFIT

     The Company's gross profit increased to $919.0 million for Fiscal 2002 from
$757.5  million  for  Fiscal  2001, an increase of $161.6 million, or 21.3%. The
dollar  increase  in  gross  profit  resulted  primarily from sales of the newly
acquired  brands  from  the  March  Acquisitions and the Ravenswood acquisition,
volume growth in the Imported Beer and Spirits segment's Mexican beer portfolio,
volume  growth  in  the  Fine Wine segment's portfolio, and volume growth in the
U.K.  Brands  and  Wholesale  segment's wholesale business and branded business.
These  increases  were  partially  offset by a decrease in the Imported Beer and
Spirits  segment's  spirits  sales  and an adverse foreign currency impact. As a
percent of net sales, gross profit increased to 32.6% for Fiscal 2002 from 31.6%
for  Fiscal  2001,  resulting  primarily from sales of higher-margin wine brands
acquired in the March Acquisitions and the Ravenswood acquisition.

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

     Selling,  general  and  administrative expenses increased to $576.6 million
for  Fiscal  2002  from  $486.6  million  for  Fiscal 2001, an increase of $90.0
million,  or  18.5%.  The dollar increase in selling, general and administrative
expenses resulted primarily from an increase in advertising, promotion, selling,
and  general  and administrative expenses associated with the brands acquired in
the  March  Acquisitions and the Ravenswood acquisition. In addition, there were
increases  in  promotion  and  advertising expenses associated with the Imported
Beer and Spirits segment's Mexican beer portfolio volume growth, the U.K. Brands
and  Wholesale  segment's  branded  business  volume  growth,  and the Fine Wine
segment's  portfolio volume growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses
as  a percent of net sales remained virtually unchanged at 20.4% for Fiscal 2002
as compared to 20.3% for Fiscal 2001.

     OPERATING INCOME

     The  following  table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in thousands
of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2002 and Fiscal 2001.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001
                                    -----------------------------------
                                          Operating Income (Loss)
                                    -----------------------------------
                                                             % Increase
                                       2002        2001      (Decrease)
                                    ---------   ---------    ----------
<S>                                 <C>         <C>          <C>
Popular and Premium Wine            $ 104,781   $  50,390       107.9 %
Imported Beer and Spirits             178,805     167,680         6.6 %
U.K. Brands and Wholesale              47,270      48,961        (3.5)%
Fine Wine                              39,169      24,495        59.9 %
Corporate Operations and Other        (27,544)    (20,658)       33.3 %
                                    ---------   ---------
Consolidated Operating Income       $ 342,481   $ 270,868        26.4 %
                                    =========   =========
</TABLE>

     As  a  result  of  the  above factors, operating income increased to $342.5
million  for  Fiscal  2002  from  $270.9 million for Fiscal 2001, an increase of
$71.6 million, or 26.4%.

     INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

     Net  interest  expense  increased  to  $114.2  million for Fiscal 2002 from
$108.6  million  for  Fiscal  2001,  an  increase of $5.6 million, or 5.1%.  The
increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average borrowings primarily
due  to  the financing of the March Acquisitions and the Ravenswood acquisition,
partially offset by a decrease in the average interest rate.

                                       24
<PAGE>

     NET INCOME

     As  a  result  of the above factors, net income increased to $136.4 million
for  Fiscal  2002  from  $97.3  million  for  Fiscal  2001, an increase of $39.1
million, or 40.1%.

     For  financial  analysis  purposes  only,  the  Company's  earnings  before
interest,  taxes,  depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") for Fiscal 2002 were
$429.6  million,  an increase of $88.3 million over EBITDA of $341.3 million for
Fiscal  2001.  EBITDA  should  not  be  construed as an alternative to operating
income or net cash flow from operating activities and should not be construed as
an indication of operating performance or as a measure of liquidity.

FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000

     NET SALES

     The  following  table sets forth the net sales (in thousands of dollars) by
operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2001 and Fiscal 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       Fiscal 2001 Compared to Fiscal 2000
                                      --------------------------------------
                                                    Net Sales
                                      --------------------------------------
                                                                  %Increase
                                         2001          2000       (Decrease)
                                      -----------   -----------   ----------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>           <C>
Popular and Premium Wine:
  Branded:
    External customers                $   603,948   $   623,796       (3.2)%
    Intersegment                            6,451         5,524       16.8 %
                                      -----------   -----------
    Total Branded                         610,399       629,320       (3.0)%
                                      -----------   -----------
  Other:
    External customers                     64,799        86,814      (25.4)%
    Intersegment                           16,562         1,146     1345.2 %
                                      -----------   -----------
    Total Other                            81,361        87,960       (7.5)%
                                      -----------   -----------
Popular and Premium Wine net sales    $   691,760   $   717,280       (3.6)%
                                      -----------   -----------
Imported Beer and Spirits:
  Beer                                $   659,371   $   570,380       15.6 %
  Spirits                                 285,743       267,762        6.7 %
                                      -----------   -----------
Imported Beer and Spirits net sales   $   945,114   $   838,142       12.8 %
                                      -----------   -----------
U.K. Brands and Wholesale:
  Branded:
    External customers                $   285,717   $   313,027       (8.7)%
    Intersegment                            1,193            75     1490.7 %
                                      -----------   -----------
    Total Branded                         286,910       313,102       (8.4)%
  Wholesale                               404,209       416,644       (3.0)%
                                      -----------   -----------
U.K. Brands and Wholesale net sales   $   691,119   $   729,746       (5.3)%
                                      -----------   -----------
Fine Wine:
  External customers                  $    92,898   $    62,046       49.7 %
  Intersegment                                217            73      197.3 %
                                      -----------   -----------
Fine Wine net sales                   $    93,115   $    62,119       49.9 %
                                      -----------   -----------
Corporate Operations and Other        $      -      $      -           N/A
                                      -----------   -----------
Intersegment eliminations             $   (24,423)  $    (6,818)     258.2 %
                                      -----------   -----------
Consolidated Net Sales                $ 2,396,685   $ 2,340,469        2.4 %
                                      ===========   ===========
</TABLE>

     Net  sales  for  Fiscal  2001  increased  to $2,396.7 million from $2,340.5
million for Fiscal 2000, an increase of $56.2 million, or 2.4%.

                                       25
<PAGE>

     POPULAR AND PREMIUM WINE

     Net  sales  for  the  Popular  and  Premium  Wine  segment  for Fiscal 2001
decreased  to  $691.8 million from $717.3 million for Fiscal 2000, a decrease of
$25.5  million,  or  (3.6)%.  The  decline resulted primarily from a decrease in
table  wine  sales,  a  decrease  in  sparkling wine sales as third quarter 2000
included  the  impact  of  sales  associated  with  Millennium activities, and a
decrease in grape juice concentrate sales. These decreases were partially offset
by increases in sales of Paul Masson Grande Amber and Arbor Mist.

     IMPORTED BEER AND SPIRITS

     Net  sales  for  the  Imported  Beer  and  Spirits  segment for Fiscal 2001
increased  to $945.1 million from $838.1 million for Fiscal 2000, an increase of
$107.0  million,  or  12.8%. This increase resulted primarily from volume growth
and  selling  price  increases  in  the  Mexican  beer  portfolio, selling price
increases  on tequila products and the inclusion of $11.3 million of incremental
net  sales  during  the  first  quarter  of Fiscal 2001 from the Canadian whisky
brands  acquired  as  part  of  the  Black  Velvet Assets acquisition, which was
completed in April 1999.

     U.K. BRANDS AND WHOLESALE

     Net  sales  for  the  U.K.  Brands  and  Wholesale  segment for Fiscal 2001
decreased  to  $691.1 million from $729.7 million for Fiscal 2000, a decrease of
$38.6  million,  or  (5.3)%.  This  decrease  resulted primarily from an adverse
foreign  currency  impact of $58.8 million. On a local currency basis, net sales
increased  2.8% primarily due to an increase in wholesale sales, including sales
from  the  recent  Forth  Wines  acquisition,  an increase in branded table wine
sales,  and  an increase in packaged cider sales. These increases were partially
offset by decreases in private label cider and draft cider sales.

     FINE WINE

     Net  sales  for  the  Fine  Wine segment for Fiscal 2001 increased to $93.1
million  from  $62.1  million  for Fiscal 2000, an increase of $31.0 million, or
49.9%.  As  the  acquisition  of  Franciscan  was  completed  in June 1999, this
increase  resulted  primarily  from  the inclusion of $21.9 million of net sales
from  the  first  quarter  of  Fiscal  2001  and  from  selling  price increases
instituted during the second quarter of Fiscal 2001.

     GROSS PROFIT

     The Company's gross profit increased to $757.5 million for Fiscal 2001 from
$722.5  million  for  Fiscal  2000,  an  increase of $35.0 million, or 4.8%. The
dollar  increase  in  gross  profit  was  primarily related to volume growth and
selling   price  increases  in  the  Company's  Mexican  beer  portfolio,  sales
attributable  to the acquisitions of Franciscan (completed in June 1999) and the
Black  Velvet  Assets  (completed in April 1999), and increases in the Fine Wine
segment's  selling  prices.  These increases were partially offset by an adverse
foreign  currency  impact.  As a percent of net sales, gross profit increased to
31.6% for Fiscal 2001 from 30.9% for Fiscal 2000, resulting primarily from sales
of  higher-margin  distilled  spirits  and  super-premium and ultra-premium wine
acquired  in  the  acquisitions  of  the  Black  Velvet  Assets  and Franciscan,
respectively,  and  from improved margins resulting from selling price increases
in  the Company's imported beer business and the Fine Wine segment portfolio, as
well  as  cost improvements in the U.K. Brands and Wholesale segment's cider and
wholesale businesses.

                                       26
<PAGE>

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

     Selling,  general  and  administrative expenses increased to $486.6 million
for  Fiscal  2001  from  $481.9  million  for  Fiscal  2000, an increase of $4.7
million,  or  1.0%.  The  dollar increase in selling, general and administrative
expenses  resulted  primarily  from  an  increase  in  selling  expenses  in all
operating  segments,  the  inclusion  of  the  Franciscan  business and expenses
related to the brands acquired in the Black Velvet Assets acquisition for a full
year  in Fiscal 2001, and an increase in expenses in Corporate Operations. These
increases  were  partially  offset  by  a  decrease in advertising and promotion
expenses,  primarily  in  the  Popular and Premium Wine segment, and a favorable
foreign  currency  impact.  Selling,  general  and  administrative expenses as a
percent of net sales decreased to 20.3% for Fiscal 2001 as compared to 20.6% for
Fiscal  2000  as  the  percent increase in net sales for Fiscal 2001 was greater
than  the  percent  increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for
Fiscal 2001.

     NONRECURRING CHARGES

     The  Company  incurred  nonrecurring charges of $5.5 million in Fiscal 2000
related to the closure of a cider production facility within the U.K. Brands and
Wholesale  operating  segment  in  the  United  Kingdom  ($2.9 million) and to a
management  reorganization within the Popular and Premium Wine operating segment
($2.6 million).  No such charges were incurred in Fiscal 2001.

     OPERATING INCOME

     The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in thousands of
dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2001 and Fiscal 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Fiscal 2001 Compared to Fiscal 2000
                                   -----------------------------------
                                         Operating Income (Loss)
                                   -----------------------------------
                                      2001         2000     % Increase
                                   ----------   ----------  ----------
<S>                                <C>          <C>         <C>
Popular and Premium Wine           $   50,390   $   47,305       6.5 %
Imported Beer and Spirits             167,680      142,931      17.3 %
U.K. Brands and Wholesale              48,961       48,473       1.0 %
Fine Wine                              24,495       12,708      92.8 %
Corporate Operations and Other        (20,658)     (16,376)     26.1 %
                                   ----------   ----------
Consolidated Operating Income      $  270,868   $  235,041      15.2 %
                                   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

     As  a  result  of  the  above factors, operating income increased to $270.9
million  for  Fiscal  2001  from  $235.0 million for Fiscal 2000, an increase of
$35.8  million,  or  15.2%.  Exclusive  of  the  aforementioned  $2.6 million in
nonrecurring  charges,  operating  income  for  the  Popular  and  Premium  Wine
operating  segment  increased  1.0%  in Fiscal 2001 from $49.9 million in Fiscal
2000.  Operating  income  for  the  U.K. Brands and Wholesale operating segment,
excluding  the  aforementioned  nonrecurring  charges of $2.9 million, decreased
4.8% in Fiscal 2001 from $51.4 million in Fiscal 2000.

     INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

     Net  interest  expense  increased  to  $108.6  million for Fiscal 2001 from
$106.1  million  for  Fiscal  2000,  an  increase of $2.5 million, or 2.4%.  The
increase  resulted primarily from an increase in the average interest rate which
was partially offset by a decrease in average borrowings.

     NET INCOME

     As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $97.3 million for
Fiscal 2001 from $77.4 million for Fiscal 2000, an increase of $20.0 million, or
25.8%.

                                       27
<PAGE>

     For  financial  analysis  purposes  only,  the  Company's  earnings  before
interest,  taxes,  depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") for Fiscal 2001 were
$341.3  million,  an increase of $41.5 million over EBITDA of $299.8 million for
Fiscal  2000.  EBITDA  should  not  be  construed as an alternative to operating
income or net cash flow from operating activities and should not be construed as
an indication of operating performance or as a measure of liquidity.


FINANCIAL LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
-----------------------------------------

GENERAL

     The  Company's  principal  use  of  cash in its operating activities is for
purchasing  and carrying inventories.  The Company's primary source of liquidity
has  historically  been cash flow from operations, except during the annual fall
grape harvests when the Company has relied on short-term borrowings.  The annual
grape  crush  normally  begins  in August and runs through October.  The Company
generally  begins  purchasing  grapes  in  August  with payments for such grapes
beginning  to  come  due  in  September.  The Company's short-term borrowings to
support  such  purchases  generally  reach  their  highest levels in November or
December.   Historically,  the  Company  has  used   cash  flow  from  operating
activities to repay its short-term borrowings.  The Company will continue to use
its  short-term  borrowings  to  support  its working capital requirements.  The
Company  believes  that  cash provided by operating activities and its financing
activities,  primarily short-term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to
satisfy  its  working  capital,  liquidity  and  anticipated capital expenditure
requirements for both its short-term and long-term capital needs.

FISCAL 2002 CASH FLOWS

     OPERATING ACTIVITIES

     Net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  for  Fiscal 2002 was $213.3
million,  which  resulted from $226.3 million in net income adjusted for noncash
items, less $13.0 million representing the net change in the Company's operating
assets  and  liabilities.  The  net  change  in operating assets and liabilities
resulted  primarily  from  increases  in  accounts  receivable  and  inventories
partially  offset  by  increases  in accounts payable, deferred revenue, accrued
salaries and commissions, and accrued advertising and promotions.

     INVESTING ACTIVITIES AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES

     Net  cash  used in investing activities for Fiscal 2002 was $585.4 million,
which  resulted  from net cash paid of $472.8 million for the March Acquisitions
and the Ravenswood acquisition, $77.3 million of equity contributions to PWP and
$71.1  million  of capital expenditures (including $10.1 million for vineyards),
partially  offset  by  $35.8  million  of  proceeds  from  the  sale  of assets.

     Net  cash  provided  by  financing  activities  for  Fiscal 2002 was $236.9
million,  which  resulted  primarily  from  proceeds  of $252.5 million from the
issuance  of  long-term  debt,  including  $250.0  million  of  8  1/8%   Senior
Subordinated  Notes  used  to repay $130.0 million of 8 3/4% Senior Subordinated
Notes  and  $65.0  million  of  8  3/4% Series C Senior Subordinated Notes and a
portion  of  the  Company's  borrowings  under  its  senior credit facility, net
proceeds of $151.5 million from equity offerings, proceeds of $51.4 million from
net  revolving loan borrowings under the senior credit facility, and proceeds of
$45.0  million  from  exercise  of  employee  stock options.  These amounts were
partially  offset  by  principal  payments  of long-term debt of $261.0 million,
which  included the repayments as discussed above and $54.7 million of scheduled
or required principal payments under the Company's senior credit facility.

                                       28
<PAGE>

     During  June  1998,  the  Company's  Board  of  Directors  authorized   the
repurchase  of  up  to  $100.0  million  of its Class A Common Stock and Class B
Common  Stock.  The  repurchase  of shares of common stock will be accomplished,
from  time  to  time,  in  management's  discretion  and  depending  upon market
conditions,  through  open  market  or  privately  negotiated  transactions. The
Company  may  finance such repurchases through cash generated from operations or
through  the senior credit facility. The repurchased shares will become treasury
shares.  As of May 15, 2002, the Company had purchased 4,075,344 shares of Class
A  Common  Stock at an aggregate cost of $44.9 million, or at an average cost of
$11.01 per share. No shares were repurchased during Fiscal 2002, Fiscal 2001 and
Fiscal 2000.

DEBT

     Total  debt  outstanding  as  of  February  28,  2002, amounted to $1,429.6
million,  an  increase  of  $63.8  million from February 28, 2001.  The ratio of
total  debt  to total capitalization decreased to 59.9% as of February 28, 2002,
from 68.9% as of February 28, 2001.

     SENIOR CREDIT FACILITY

     As  of  February  28,  2002,  under  the  2000 Credit Agreement (as defined
below),  the  Company  had  outstanding  term  loans of $281.3 million bearing a
weighted  average  interest rate of 3.9%, $50.0 million of outstanding revolving
loans  bearing  a  weighted  average  interest  rate of 3.1%, undrawn letters of
credit  of  $13.2 million, and $236.8 million in revolving loans available to be
drawn.

     During  June  1999,  the  Company  financed  the  purchase  price  for  the
Franciscan  Acquisition  primarily through additional term loan borrowings under
its  previous  senior  credit facility.  The Company financed the purchase price
for  the  Simi  Acquisition with revolving loan borrowings under the same senior
credit  facility.  During  August  1999,  as  discussed  below, a portion of the
Company's  borrowings under that senior credit facility were repaid with the net
proceeds of its Senior Notes (as defined below) offering.

     On  October  6,  1999,  the  Company,  certain  of  its principal operating
subsidiaries,  and  a  syndicate of banks (the "Syndicate Banks"), for which The
Chase  Manhattan Bank acts as administrative agent, entered into a senior credit
facility  (as  subsequently  amended,  the  "2000  Credit Agreement").  The 2000
Credit  Agreement  includes  both   U.S.  dollar  and   British  pound  sterling
commitments of the Syndicate Banks of up to, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
$1.0  billion  (subject  to  increase  as  therein  provided  to  $1.2 billion).
Proceeds  of  the  2000  Credit  Agreement  were  used  to repay all outstanding
principal  and  accrued  interest  on all loans under the Company's prior senior
credit  facility,  and  are available to fund permitted acquisitions and ongoing
working capital needs of the Company and its subsidiaries.

     The 2000 Credit Agreement provides for a $380.0 million Tranche I Term Loan
facility  due  in  December 2004, a $320.0 million Tranche II Term Loan facility
available  for  borrowing  in British pound sterling due in December 2004, and a
$300.0  million  Revolving  Credit facility (including letters of credit up to a
maximum  of  $20.0  million)  which expires in December 2004. The Tranche I Term
Loan  facility  ($380.0  million) and the Tranche II Term Loan facility ((pound)
193.4  million,  or  $320.0  million) were fully drawn at closing. During Fiscal
2001, the Company used proceeds from operating activities to prepay a portion of
the $380.0 million Tranche I Term Loan facility. During Fiscal 2002, the Company
used  proceeds  from  the sale of 645,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common
Stock (see Note 11) to pay an additional portion of the $380.0 million Tranche I
Term Loan facility. After these repayments, the required quarterly repayments of
the  Tranche I Term Loan facility were revised to $17.4 million for each quarter
in  2002,  $19.6  million  for  each quarter in 2003, and $20.0 million for each
quarter  in  2004. On November 17, 1999, proceeds from the Sterling Senior Notes
(as defined below) were used to repay a portion of the $320.0 million Tranche II
Term  Loan  facility ((pound) 73.0 million, or $118.3 million). On May 15, 2000,
proceeds from the Sterling Series C Senior Notes (as defined below) were used to
repay an

                                       29
<PAGE>

additional  portion of the $320.0 million Tranche II Term Loan facility ((pound)
78.8 million, or $118.2 million). After these repayments, the required quarterly
repayments  of  the  Tranche  II  Term Loan facility were revised to (pound) 0.4
million  ($0.6  million)  for each quarter in 2001 and 2002, (pound) 0.5 million
($0.7 million) for each quarter in 2003, and (pound) 8.5 million ($12.0 million)
for  each  quarter  in  2004  (the  foregoing  U.S. dollar equivalents are as of
February 28, 2002). There are certain mandatory term loan prepayments, including
those  based  on  sale  of  assets and issuance of debt and equity, in each case
subject to customary baskets, exceptions and thresholds.

     The rate of interest payable, at the Company's option, is a function of the
London  interbank offering rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin, federal funds rate plus
a  margin, or the prime rate plus a margin.  The margin is adjustable based upon
the  Company's  Debt  Ratio  (as defined in the 2000 Credit Agreement) and, with
respect to LIBOR borrowings, ranges between 0.75% and 1.25% for Revolving Credit
loans  and  1.00% and 1.75% for Term Loans.  As of February 28, 2002, the margin
was 1.125% for Revolving Credit loans and 1.625% for Term Loans.  In addition to
interest, the Company pays a facility fee on the Revolving Credit commitments at
0.50%  per  annum as of February 28, 2002.  This fee is based upon the Company's
quarterly Debt Ratio and can range from 0.25% to 0.50%.

     Certain  of  the Company's principal operating subsidiaries have guaranteed
the  Company's  obligations  under  the  2000 Credit Agreement.  The 2000 Credit
Agreement  is secured by (i) first priority pledges of 100% of the capital stock
of  Canandaigua Limited and all of the Company's domestic operating subsidiaries
and (ii) first priority pledges of 65% of the capital stock of Matthew Clark and
certain other foreign subsidiaries.

     The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to customary lending covenants
including those restricting additional liens, incurring additional indebtedness,
the  sale  of assets, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates and
the  making  of  certain investments, in each case subject to customary baskets,
exceptions  and  thresholds.   The  primary  financial  covenants   require  the
maintenance  of  a  debt  coverage  ratio, a senior debt coverage ratio, a fixed
charges  ratio  and  an  interest  coverage  ratio.  Among  the most restrictive
covenants contained in the 2000 Credit Agreement is the debt coverage ratio.

     On February 13, 2001, the 2000 Credit Agreement was amended to, among other
things,  permit  the  Company  to  finance  the  acquisition  of the Turner Road
Vintners  Assets  with  revolving loan borrowings, permit the refinancing of the
Original  Notes  (as  defined  below) and Series C Notes (as defined below) with
senior notes, and adjust the senior debt coverage ratio covenant.

     SENIOR NOTES

     On  August  4,  1999, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of 8 5/8% Senior Notes due August 2006 (the "August 1999 Senior Notes").
The  net  proceeds of the offering ($196.0 million) were used to repay a portion
of  the  Company's borrowings under its senior credit facility.  Interest on the
August  1999  Senior Notes is payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 of
each  year,  beginning  February  1,  2000.  The  August  1999  Senior Notes are
redeemable  at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time.  The
August  1999  Senior  Notes are unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in
right of payment to all existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness of the
Company.  The  August  1999  Senior  Notes are guaranteed, on a senior basis, by
certain of the Company's significant operating subsidiaries.

     On  November  17,  1999,  the  Company  issued (pound) 75.0 million ($121.7
million  upon  issuance)  aggregate  principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Notes due
November  2009  (the  "Sterling Senior Notes"). The net proceeds of the offering
((pound)  73.0  million,  or $118.3 million) were used to repay a portion of the
Company's  British  pound  sterling borrowings under its senior credit facility.
Interest  on  the  Sterling  Senior  Notes is payable semiannually on May 15 and
November 15 of each year, beginning on May 15,

                                       30
<PAGE>

2000.  The Sterling Senior Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in
whole  or  in  part, at any time. The Sterling Senior Notes are unsecured senior
obligations  and  rank  equally  in  right of payment to all existing and future
unsecured  senior  indebtedness  of  the  Company. The Sterling Senior Notes are
guaranteed, on a senior basis, by certain of the Company's significant operating
subsidiaries.  In  March  2000,  the  Company  exchanged  (pound)  75.0  million
aggregate  principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due in November 2009
(the "Sterling Series B Senior Notes") for all of the Sterling Senior Notes. The
terms  of  the  Sterling  Series  B  Senior  Notes are identical in all material
respects  to  the  Sterling Senior Notes. In October 2000, the Company exchanged
(pound)  74.0  million  aggregate  principal  amount of Sterling Series C Senior
Notes  (as  defined  below)  for  (pound)  74.0 million of the Sterling Series B
Notes.  The  terms  of  the  Sterling Series C Senior Notes are identical in all
material  respects  to  the  Sterling  Series B Senior Notes. As of February 28,
2002,  the  Company had outstanding (pound) 1.0 million ($1.4 million) aggregate
principal amount of Sterling Series B Senior Notes.

     On  May  15,  2000, the Company issued (pound) 80.0 million ($120.0 million
upon  issuance)  aggregate  principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due
November  2009 at an issuance price of (pound) 79.6 million ($119.4 million upon
issuance,  net  of $0.6 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest
rate  of  8.6%)  (the "Sterling Series C Senior Notes"). The net proceeds of the
offering  ((pound) 78.8 million, or $118.2 million) were used to repay a portion
of  the  Company's  British  pound  sterling  borrowings under its senior credit
facility. Interest on the Sterling Series C Senior Notes is payable semiannually
on  May  15  and  November  15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 2000. The
Sterling  Series  C Senior Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in
whole  or in part, at any time. The Sterling Series C Senior Notes are unsecured
senior  obligations  and  rank  equally  in right of payment to all existing and
future  unsecured  senior  indebtedness  of  the  Company. The Sterling Series C
Senior  Notes  are  guaranteed,  on  a senior basis, by certain of the Company's
significant  operating  subsidiaries.  As  of February 28, 2002, the Company had
outstanding  (pound)  154.0  million   ($218.3  million,  net  of  $0.5  million
unamortized  discount)  aggregate  principal  amount of Sterling Series C Senior
Notes.

     On February 21, 2001, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the "February 2001 Senior Notes").
The  net  proceeds  of the offering ($197.0 million) were used to partially fund
the  acquisition  of  the  Turner Road Vintners Assets. Interest on the February
2001  Senior  Notes is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each
year,  beginning  August 15, 2001. The February 2001 Senior Notes are redeemable
at  the  option  of  the Company, in whole or in part, at any time. The February
2001  Senior Notes are unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of
payment to all existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness of the Company.
The  February 2001 Senior Notes are guaranteed, on a senior basis, by certain of
the  Company's  significant  operating  subsidiaries.  In July 2001, the Company
exchanged  $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Series B Senior Notes
due  February  2008  (the  "February 2001 Series B Senior Notes") for all of the
February 2001 Senior Notes. The terms of the February 2001 Series B Senior Notes
are identical in all material respects to the February 2001 Senior Notes.

     SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES

     On December 27, 1993, the Company issued $130.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of  8 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due in December 2003 (the "Original
Notes").  On  October  29,  1996,  the  Company  issued  $65.0 million aggregate
principal  amount  of  8 3/4% Series B Senior Subordinated Notes due in December
2003,  which  in  February  1997  were  exchanged  for  $65.0  million aggregate
principal  amount  of  8 3/4% Series C Senior Subordinated Notes due in December
2003  (the  "Series  C  Notes").  In  February  2002,  the  Company redeemed the
Original  Notes  and  the Series C Notes with the proceeds from the January 2002
Senior  Subordinated  Notes   (as  defined  below).   In  connection  with  this
redemption,  the  Company  incurred  an extraordinary loss of $2.6 million ($1.6
million, net of income taxes) related to the write-off of the remaining deferred
financing costs and unamortized discount.

                                       31
<PAGE>

     On  March  4,  1999,  the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due March 2009 ("Senior Subordinated
Notes"). The net proceeds of the offering ($195.0 million) were used to fund the
acquisition  of the Black Velvet Assets and to pay the fees and expenses related
thereto  with  the  remainder  of  the  net  proceeds used for general corporate
purposes.  Interest  on the Senior Subordinated Notes is payable semiannually on
March  1  and  September 1 of each year, beginning September 1, 1999. The Senior
Subordinated  Notes  are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part,  at  any time on or after March 1, 2004. The Senior Subordinated Notes are
unsecured  and  subordinated  to  the  prior  payment  in  full  of  all  senior
indebtedness  of  the  Company,  which  includes the senior credit facility. The
Senior  Subordinated  Notes  are  guaranteed, on a senior subordinated basis, by
certain of the Company's significant operating subsidiaries.

     On  January 23, 2002, the Company issued $250.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of  8  1/8%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes due January 2012 ("January 2002
Senior  Subordinated Notes").  The net proceeds of the offering ($247.2 million)
were  used  to  repay  the  Original Notes and the Series C Notes and to repay a
portion  of  the  outstanding  indebtedness  under  the  Company's senior credit
facility.  Interest  on  the  January  2002 Senior Subordinated Notes is payable
semiannually  on  January  15 and July 15 of each year, beginning July 15, 2002.
The  January  2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are redeemable at the option of the
Company,  in  whole  or  in part, at any time on or after January 15, 2007.  The
Company  may also redeem up to 35% of the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes
using  the  proceeds  of  certain  equity offerings completed before January 15,
2005.  The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are unsecured and subordinated
to  the  prior  payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which
includes the senior credit facility.  The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes
are  guaranteed,  on  a  senior  subordinated basis, by certain of the Company's
significant operating subsidiaries.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS

     The  table  below  sets  forth  information  about  the Company's long-term
contractual obligations and other commercial commitments outstanding at February
28,  2002.  It  brings  together  data  for easy reference from the consolidated
balance  sheet and from individual notes to the Company's consolidated financial
statements.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD
                            -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Less than                                      After
                               Total         1 year        1-3 years      4-5 years       5 years
                            -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
(in thousands)
<S>                         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Contractual obligations
-----------------------
Notes payable               $    54,775    $    54,775    $      -       $      -       $      -
Long-term debt (excluding
  unamortized discount)       1,357,015         77,929        209,390        200,000        869,696
Capital lease obligations        18,269          3,680          7,165          4,566          2,858
Operating leases                185,079         20,463         34,154         30,425        100,037
Unconditional purchase
  obligations                   829,461        230,277        308,814        157,793        132,577
                            -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
    Total contractual cash
      obligations           $ 2,444,599    $   387,124    $   559,523    $   392,784    $ 1,105,168
                            ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========

                                       32
<PAGE>

                                           AMOUNT OF COMMITMENT EXPIRATION PER PERIOD
                            -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Less than                                     After
                               Total          1 year       1-3 years      4-5 years       5 years
                            -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
(in thousands)
Other contractual
  commitments
-----------------
Lines of credit             $   236,838    $      -       $   236,838    $      -       $     -
Standby letters of credit        13,162           -            13,162           -             -
                            -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
    Total commercial
      commitments           $   250,000    $      -       $   250,000    $      -       $     -
                            ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========
</TABLE>

EQUITY OFFERINGS

     During  March  2001,  the  Company completed a public offering of 8,740,000
shares  of  its  Class  A  Common  Stock, which was held as treasury stock. This
resulted  in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts
and  expenses,  of $139.4 million. The net proceeds were used to repay revolving
loan borrowings under the senior credit facility of which a portion was incurred
to partially finance the acquisition of the Turner Road Vintners Assets.

     During  October 2001, the Company sold 645,000 shares of its Class A Common
Stock, which was held as treasury stock, in connection with a public offering of
Class  A  Common  Stock  by stockholders of the Company. The net proceeds to the
Company,  after  deducting underwriting discounts, of $12.1 million were used to
repay borrowings under the senior credit facility.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

     During  Fiscal  2002,  the  Company  incurred  $71.1  million  for  capital
expenditures, including $10.1 million related to vineyards. The Company plans to
spend  $69.0 million for capital expenditures, exclusive of vineyards, in fiscal
2003.  In  addition,  the  Company continues to consider the purchase, lease and
development  of vineyards and may incur additional expenditures for vineyards if
opportunities  become available. See "Business - Sources and Availability of Raw
Materials"  under  Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management reviews
the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet
current business needs.

RELATED PARTIES

     Agustin  Francisco  Huneeus,  the  executive  in  charge  of  the Fine Wine
segment,  along  with  other  members  of  his immediate family, through various
family  owned entities (the "Huneeus Interests") engaged in certain transactions
with  the  Fine  Wine segment during each of the three years in the period ended
February  28,  2002.  The  Huneeus Interests engage the Fine Wine segment as the
exclusive  distributor  of  its Quintessa wines under a long-term contract; sell
grapes  to  the  Fine  Wine  segment  pursuant  to existing long-term contracts;
participate  as  partners  with  the  Fine  Wine  segment  in  the ownership and
operation  of  a  winery and vineyards in Chile; and render brand management and
other  consulting and advisory services in the United States and internationally
to  the  Fine  Wine  segment  and  the  Company.  Total  payments to the Huneeus
Interests  pursuant to these transactions and arrangements totaled $4.8 million,
$5.0  million,  and $3.2 million for the years ended February 28, 2002, February
28,  2001,  and  February  29,  2000,  respectively.  In addition, the Fine Wine
segment  performs  certain  wine  processing services for the Huneeus Interests.
Total  fees  received  from  the  Huneeus Interests to the Fine Wine segment for
these  services  totaled  $0.4  million,  $0.6 million, and $0.6 million for the
years  ended  February  28,  2002,  February  28,  2001,  and February 29, 2000,
respectively.  As of February 28, 2002 and 2001, the net amounts due to/from the
Huneeus Interests under these agreements are insignificant.

                                       33
<PAGE>

EFFECTS OF INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES

     The  Company's  results of operations and financial condition have not been
significantly affected by inflation and changing prices, including rising energy
and  tequila  costs.  The  Company  has been able, subject to normal competitive
conditions,  to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices.  There
can be no assurances, however, that the Company will continue to be able to pass
along rising costs through increased selling prices.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     The  Company's  significant accounting policies are more fully described in
Note  1  to the Company's consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of
this  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K. However, certain of the Company's accounting
policies  are particularly important to the portrayal of the Company's financial
position  and  results  of operations and require the application of significant
judgment  by  the  Company's  management;  as  a  result  they are subject to an
inherent  degree  of  uncertainty.  In  applying  those  policies, the Company's
management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used
in  the  determination  of  certain  estimates. Those estimates are based on the
Company's  historical  experience,  terms  of  existing contracts, the Company's
observance  of  trends  in  the  industry, information provided by the Company's
customers  and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate.
The  Company's  critical  accounting  policies  include:

     -  Inventory  valuation.  Inventories  are  stated  at the lower of cost or
        market,  cost  being  determined  on  the  first-in,  first-out  method.
        Reserves  for slow moving and obsolete inventories are provided based on
        historical  experience and current product demand. The Company evaluates
        the adequacy of these reserves quarterly.

     -  Accounting  for  acquisitions.  Acquisition  activities are an important
        element  of  the Company's business strategy. The Company's acquisitions
        typically  result  in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect
        the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment
        charges that  may  be  incurred.  The determination of the fair value of
        such intangible assets and other assets acquired and liabilities assumed
        requires the Company's management to make estimates and assumptions that
        affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     -  Impairment of long-lived assets. The Company's long-lived assets include
        goodwill,  trademarks  and  other  intangible  assets.  In assessing the
        recoverability  of  the  Company's  goodwill  and other intangibles, the
        Company  must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and
        other  factors  to determine the fair value of the respective assets. If
        these  estimates  or their related assumptions change in the future, the
        Company may  be  required to record impairment charges for these assets.
        On March 1, 2002, the Company adopted  SFAS No. 142 (as  defined  below)
        and  will  be  required  to  analyze  its goodwill and other  intangible
        assets with indefinite lives for impairment issues during the first  six
        months of  fiscal 2003  and  then on  a  periodic basis thereafter.  The
        Company  currently  expects  to  complete  the initial impairment review
        during the first quarter of fiscal 2003.  The Company does not expect to
        record  an  impairment charge upon  completion  of  the  initial review.
        However,  there can  be  no assurance that  at the  time  the  review is
        completed  a  material  impairment  charge  will  not  be recorded.  Any
        resulting impairment charge could  have a material adverse impact on the
        Company's financial condition and results of operations.

                                       34
<PAGE>

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     During  2000  and  2001,  the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") addressed
various  issues  related  to  the  income  statement  classification  of certain
promotional  payments,  including  EITF  Issue  No.  00-14  ("EITF  No. 00-14"),
"Accounting  for  Certain  Sales  Incentives,"  EITF  Issue No. 00-22 ("EITF No.
00-22"),  "Accounting  for 'Points' and Certain Other Time-Based or Volume-Based
Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to Be Delivered
in  the  Future,"  and  EITF  Issue No. 00-25 ("EITF No. 00-25"), "Vendor Income
Statement  Characterization  of Consideration Paid to a Reseller of the Vendor's
Products."  In  November 2001, the EITF codified EITF No. 00-14, EITF No. 00-22,
and  EITF  No.  00-25  as  part  of  EITF  Issue  No.  01-09 ("EITF No. 01-09"),
"Accounting  for  Consideration  Given  by  a  Vendor to a Customer (Including a
Reseller  of the Vendor's Products)."  EITF No. 01-09 addresses the recognition,
measurement  and  income  statement  classification  of consideration given by a
vendor  to a customer (including both a reseller of the vendor's products and an
entity  that  purchases the vendor's products from a reseller).  EITF No. 01-09,
among  other  things, requires that certain consideration given by a vendor to a
customer  be  characterized  as  a  reduction  of revenue when recognized in the
vendor's income statement.  The Company currently reports such costs referred to
in  EITF  No.  00-14  and  EITF No. 00-25 as selling, general and administrative
expenses.  The  Company  is  required  to  adopt EITF No. 01-09 in its financial
statements  beginning March 1, 2002.  Upon adoption of EITF No. 01-09, financial
statements  for  prior  periods  presented  for  comparative  purposes  will  be
reclassified  to comply with the requirements of EITF No. 01-09.  For the fiscal
years  ended  February  28,  2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000, net
sales  will  be  reduced  by $222.4 million, $176.2 million, and $182.5 million,
respectively, cost of product sold will increase by $10.1 million, $7.8 million,
and $8.8 million, respectively, and selling, general and administrative expenses
will  decrease  by  $232.5   million,  $184.0   million,  and  $191.3   million,
respectively.  This  reclassification  will  not  effect operating income or net
income.

     In  July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  141   ("SFAS   No.  141"),   "Business
Combinations."  SFAS  No.  141  addresses financial accounting and reporting for
business  combinations  requiring  all business combinations to be accounted for
using  one  method,  the  purchase  method. In addition, SFAS No. 141 supersedes
Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 16, "Business Combinations." SFAS No.
141  is effective immediately for all business combinations initiated after June
30, 2001, as well as for all business combinations accounted for by the purchase
method  for which the date of acquisition is July 1, 2001, or later. The Company
is  required  to  adopt SFAS No. 141 for all business combinations for which the
acquisition  date  was  before July 1, 2001, for fiscal years beginning March 1,
2002.  The  adoption  of the applicable provisions of SFAS No. 141 has not had a
material impact on the Company's financial statements. The Company believes that
the  adoption  of  the  remaining  provisions  of  SFAS  No. 141 will not have a
material  impact  on  its  financial  statements.  On March 1, 2002, the Company
reclassified  $59.9 million of previously identified separable intangible assets
into  goodwill  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  SFAS  No.  141.

     In  July  2001,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  also  issued
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS No. 142"), "Goodwill
and  Other  Intangible  Assets." SFAS No. 142 addresses financial accounting and
reporting  for  acquired  goodwill  and  other  intangible assets and supersedes
Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 17, "Intangible Assets." Under SFAS No.
142, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized but
are  reviewed at least annually for impairment. Separable intangible assets that
are  not  deemed  to  have an indefinite life will continue to be amortized over
their  useful lives. The Company is required to apply the provisions of SFAS No.
142  for  all goodwill and intangible assets acquired prior to July 1, 2001, for
fiscal  years  beginning  March  1,  2002.  For  goodwill  and intangible assets
acquired  after  June  30,  2001,  these  assets  are subject immediately to the
nonamortization  and  amortization  provisions  of  SFAS  No. 142. The Company's

                                       35
<PAGE>

assessment  of  the financial impact of SFAS No. 142 on its financial statements
is  that  $27.3  million  of amortization expense of existing goodwill and other
intangible  assets  for  the  fiscal  year ending February 28, 2002, will not be
incurred  in  subsequent  fiscal  years.   The  required  transition  impairment
evaluations are not expected to result in impairment charges.

     In  August  2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  143 ("SFAS No. 143"), "Accounting for
Asset  Retirement Obligations."  SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting and
reporting  for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived
assets  and  the  associated  retirement costs. The Company is required to adopt
SFAS No. 143 for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2003.  The Company is currently
assessing the financial impact of SFAS No. 143 on its financial statements.

     In  October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ("SFAS No. 144"), "Accounting for the
Impairment  or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."  SFAS No. 144 addresses financial
accounting  and  reporting  for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets.
SFAS  No.  144  supersedes  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be  Disposed  Of,"  and  the  accounting  and reporting provisions of Accounting
Principles  Board Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations-Reporting
the  Effects  of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual
and  Infrequently  Occurring  Events  and  Transactions,"  for the disposal of a
segment  of  a business (as previously defined in that Opinion).  The Company is
required  to  adopt  SFAS No. 144 for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2002.  The
Company  believes  the financial impact of  SFAS No. 144 will not be material on
its financial statements.

     In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  145 ("SFAS No. 145"), "Rescission of FASB
Statements  No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections."  SFAS No. 145 rescinds Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No.  4 ("SFAS No. 4"), "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt,"
Statement  of  Financial Accounting Standards No. 44, "Accounting for Intangible
Assets  of  Motor Carriers," and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
64,  "Extinguishments  of  Debt  Made  to Satisfy Sinking-Fund Requirements." In
addition,  SFAS  No.  145 amends Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
13,  "Accounting  for  Leases,"  to  eliminate an inconsistency between required
accounting  for  sale-leaseback  transactions  and  the  required accounting for
certain  lease  modifications  that  have  economic  effects that are similar to
sale-leaseback  transactions.  Lastly,  SFAS  No. 145 also amends other existing
authoritative  pronouncements  to  make  various  technical corrections, clarify
meanings,  or describe their applicability under changed conditions. The Company
is  required to adopt the provisions related to the rescission of SFAS No. 4 for
fiscal  years  beginning March 1, 2003. All other provisions of SFAS No. 145 are
effective  for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2002. The Company does not expect
the  adoption  of  SFAS  No.  145  to  have  a  material impact on its financial
statements.  However,  it  will  result  in a reclassification of the previously
reported  extraordinary  item,  net  of  income  taxes, to increase nonoperating
expense  ($2.6  million)  and  to  decrease the provision for income taxes ($1.0
million).

EURO CONVERSION ISSUES

     Effective  January  1,  1999, eleven of the fifteen member countries of the
European  Union  (the  "Participating  Countries")  established fixed conversion
rates  between  their  existing  sovereign  currencies  and the euro.  Effective
January  1,  2002,  the  euro  became  the  sole  currency  of the Participating
Countries.  The Company does not believe that the effects of the conversion will
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and operations.

                                       36
<PAGE>

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------

     The  Company  is exposed to market risk associated with changes in interest
rates and foreign currency exchange rates.  To manage the volatility relating to
these  risks,  the  Company  periodically  enters  into  derivative transactions
including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate swap agreements.
The  Company  has  limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and
does not use them for trading purposes.  The Company uses derivative instruments
solely to reduce the financial impact of these risks.

     The  fair  value  of  long-term  debt  is  subject  to  interest rate risk.
Generally, the fair value of long-term debt will increase as interest rates fall
and  decrease as interest rates rise.  The estimated fair value of the Company's
total  long-term  debt,  including  current  maturities, was $1,407.4 million at
February 28, 2002.  A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates at
February  28,  2002,  would result in a decrease in fair value of fixed interest
rate  long-term  debt  by  $57.6 million.  Also, a hypothetical 1% increase from
prevailing  interest  rates at February 28, 2002, would result in an approximate
increase in cash required for interest on variable interest rate debt during the
next five fiscal years as follows:

                           2003     $2.5  million
                           2004     $1.7  million
                           2005     $0.7  million
                           2006     $ -
                           2007     $ -

     The  Company  has on occasion entered into interest rate swap agreements to
reduce  its exposure to interest rate changes relative to its long-term debt. At
February 28, 2002, the Company had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding.

     The  Company  has  exposure  to foreign currency risk as a result of having
international  subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Canada.  For the Company's
operations  in the United Kingdom, the Company uses local currency borrowings to
hedge its earnings and cash flow exposure to adverse changes in foreign currency
exchange  rates.  At  February 28, 2002, management believes that a hypothetical
10%  adverse  change  in  foreign  currency exchange rates would not result in a
material  adverse  impact on either earnings or cash flow.  The Company also has
exposure to foreign currency risk as a result of contracts to purchase inventory
items  that  are  denominated in various foreign currencies.  In order to reduce
the  risk  of  foreign  currency exchange rate fluctuations resulting from these
contracts,  the  Company  periodically  enters  into  foreign  exchange  hedging
agreements.  At  February  28,  2002,  the potential loss on outstanding foreign
exchange  hedging  agreements  from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign
currency exchange rates would not be material.

                                       37
<PAGE>

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
-------   -------------------------------------------


                   CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   -------------------------------------------

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                   ------------------------------------------
                                       AND
                                       ---
                             SUPPLEMENTARY SCHEDULES
                             -----------------------

                                FEBRUARY 28, 2002
                                -----------------


The following information is presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
Report of Independent Public Accountants.................................    39
Consolidated Balance Sheets - February 28, 2002, and February 28, 2001...    40
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended February 28, 2002,
  February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000...............................    41
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the years
  ended February 28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000......    42
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
  February 28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000............    43
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...............................    44
Selected Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited).....................    75

Schedules  I  through V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not
required under the rules of Regulation S-X.

Individual  financial statements of the Registrant have been omitted because the
Registrant  is  primarily an operating company and no subsidiary included in the
consolidated financial statements has minority equity interest and/or noncurrent
indebtedness,  not  guaranteed  by  the  Registrant,  in  excess  of 5% of total
consolidated assets.

                                       38
<PAGE>

                                               [LOGO]
                                                     ANDERSEN



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Constellation Brands, Inc.:

We  have  audited  the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Constellation
Brands,  Inc.  (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of February 28, 2002
and  February  28,  2001,  and  the  related  consolidated statements of income,
changes  in  stockholders'  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in
the  period  ended  February  28,  2002.  These  financial  statements  are  the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in  the  United  States.  Those  standards  require that we plan and perform the
audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free  of  material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit  also  includes  assessing  the accounting principles used and significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating the overall financial
statement  presentation.  We  believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all  material respects, the financial position of Constellation Brands, Inc. and
subsidiaries  as  of February 28, 2002 and February 28, 2001, and the results of
their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  February  28,  2002  in  conformity  with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.


                                       /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP



Rochester, New York
April 9, 2002

                                       39
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                         CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                       (in thousands, except share and per share data)

                                                                   February 28,    February 28,
                                                                       2002            2001
                                                                   ------------    ------------

                         ASSETS
                         ------
<S>                                                                <C>             <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash and cash investments                                        $      8,961    $    145,672
  Accounts receivable, net                                              383,922         314,262
  Inventories, net                                                      777,586         670,018
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets                              60,779          61,037
                                                                   ------------    ------------
    Total current assets                                              1,231,248       1,190,989
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, net                                      578,764         548,614
OTHER ASSETS                                                          1,259,373         772,566
                                                                   ------------    ------------
  Total assets                                                     $  3,069,385    $  2,512,169
                                                                   ============    ============

       LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
       ------------------------------------
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Notes payable                                                    $     54,775    $      4,184
  Current maturities of long-term debt                                   81,609          54,176
  Accounts payable                                                      153,433         114,793
  Accrued excise taxes                                                   60,238          55,954
  Other accrued expenses and liabilities                                245,155         198,053
                                                                   ------------    ------------
    Total current liabilities                                           595,210         427,160
                                                                   ------------    ------------
LONG-TERM DEBT, less current maturities                               1,293,183       1,307,437
                                                                   ------------    ------------
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES                                                   163,146         131,974
                                                                   ------------    ------------
OTHER LIABILITIES                                                        62,110          29,330
                                                                   ------------    ------------
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:
  Preferred Stock, $.01 par value-
    Authorized, 1,000,000 shares;
    Issued, none at February 28, 2002,
    and February 28, 2001                                                  -               -
  Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value-
    Authorized, 120,000,000 shares;
    Issued, 79,309,174 shares at
    February 28, 2002, and 74,877,936 shares
    at February 28, 2001                                                    793             749
  Class B Convertible Common Stock,
    $.01 par value-
    Authorized, 20,000,000 shares;
    Issued, 14,608,390 shares at
    February 28, 2002, and 14,805,188 shares
    at February 28, 2001                                                    146             148
  Additional paid-in capital                                            431,216         267,206
  Retained earnings                                                     592,219         455,798
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                  (35,222)        (26,004)
                                                                   ------------    ------------
                                                                        989,152         697,897
                                                                   ------------    ------------
  Less-Treasury stock-
  Class A Common Stock, 2,895,526 shares at
    February 28, 2002, and 12,401,200 shares at
    February 28, 2001, at cost                                          (31,159)        (79,271)
  Class B Convertible Common Stock, 2,502,900 shares
    at February 28, 2002, and February 28, 2001, at cost                 (2,207)         (2,207)
                                                                   ------------    ------------
                                                                        (33,366)        (81,478)
                                                                   ------------    ------------
  Less-Unearned compensation-restricted stock awards                        (50)           (151)
                                                                   ------------    ------------
    Total stockholders' equity                                          955,736         616,268
                                                                   ------------    ------------
  Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                       $  3,069,385    $  2,512,169
                                                                   ============    ============
<FN>
                 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                        are an integral part of these balance sheets.
</TABLE>
                                       40
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                              CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                 (in thousands, except per share data)

                                                                      For the Years Ended
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                          February 28,    February 28,    February 29,
                                                              2002            2001            2000
                                                         --------------  --------------  --------------
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
GROSS SALES                                              $    3,633,958   $   3,154,294   $   3,088,699
  Less - Excise taxes                                          (813,455)       (757,609)       (748,230)
                                                         --------------   -------------   -------------
    Net sales                                                 2,820,503       2,396,685       2,340,469
COST OF PRODUCT SOLD                                         (1,901,462)     (1,639,230)     (1,618,009)
                                                         --------------   -------------   -------------
    Gross profit                                                919,041         757,455         722,460
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
  EXPENSES                                                     (576,560)       (486,587)       (481,909)
NONRECURRING CHARGES                                               -               -             (5,510)
                                                         --------------   -------------   -------------
    Operating income                                            342,481         270,868         235,041
EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF JOINT VENTURE                               1,667            -               -
INTEREST EXPENSE, net                                          (114,189)       (108,631)       (106,082)
                                                         --------------   --------------  -------------
    Income before income taxes and extraordinary item           229,959         162,237         128,959
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                                      (91,984)        (64,895)        (51,584)
                                                         --------------   -------------   -------------
    Income before extraordinary item                            137,975          97,342          77,375
EXTRAORDINARY ITEM, net of income taxes                          (1,554)           -               -
                                                         --------------   -------------   -------------
NET INCOME                                               $      136,421   $      97,342   $      77,375
                                                         ==============   =============   =============


SHARE DATA:
Earnings per common share:
  Basic:
  Income before extraordinary item                       $        1.62    $        1.33   $        1.07
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes                        (0.02)            -               -
                                                         -------------    -------------   -------------
  Earnings per common share - basic                      $        1.60    $        1.33   $        1.07
                                                         =============    =============   =============

  Diluted:
  Income before extraordinary item                       $        1.57    $        1.30   $        1.05
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes                        (0.02)            -               -
                                                         -------------    -------------   -------------
  Earnings per common share - diluted                    $        1.55    $        1.30   $        1.05
                                                         =============    =============   =============

Weighted average common shares outstanding:
  Basic                                                         85,505           73,446          72,216
  Diluted                                                       87,825           74,751          73,996
<FN>

  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
</TABLE>

                                       41
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                                 (in thousands, except share data)

                                                                                 Accumulated
                                         Common Stock    Additional                Other
                                       ----------------    Paid-in    Retained  Comprehensive  Treasury     Unearned
                                       Class A  Class B    Capital    Earnings      Loss         Stock    Compensation    Total
                                       -------  -------  ----------  ---------  -------------  ---------  ------------  ---------
<S>                                    <C>      <C>      <C>         <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>           <C>
BALANCE, February 28, 1999             $   716  $   154  $  239,260  $ 281,081  $      (4,173) $ (81,766) $       -     $ 435,272
Comprehensive income:
  Net income for Fiscal 2000              -        -           -        77,375           -          -             -        77,375
  Foreign currency translation
    adjustments                           -        -           -          -                24       -             -            24
                                                                                                                        ---------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                       77,399
Conversion of 414,452 Class B
  Convertible Common shares to
  Class A Common shares                      4       (4)       -          -              -          -             -          -
Exercise of 750,760 Class A
  stock options                              8     -          3,355       -              -          -             -         3,363
Employee stock purchases of
  124,248 treasury shares                 -        -          1,298       -              -           130          -         1,428
Acceleration of 378,900 Class A
  stock options                           -        -            835       -              -          -             -           835
Tax benefit on Class A stock
  options exercised                       -        -          2,634       -              -          -             -         2,634
Tax benefit on disposition of
  employee stock purchases                -        -             43       -              -          -             -            43
Other                                     -        -           (134)      -              -          -             -          (134)
                                       -------  -------  ----------  ---------  -------------  ---------  ------------  ---------

BALANCE, February 29, 2000                 728      150     247,291    358,456         (4,149)   (81,636)         -       520,840
Comprehensive income:
  Net income for Fiscal 2001              -        -           -        97,342           -          -             -        97,342
  Foreign currency translation
    adjustments                           -        -           -          -           (21,855)      -             -       (21,855)
                                                                                                                        ---------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                       75,487
Conversion of 177,052 Class B
  Convertible Common shares to
  Class A Common shares                      2       (2)       -          -              -          -             -          -
Exercise of 1,859,136 Class A
  stock options                             19     -         13,811       -              -          -             -        13,830
Employee stock purchases of 147,776
  treasury shares                         -        -          1,389       -              -           158          -         1,547
Acceleration of 63,500 Class A
  stock options                           -        -            179       -              -          -             -           179
Issuance of 15,100 restricted
  Class A Common shares                   -        -            201       -              -          -              (201)     -
Amortization of unearned restricted
  stock compensation                      -        -           -          -              -          -                50        50
Tax benefit on Class A stock
  options exercised                       -        -          4,256       -              -          -             -         4,256
Tax benefit on disposition of
  employee stock purchases                -        -             28       -              -          -             -            28
Other                                     -        -             51       -              -          -             -            51
                                       -------  -------  ----------  ---------  -------------  ---------  ------------  ---------

BALANCE, February 28, 2001                 749      148     267,206    455,798        (26,004)   (81,478)         (151)   616,268
Comprehensive income:
  Net income for Fiscal 2002              -        -           -       136,421           -          -             -       136,421
  Other comprehensive (loss) income,
    net of tax:
      Foreign currency translation
        adjustments                       -        -           -          -            (9,239)      -             -        (9,239)
      Unrealized gain on cash
        flow hedges:
          Net derivative gains, net
            of tax effect of $105         -        -           -          -               212       -             -           212
          Reclassification
            adjustments, net of tax
            effect of $92                 -        -           -          -              (191)      -             -          (191)
                                                                                                                        ---------
      Unrealized gain on cash
        flow hedges                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                                        ---------
  Other comprehensive (loss) income,
    net of tax                                                                                                             (9,218)
                                                                                                                        ---------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                      127,203
Conversion of 196,798 Class B
  Convertible Common shares to
  Class A Common shares                      2       (2)       -          -              -          -             -          -
Exercise of 4,234,440 Class A
  stock options                             42     -         45,602       -              -          -             -        45,644
Employee stock purchases of 120,674
  treasury shares                         -        -            639       -              -         1,347          -         1,986
Amortization of unearned restricted
  stock compensation                      -        -           -          -              -          -              101        101
Issuance of 9,385,000 treasury
  shares, net of fees                     -        -        104,714       -              -        46,765          -       151,479
Tax benefit on Class A
  stock options exercised                 -        -         12,836       -              -          -             -        12,836
Tax benefit on disposition of
  employee stock purchases                -        -             65       -              -          -             -            65
Other                                     -        -            154       -              -          -             -           154
                                       -------  -------  ----------  ---------  -------------  ---------  ------------  ---------

BALANCE, February 28, 2002             $   793  $   146  $  431,216  $ 592,219  $     (35,222) $ (33,366) $        (50) $ 955,736
                                       =======  =======  ==========  =========  =============  =========  ============  =========
<FN>

               The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
</TABLE>

                                       42
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                 CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                                (in thousands)

                                                                           For the Years Ended
                                                                -----------------------------------------
                                                                February 28,   February 28,   February 29,
                                                                    2002           2001           2000
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                                             <C>            <C>            <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  Net income                                                    $    136,421   $     97,342   $    77,375

  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
    provided by operating activities:
      Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                   51,873         44,613        40,892
      Amortization of intangible assets                               33,531         25,770        23,831
      Deferred tax provision (benefit)                                 3,675          6,677        (1,500)
      Extraordinary item, net of income taxes                          1,554           -             -
      Amortization of discount on long-term debt                         516            503           427
    Loss (gain) on sale of assets                                        324          2,356        (2,003)
    Stock-based compensation expense                                     101            280           856
    Equity in earnings of joint venture                               (1,667)          -             -
    Change in operating assets and liabilities,
      net of effects from purchases of businesses:
        Accounts receivable, net                                     (44,804)       (27,375)      (10,812)
        Inventories, net                                             (19,130)       (57,126)        1,926
        Prepaid expenses and other current assets                        566         (6,443)        4,663
        Accounts payable                                              19,069        (11,354)      (17,070)
        Accrued excise taxes                                           4,502         26,519       (18,719)
        Other accrued expenses and liabilities                        30,996          4,333        44,184
        Other assets and liabilities, net                             (4,228)        (2,320)        4,005
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
          Total adjustments                                           76,878          6,433        70,680
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
          Net cash provided by operating activities                  213,299        103,775       148,055
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Purchases of businesses, net of cash acquired                     (472,832)        (4,459)     (452,910)
  Investment in joint venture                                        (77,282)          -             -
  Purchases of property, plant and equipment                         (71,148)       (68,217)      (57,747)
  Proceeds from sale of assets                                        35,815          2,009        14,977
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
          Net cash used in investing activities                     (585,447)       (70,667)     (495,680)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of discount          252,539        319,400     1,486,240
  Proceeds from equity offerings, net of fees                        151,479           -             -
  Net proceeds from (repayment of) notes payable                      51,403        (23,615)      (60,629)
  Exercise of employee stock options                                  45,027         13,806         3,358
  Proceeds from employee stock purchases                               1,986          1,547         1,428
  Principal payments of long-term debt                              (260,982)      (221,908)   (1,059,952)
  Payment of issuance costs of long-term debt                         (4,537)        (5,794)      (14,888)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
          Net cash provided by financing activities                  236,915         83,436       355,557
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash investments          (1,478)        (5,180)       (1,269)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------

NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH INVESTMENTS                (136,711)       111,364         6,663
CASH AND CASH INVESTMENTS, beginning of year                         145,672         34,308        27,645
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
CASH AND CASH INVESTMENTS, end of year                          $      8,961   $    145,672   $    34,308
                                                                ============   ============   ===========

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
  Cash paid during the year for:
    Interest                                                    $    122,121   $    105,644   $    95,004
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
    Income taxes                                                $     75,054   $     54,427   $    35,478
                                                                ============   ============   ===========

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF NONCASH INVESTING
  AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
    Fair value of assets acquired, including cash acquired      $    617,487   $     15,115   $   562,204
    Liabilities assumed                                             (138,913)       (10,656)     (106,805)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Cash paid                                                        478,574          4,459       455,399
    Less - cash acquired                                              (5,742)          -           (2,489)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Net cash paid for purchases of businesses                   $    472,832   $      4,459   $   452,910
                                                                ============   ============   ===========

    Property, plant and equipment contributed to joint venture  $     30,020   $       -      $      -
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
<FN>

  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
</TABLE>

                                       43
<PAGE>


                   CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                FEBRUARY 28, 2002

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

     DESCRIPTION  OF  BUSINESS -
     Constellation  Brands,  Inc.  and  its subsidiaries (the "Company") operate
primarily  in  the  beverage  alcohol  industry.  The Company is a leader in the
production  and  marketing  of  beverage alcohol brands in North America and the
United  Kingdom.  The  Company  is  the  largest single-source supplier of wine,
imported beer and distilled spirits in the United States. In the United Kingdom,
the  Company is a leading producer and marketer of wine and cider, and a leading
independent  drinks  wholesaler.  The Company's products are distributed by more
than  1,000  wholesale distributors in North America. In the United Kingdom, the
Company  distributes  its  branded products and those of other companies to more
than 16,500 customers.

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION -
     The  consolidated  financial statements of the Company include the accounts
of  Constellation  Brands,  Inc.  and  all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated.


     MANAGEMENT'S USE OF ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENT -
     The  preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and liabilities and
disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements  and  the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION -
     The  "functional  currency"  for  translating the accounts of the Company's
operations  outside  the  U.S.  is  the local currency. The translation from the
applicable  foreign  currencies  to  U.S. dollars is performed for balance sheet
accounts  using  current  exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and
for  revenue  and expense accounts using a weighted average exchange rate during
the period. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of
accumulated  other  comprehensive loss.  Gains or losses resulting  from foreign
currency  transactions  are  included  in  selling,  general  and administrative
expenses.

     CASH INVESTMENTS -
     Cash  investments  consist  of  highly  liquid investments with an original
maturity  when  purchased  of three months or less and are stated at cost, which
approximates  market  value.   The  amounts  at  February  28,  2002,  were  not
significant.  At  February  28, 2001, cash investments consist of investments in
commercial paper of $141.0 million, which were classified as held-to-maturity.


     FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS -
     To  meet  the  reporting  requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," the
Company  calculates  the fair value of financial instruments using quoted market
prices  whenever  available.  When  quoted  market prices are not available, the
Company  uses standard pricing models for various types of financial instruments
(such  as  forwards,  options,  swaps, etc.) which take into account the present
value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows.  The  methods and assumptions used to
estimate the fair value of financial instruments are summarized as follows:

                                       44
<PAGE>

     ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE:  The  carrying  amount  approximates fair value due to
the  short  maturity of these instruments, the creditworthiness of the customers
and the large number of customers constituting the accounts receivable balance.
     NOTES PAYABLE:   These instruments are variable interest rate bearing notes
for which the carrying value approximates the fair value.
     LONG-TERM DEBT:   The carrying value of the debt facilities with short-term
variable  interest  rates  approximates  the  fair value.  The fair value of the
fixed  rate  debt  was  estimated by discounting cash flows using interest rates
currently available for debt with similar terms and maturities.
     FOREIGN EXCHANGE HEDGING AGREEMENTS:   The  fair  value of currency forward
contracts is estimated based on quoted market prices.
     LETTERS OF CREDIT: At February 28, 2002, and February 28, 2001, the Company
had  letters  of  credit  outstanding  totaling $13.2 million and $12.3 million,
respectively,  which  guarantee  payment  for  certain  obligations. The Company
recognizes  expense  on these obligations as incurred and no material losses are
anticipated.

     The  carrying  amount  and  estimated fair value of the Company's financial
instruments are summarized as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        February 28, 2002                        February 28, 2001
                             ---------------------------------------   --------------------------------------
                              Notional      Carrying        Fair        Notional     Carrying        Fair
                               Amount        Amount         Value        Amount       Amount         Value
                             ----------    -----------   -----------   ----------   -----------   -----------
(in thousands)
<S>                          <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>
Assets:
------
Currency forward contracts   $    2,277    $         6   $         6   $    7,250   $      -      $       353

Liabilities:
-----------
Notes payable                $     -       $    54,775   $    54,775   $     -      $     4,184   $     4,184
Long-term debt, including
  current portion            $     -       $ 1,374,792   $ 1,407,374   $     -      $ 1,361,613   $ 1,380,050
Currency forward contracts   $    8,810    $      (105)  $      (105)  $     -      $      -      $      -
</TABLE>

     INTEREST RATE FUTURES AND CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS -
     From  time  to  time,  the  Company enters into interest rate futures and a
variety  of  currency  forward contracts in the management of interest rate risk
and  foreign  currency transaction exposure. The Company has limited involvement
with  derivative  instruments  and  does  not use them for trading purposes. The
Company  uses  derivatives  solely to reduce the financial impact of the related
risks.  Effective  March  1,  2001,  the  Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards  No.  133  ("SFAS  No.  133"),  "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities", as amended, which establishes accounting
and reporting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities.  SFAS
No.  133 requires that the Company recognize all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities  on  the  balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value.
The  adoption  of  SFAS  No. 133 did not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

     The Company uses foreign currency exchange agreements to reduce the risk of
foreign  currency  exchange rate fluctuations resulting primarily from contracts
to  purchase inventory items that are denominated in various foreign currencies.
Certain  of  these  derivative contracts are designated to hedge the exposure to
variable  cash flows of a forecasted transaction and are classified as cash flow
hedges.  As  such,  the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the
derivatives  is  recorded  each period in the balance sheet in accumulated other
comprehensive  income/loss  ("AOCI"),  and is reclassified into the statement of
income, primarily as  a  component  of  cost of product sold, in the same period
during  which  the  hedged  transaction  affects earnings.  The currency forward
exchange  contracts used generally have maturity terms of twelve months or less.
The Company expects the entire balance in AOCI related to cash flow hedges to be
reclassified  to  the  statement  of  income within the next twelve months.  The
Company  formally  documents  all  relationships between hedging instruments and
hedged items in accordance with SFAS No. 133 requirements.

                                       45
<PAGE>

     The  Company  uses  the  remaining  foreign currency exchange agreements to
reduce  the  risk  of  foreign  currency  exchange  rate  fluctuations resulting
primarily  from  recorded  accounts  payable   denominated  in  various  foreign
currencies.  As  these  derivative contracts have not been designated as hedging
instruments,  all  resulting  gains  or losses are recognized in earnings in the
period of change.

     The  Company has exposure to foreign currency risk, primarily in the United
Kingdom,  as  a  result  of  having international subsidiaries. The Company uses
local  currency  borrowings  to  hedge  its  earnings  and cash flow exposure to
adverse  changes  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  Such  borrowings  are
designated  as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in
the  foreign  operation.  Accordingly,  the  effective  portion  of  the foreign
currency gain or loss on the hedging debt instrument is reported in AOCI as part
of the foreign currency translation adjustments. For fiscal years ended February
28,  2002,  and  February 28, 2001, net gains of $5.4 million and $20.0 million,
respectively,  are  included  in foreign currency translation adjustments within
AOCI.

     INVENTORIES -
     Inventories  are  stated  at the lower of cost (computed in accordance with
the  first-in,  first-out method) or market. Elements of cost include materials,
labor and overhead and consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                 February 28,     February 28,
                                     2002             2001
                                 ------------     ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                              <C>              <C>
Raw materials and supplies       $     34,126     $     28,007
In-process inventories                524,373          450,650
Finished case goods                   219,087          191,361
                                 ------------     ------------
                                 $    777,586     $    670,018
                                 ============     ============
</TABLE>

     A  substantial  portion  of  barreled  whiskey  and brandy will not be sold
within  one  year  because  of  the duration of the aging process.  All barreled
whiskey  and brandy are classified as in-process inventories and are included in
current assets, in accordance with industry practice.  Bulk wine inventories are
also  included  as  in-process  inventories within current assets, in accordance
with  the  general  practices  of  the wine industry, although a portion of such
inventories  may  be  aged  for  periods  greater  than  one year.  Warehousing,
insurance,  ad  valorem  taxes and other carrying charges applicable to barreled
whiskey and brandy held for aging are included in inventory costs.

     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT -
     Property,  plant  and  equipment  is  stated  at  cost. Major additions and
betterments  are charged to property accounts, while maintenance and repairs are
charged  to  operations  as  incurred.  The cost of properties sold or otherwise
disposed  of  and  the  related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the
accounts  at the time of disposal and resulting gains and losses are included as
a component of operating income.

     DEPRECIATION -
     Depreciation  is computed primarily using the straight-line method over the
following estimated useful lives:

                                           Depreciable Life in Years
                                           -------------------------
     Buildings and improvements                  10 to 33 1/3
     Machinery and equipment                      3 to 15
     Motor vehicles                               3 to 7

     Amortization  of  assets  capitalized under capital leases is included with
depreciation  expense. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method
over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.

                                       46
<PAGE>

     OTHER  ASSETS  -
     Other  assets,  which consist of goodwill, distribution rights, trademarks,
agency  license  agreements,  deferred financing costs, prepaid pension benefits
and  other  amounts,  are  stated  at  cost,  net  of  accumulated amortization.
Amortization  is  calculated on a straight-line or effective interest basis over
the following estimated useful lives:

                                         Useful Life in Years
                                         --------------------
     Goodwill                                     40
     Distribution rights                          40
     Trademarks                                   40
     Agency license agreements                 16 to 40
     Deferred financing costs                   5 to 10

     LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND INTANGIBLES -
     In  accordance  with  Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
be  Disposed  of,"  the  Company  reviews  its  long-lived  assets  and  certain
identifiable   intangibles   for   impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in
circumstances  indicate  that  the  carrying  amount  of  an  asset  may  not be
recoverable  on  an  undiscounted  cash  flow basis. The statement also requires
that,  when  an   impairment   has   occurred,  long-lived  assets  and  certain
identifiable  intangibles to be disposed of be reported at the lower of carrying
amount or fair value less cost to sell. The Company recorded an asset impairment
of  $1.4 million in Fiscal 2002 in connection with the sale of the Stevens Point
Brewery in March 2002.

     ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION COSTS -
     The Company generally expenses advertising and promotion costs as incurred,
shown  or  distributed.  Prepaid  advertising  costs  at  February 28, 2002, and
February  28, 2001, were not material. Advertising and promotion expense for the
years  ended  February  28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000, were
$310.9 million, $264.4 million, and $279.6 million, respectively.

     INCOME TAXES -
     The  Company  uses the liability method of accounting for income taxes. The
liability  method accounts for deferred income taxes by applying statutory rates
in  effect  at  the  balance  sheet date to the difference between the financial
reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities.

     ENVIRONMENTAL -
     Environmental  expenditures  that relate to current operations are expensed
as appropriate. Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past
operations, and which do not contribute to current or future revenue generation,
are  expensed.  Liabilities  are  recorded when environmental assessments and/or
remedial  efforts  are  probable,  and  the  cost  can  be reasonably estimated.
Generally,  the  timing  of  these  accruals  coincides with the completion of a
feasibility  study  or  the  Company's  commitment  to  a formal plan of action.
Liabilities for  environmental costs were not material at February 28, 2002, and
February 28, 2001.

     COMPREHENSIVE INCOME -
     Comprehensive  income  consists of net income, foreign currency translation
adjustments  and net unrealized gains on derivative instruments and is presented
in  the  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. See Note 15
for changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss.

                                       47
<PAGE>

     EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE -
     Basic  earnings  per  common  share  excludes  the  effect  of common stock
equivalents  and is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders
by  the  weighted  average number of common shares outstanding during the period
for  Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. Diluted earnings
per common share reflects the potential dilution that could result if securities
or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common
stock.  Diluted  earnings per common share assumes the exercise of stock options
using  the  treasury  stock  method  and  assumes  the conversion of convertible
securities, if any, using the "if converted" method.

     COMMON STOCK SPLIT -
     During  April  2002,  the  Board  of Directors approved a two-for-one stock
split  of both the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common
Stock,  which  will  be  distributed  in the form of a stock dividend on May 13,
2002,  to  stockholders  of  record  on  April 30, 2002. All share and per share
amounts  have  been  retroactively  restated  to give effect to the common stock
split.

     OTHER -
     Certain  February  28,  2001,  and  February  29,  2000, balances have been
reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

2.   ACQUISITIONS:

     BLACK VELVET ASSETS ACQUISITION -
     On  April  9,  1999,  in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired several
well-known Canadian whisky brands, including Black Velvet, production facilities
located  in  Alberta  and Quebec, Canada, case goods and bulk whisky inventories
and  other  related  assets  from  affiliates  of  Diageo plc (the "Black Velvet
Assets").  In  connection  with  the  transaction, the Company also entered into
multi-year  agreements  with  affiliates  of Diageo plc to provide packaging and
distilling  services  for  various brands retained by the Diageo plc affiliates.
The  purchase price was $183.6 million and was financed by the proceeds from the
sale of the Senior Subordinated Notes (as defined in Note 7).

     The  Black  Velvet  Assets acquisition was accounted for using the purchase
method;  accordingly,  the acquired assets were recorded at fair market value at
the  date  of  acquisition.  The excess of the purchase price over the estimated
fair market value of the net assets acquired (goodwill), $36.0 million, is being
amortized  on a straight-line basis over 40 years.  The results of operations of
the  Black  Velvet  Assets are reported in the Imported Beer and Spirits segment
and  have  been included in the Consolidated Statements of Income since the date
of acquisition.

     FRANCISCAN AND SIMI ACQUISITIONS -
     On June 4, 1999, the Company purchased all of the outstanding capital stock
of   Franciscan   Vineyards,  Inc.   ("Franciscan  Estates")   and,  in  related
transactions,  purchased  vineyards, equipment and other vineyard related assets
located in Northern California (collectively, the "Franciscan Acquisition"). The
purchase  price  was  $212.4  million  in  cash  plus  assumed debt, net of cash
acquired,  of  $30.8  million.  The  purchase  price  was  financed primarily by
additional  term loan borrowings under the senior credit facility. Also, on June
4,  1999,  the  Company  purchased  all of the outstanding capital stock of Simi
Winery,  Inc.  ("Simi")  (the  "Simi  Acquisition"). The cash purchase price was
$57.5  million  and  was  financed by revolving loan borrowings under the senior
credit  facility.  The  purchases  were accounted for using the purchase method;
accordingly,  the acquired assets were recorded at fair market value at the date
of  acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair market
value  of  the net assets acquired (goodwill) for the Franciscan Acquisition and
the  Simi  Acquisition,  $94.5  million and $5.8 million, respectively, is being
amortized  on  a  straight-line  basis over 40 years. The Franciscan Estates and
Simi  operations, together with  Ravenswood (as defined below), are managed as a
separate business

                                       48
<PAGE>

segment of the Company ("Fine Wine"). The results of operations of the Fine Wine
segment  have  been  included in the Consolidated Statements of Income since the
date of acquisition.

     FORTH WINES ACQUISITION -
     On  October  27,  2000,  the  Company  purchased all of the issued Ordinary
Shares  and  Preference  Shares  of  Forth  Wines  Limited ("Forth Wines").  The
purchase price was $4.5 million and was accounted for using the purchase method;
accordingly,  the  acquired net assets were recorded at fair market value at the
date  of  acquisition.  The  excess  of  the purchase price over the fair market
value of the net assets acquired (goodwill), $2.2 million, is being amortized on
a  straight-line  basis over 40 years.  The results of operations of Forth Wines
are  reported in the U.K. Brands and Wholesale segment and have been included in
the Consolidated Statements of Income since the date of acquisition.

     TURNER ROAD VINTNERS ASSETS ACQUISITION -
     On  March  5,  2001,  in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired several
well-known  premium  wine brands, including Vendange, Nathanson Creek, Heritage,
and  Talus, working capital (primarily inventories), two wineries in California,
and  other  related  assets  from  Sebastiani Vineyards, Inc. and Tuolomne River
Vintners  Group  (the  "Turner  Road Vintners Assets"). The preliminary purchase
price  of  the Turner Road Vintners Assets, including assumption of indebtedness
of  $9.4  million,  was  $289.8  million. The purchase price is subject to final
closing  adjustments  which  the  Company  does  not  expect to be material. The
acquisition  was  financed  by  the  proceeds from the sale of the February 2001
Senior  Notes  (as  defined  in  Note 7) and revolving loan borrowings under the
senior  credit  facility.  The  Turner  Road  Vintners  Assets  acquisition  was
accounted  for  using  the purchase method; accordingly, the acquired net assets
were  recorded at fair market value at the date of acquisition, subject to final
appraisal. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair market value
of  the  net assets acquired (goodwill), $146.1 million, is being amortized on a
straight-line  basis over 40 years. The results of operations of the Turner Road
Vintners  Assets  are  reported in the Popular and Premium Wine segment and have
been  included  in  the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  since the date of
acquisition.

     CORUS ASSETS ACQUISITION -
     On  March  26,  2001, in an asset acquisition, the Company acquired certain
wine  brands,  wineries,  working  capital  (primarily  inventories),  and other
related  assets  from   Corus  Brands,  Inc.  (the  "Corus  Assets").   In  this
acquisition,  the  Company  acquired  several  well-known  premium  wine  brands
primarily sold in the northwestern United States, including Covey Run, Columbia,
Ste.  Chapelle  and  Alice  White.  The  preliminary purchase price of the Corus
Assets,  including assumption of indebtedness of $3.0 million, was $52.3 million
plus  an  earn-out  over  six years based on the performance of the brands.  The
purchase  price  is  subject to final closing adjustments which the Company does
not expect to be material.  In connection with the transaction, the Company also
entered  into long-term grape supply agreements with affiliates of Corus Brands,
Inc.  covering  more  than  1,000  acres  of Washington and Idaho vineyards. The
acquisition  was financed with revolving loan borrowings under the senior credit
facility.  The  Corus  Assets  acquisition  was accounted for using the purchase
method;  accordingly, the acquired net assets were recorded at fair market value
at  the  date  of  acquisition,  subject  to final appraisal.  The excess of the
purchase  price  over the estimated fair market value of the net assets acquired
(goodwill),  $44.6  million, is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40
years.  The  results  of  operations  of  the  Corus  Assets are reported in the
Popular  and  Premium  Wine  segment  and have been included in the Consolidated
Statements of Income since the date of acquisition.

     RAVENSWOOD ACQUISITION -
     On July 2, 2001, the Company acquired  all of the outstanding capital stock
of  Ravenswood  Winery,  Inc.  ("Ravenswood").  Ravenswood produces, markets and
sells  super-premium  and  ultra-premium  California  wine,  primarily under the
Ravenswood  brand name.  The preliminary purchase price of Ravenswood, including
assumption  of  indebtedness  of $2.9 million, was $151.8 million.  The purchase
price  is subject to final closing adjustments which the Company does not expect
to be material. The

                                       49
<PAGE>

purchase  price  was  financed  with  revolving loan borrowings under the senior
credit facility. The Ravenswood acquisition was accounted for using the purchase
method;  accordingly, the acquired net assets were recorded at fair market value
at  the  date  of  acquisition,  subject  to  final appraisal. The excess of the
purchase  price  over the estimated fair market value of the net assets acquired
(goodwill),  $98.9 million, is not amortizable and will be tested for impairment
at  least annually in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142 (as defined
in  Note  21).  The  Ravenswood  acquisition  was  consistent with the Company's
strategy of further penetrating the higher gross profit margin super-premium and
ultra-premium  wine  categories.  The  results  of  operations of Ravenswood are
reported  in  the  Fine  Wine segment and have been included in the Consolidated
Statements of Income since the date of acquisition.

     The  following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the Ravenswood
assets  acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. The Company
is  in  the process of obtaining third-party valuations of certain assets; thus,
the  allocation  of  the purchase price is subject to refinement. Estimated fair
values at July 2, 2001, are as follows:

          Current assets                               $  38,044
          Property, plant and equipment                   14,994
          Other assets                                       353
          Trademarks                                      50,000
          Goodwill                                        93,948
                                                       ---------
            Total assets acquired                        197,339

          Current liabilities                             14,019
          Long-term liabilities                           34,396
                                                       ---------
            Total liabilities assumed                     48,415
                                                       ---------

          Net assets acquired                          $ 148,924
                                                       =========

     The  trademarks  are  not subject to amortization.  None of the goodwill is
expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

     The following table sets forth unaudited pro forma results of operations of
the Company for the fiscal years ended February 28, 2002, and February 28, 2001.
The unaudited pro forma results of operations give effect to the acquisitions of
the  Turner  Road  Vintners  Assets,  the Corus Assets and Ravenswood as if they
occurred on March 1, 2000. The unaudited pro forma results of operations for the
fiscal  year  ended  February  28,  2001,  does not give pro forma effect to the
acquisition  of  Forth  Wines  as  if it occurred on March 1, 2000, as it is not
significant.  The  unaudited pro forma results of operations are presented after
giving effect to certain adjustments for depreciation, amortization of goodwill,
interest  expense  on  the acquisition financing and related income tax effects.
The  unaudited  pro  forma  results  of operations for Fiscal 2002 (shown in the
table  below),  reflect  total  nonrecurring charges of $12.6 million ($0.09 per
share  on  a  diluted  basis)  related  to  transaction costs, primarily for the
acceleration  of  vesting  of  stock  options, which were incurred by Ravenswood
prior to the acquisition.

     The  unaudited  pro  forma  results  of operations are based upon currently
available information and upon certain assumptions that the Company believes are
reasonable  under  the  circumstances.   The  unaudited  pro  forma  results  of
operations  do  not  purport to present what the Company's results of operations
would actually have been if the aforementioned transactions had in fact occurred
on  such  date  or at the beginning of the period indicated, nor do they project
the  Company's financial position or results of operations at any future date or
for any future period.

                                       50
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               February 28,    February 28,
                                                   2002            2001
                                               ------------    ------------
(in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                            <C>             <C>
Net sales                                      $  2,835,862    $  2,655,777
Income before extraordinary item               $    129,308    $     80,348
Extraordinary item, net of income taxes        $     (1,554)   $       -
Net income                                     $    127,754    $     80,348

Earnings per common share:
  Basic:
  Income before extraordinary item             $       1.51    $       1.09
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes             (0.02)           -
                                               ------------    ------------
  Earnings per common share - basic            $       1.49    $       1.09
                                               ============    ============

  Diluted:
  Income before extraordinary item             $       1.47    $       1.07
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes             (0.02)           -
                                               ------------    ------------
  Earnings per common share - diluted          $       1.45    $       1.07
                                               ============    ============

Weighted average common shares outstanding:
  Basic                                              85,505          73,446
  Diluted                                            87,825          74,751
</TABLE>

3.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

     The major components of property, plant and equipment are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    February 28,     February 28,
                                        2002             2001
                                    ------------     ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                 <C>              <C>
Land                                $     92,193     $     82,976
Vineyards                                 32,828           47,227
Buildings and improvements               153,643          140,349
Machinery and equipment                  486,881          455,197
Motor vehicles                             7,046            9,190
Construction in progress                  38,071           18,347
                                    ------------     ------------
                                         810,662          753,286
Less - Accumulated depreciation         (231,898)        (204,672)
                                    ------------     ------------
                                    $    578,764     $    548,614
                                    ============     ============
</TABLE>

4.   OTHER ASSETS:

     The major components of other assets are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    February 28,     February 28,
                                        2002             2001
                                    ------------     ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                 <C>              <C>
Goodwill                            $    722,393     $    447,813
Trademarks                               376,718          246,989
Investment in joint venture              110,520             -
Distribution rights and agency
  license agreements                      87,052           87,052
Other                                     75,223           75,382
                                    ------------     ------------
                                       1,371,906          857,236
Less - Accumulated amortization         (112,533)         (84,670)
                                    ------------     ------------
                                    $  1,259,373     $    772,566
                                    ============     ============
</TABLE>

                                       51
<PAGE>

5.   INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURE:

     On July 31, 2001, the Company and BRL Hardy Limited completed the formation
of  Pacific  Wine  Partners  LLC  ("PWP"),  a joint venture owned equally by the
Company and BRL Hardy Limited, the second largest wine company in Australia. PWP
produces,  markets  and  sells  a global portfolio of premium wine in the United
States, including a range of Australian imports.  PWP has exclusive distribution
rights in the United States and the Caribbean to seven brands - Banrock Station,
Hardys,  Leasingham,  Barossa Valley Estate and Chateau Reynella from Australia;
Nobilo  from New Zealand; and La Baume from France.  The joint venture also owns
Farallon, a  premium  California  coastal  wine.  In addition, PWP owns a winery
and  controls  1,400 acres  of  vineyards,  all  located  in  Monterey  County,
California.

     The  Company  contributed  to  PWP  assets  with a carrying amount of $30.0
million  plus  $5.5  million  of  cash.  The Company sold assets with a carrying
amount  of  $31.2  million  to BRL Hardy (USA) Inc. ("Hardy") and received $34.9
million  in  cash.  Hardy  contributed these assets plus $5.5 million of cash to
PWP.  The  Company  and  PWP  are parties to the following agreements: crushing,
wine  production,  bottling,  storage, and related services agreement; inventory
supply  agreement;  sublease  and  assumption  agreements  pertaining to certain
vineyards,  which  agreements include a market value adjustment provision; and a
market  value  adjustment agreement relating to a certain vineyard lease held by
PWP.  As  of February 28, 2002, amounts related to the above agreements were not
material.

     On  October 16, 2001, the Company announced that PWP completed the purchase
of  certain  assets of Blackstone Winery, including the Blackstone brand and the
Codera   wine   business  in  Sonoma  County  ("the  Blackstone  Assets").   The
preliminary  purchase  price of the Blackstone Assets was $138.1 million and was
financed  equally  by  the  Company and Hardy.  The purchase price is subject to
final closing adjustments which the Company does not expect to be material.  The
Company  used revolving loan borrowings under its senior credit facility to fund
the Company's portion of the transaction.

     As  of  February  28,  2002,  the  Company's  investment  balance, which is
accounted for under the equity method, was $110.5 million and is included on the
Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  in  other  assets.  The  carrying  amount  of the
investment is less than the Company's equity in the underlying net assets of PWP
by  $4.1 million.  This amount is included in earnings as the assets are used by
PWP.

6.   OTHER ACCRUED EXPENSES AND LIABILITIES:

     The  major  components  of  other  accrued  expenses and liabilities are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      February 28,         February 28,
                                          2002                 2001
                                      ------------         ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                   <C>                  <C>
Accrued advertising and promotions    $     46,664         $     44,501
Accrued salaries and commissions            33,481               24,589
Adverse grape contracts                     22,447                 -
Accrued income taxes payable                22,120               21,122
Accrued interest                            21,503               28,542
Other                                       98,940               79,299
                                      ------------         ------------
                                      $    245,155         $    198,053
                                      ============         ============
</TABLE>

                                       52
<PAGE>

7.   BORROWINGS:

     Borrowings consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    February 28,
                                                     February 28, 2002                  2001
                                        -----------------------------------------   ------------
                                           Current       Long-term       Total          Total
                                        -------------   -----------   -----------   ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>             <C>           <C>           <C>
Notes Payable:
--------------
  Senior Credit Facility -
    Revolving Credit Loans              $      50,000   $      -      $    50,000   $       -
  Other                                         4,775          -            4,775          4,184
                                        -------------   -----------   -----------   ------------
                                        $      54,775   $      -      $    54,775   $      4,184
                                        =============   ===========   ===========   ============

Long-term Debt:
---------------
  Senior Credit Facility - Term Loans   $      71,902   $   209,390   $   281,292   $    337,595
  Senior Notes                                   -          619,205       619,205        623,507
  Senior Subordinated Notes                      -          450,000       450,000        393,418
  Other Long-term Debt                          9,707        14,588        24,295          7,093
                                        -------------   -----------   -----------   ------------
                                        $      81,609   $ 1,293,183   $ 1,374,792   $  1,361,613
                                        =============   ===========   ===========   ============
</TABLE>

     SENIOR CREDIT FACILITY -
     On  October  6,  1999,  the  Company,  certain  of  its principal operating
subsidiaries  and  a  syndicate  of banks (the "Syndicate Banks"), for which The
Chase  Manhattan Bank acts as administrative agent, entered into a senior credit
facility (as subsequently amended, the "2000 Credit Agreement"). The 2000 Credit
Agreement  includes  both  U.S. dollar and British pound sterling commitments of
the  Syndicate  Banks of up to, in the aggregate, the equivalent of $1.0 billion
(subject  to increase as therein provided to $1.2 billion). Proceeds of the 2000
Credit  Agreement  were  used  to  repay  all  outstanding principal and accrued
interest  on all loans under the Company's prior senior credit facility, and are
available  to  fund  permitted acquisitions and ongoing working capital needs of
the Company and its subsidiaries.

     The 2000 Credit Agreement provides for a $380.0 million Tranche I Term Loan
facility  due  in  December 2004, a $320.0 million Tranche II Term Loan facility
available  for  borrowing  in British pound sterling due in December 2004, and a
$300.0  million  Revolving  Credit facility (including letters of credit up to a
maximum  of  $20.0  million)  which expires in December 2004. The Tranche I Term
Loan  facility  ($380.0  million) and the Tranche II Term Loan facility ((pound)
193.4  million,  or  $320.0  million) were fully drawn at closing. During Fiscal
2001, the Company used proceeds from operating activities to prepay a portion of
the $380.0 million Tranche I Term Loan facility. During Fiscal 2002, the Company
used  proceeds  from  the sale of 645,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common
Stock (see Note 13) to pay an additional portion of the $380.0 million Tranche I
Term Loan facility. After these repayments, the required quarterly repayments of
the  Tranche I Term Loan facility were revised to $17.4 million for each quarter
in  2002,  $19.6  million  for  each quarter in 2003, and $20.0 million for each
quarter  in  2004. On November 17, 1999, proceeds from the Sterling Senior Notes
(as defined below) were used to repay a portion of the $320.0 million Tranche II
Term  Loan  facility ((pound) 73.0 million, or $118.3 million). On May 15, 2000,
proceeds from the Sterling Series C Senior Notes (as defined below) were used to
repay  an additional portion of the $320.0 million Tranche II Term Loan facility
((pound)  78.8 million, or $118.2 million). After these repayments, the required
quarterly  repayments  of  the  Tranche  II  Term  Loan facility were revised to
(pound)  0.4  million  ($0.6 million) for each quarter in 2001 and 2002, (pound)
0.5  million  ($0.7  million)  for each quarter in 2003, and (pound) 8.5 million
($12.0  million) for each quarter in 2004 (the foregoing U.S. dollar equivalents
are as of February 28, 2002). There are certain mandatory term loan prepayments,
including those based on sale of assets and issuance of debt and equity, in each
case subject to customary baskets, exceptions and thresholds.

                                       53
<PAGE>

     The rate of interest payable, at the Company's option, is a function of the
London  interbank offering rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin, federal funds rate plus
a  margin, or the prime rate plus a margin.  The margin is adjustable based upon
the  Company's  Debt  Ratio  (as defined in the 2000 Credit Agreement) and, with
respect to LIBOR borrowings, ranges between 0.75% and 1.25% for Revolving Credit
loans  and  1.00% and 1.75% for Term Loans.  As of February 28, 2002, the margin
was 1.125% for Revolving Credit loans and 1.625% for Term Loans.  In addition to
interest, the Company pays a facility fee on the Revolving Credit commitments at
0.50%  per  annum as of February 28, 2002.  This fee is based upon the Company's
quarterly Debt Ratio and can range from 0.25% to 0.50%.

     Certain  of  the Company's principal operating subsidiaries have guaranteed
the  Company's  obligations  under  the  2000 Credit Agreement.  The 2000 Credit
Agreement  is secured by (i) first priority pledges of 100% of the capital stock
of  Canandaigua Limited and all of the Company's domestic operating subsidiaries
and (ii) first priority pledges of 65% of the capital stock of Matthew Clark and
certain other foreign subsidiaries.

     The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to customary lending covenants
including those restricting additional liens, incurring additional indebtedness,
the  sale  of assets, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates and
the  making  of  certain investments, in each case subject to customary baskets,
exceptions  and  thresholds.   The  primary  financial  covenants   require  the
maintenance  of  a  debt  coverage  ratio, a senior debt coverage ratio, a fixed
charges  ratio  and  an  interest  coverage  ratio.  Among  the most restrictive
covenants contained in the 2000 Credit Agreement is the debt coverage ratio.

     On February 13, 2001, the 2000 Credit Agreement was amended to, among other
things,  permit  the  Company  to  finance  the  acquisition  of the Turner Road
Vintners  Assets  with  revolving loan borrowings, permit the refinancing of the
Original  Notes  (as  defined  below) and Series C Notes (as defined below) with
senior notes, and adjust the senior debt coverage ratio covenant.

     As  of  February 28, 2002, under the 2000 Credit Agreement, the Company had
outstanding  term  loans  of  $281.3 million bearing a weighted average interest
rate  of  3.9%  and  $50.0 million of revolving loans bearing a weighted average
interest  rate  of  3.1%. Amounts available to be drawn down under the Revolving
Credit  Loans,  after  deducting  undrawn letters of credit of $13.2 million and
$12.3  million, were $236.8 million and $287.7 million at February 28, 2002, and
February  28,  2001, respectively. The Company had average outstanding Revolving
Credit  Loans  of  $84.4 million, $47.6 million, and $73.0 million for the years
ended February 28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000, respectively.
The average interest rate on the Revolving Credit Loans was 4.8%, 7.8%, and 7.4%
for Fiscal 2002, Fiscal 2001, and Fiscal 2000, respectively.

     SENIOR NOTES -
     On  August  4,  1999, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of 8 5/8% Senior Notes due August 2006 (the "August 1999 Senior Notes").
The  net  proceeds of the offering ($196.0 million) were used to repay a portion
of  the  Company's borrowings under its senior credit facility.  Interest on the
August  1999  Senior Notes is payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 of
each  year,  beginning  February  1,  2000.  The  August  1999  Senior Notes are
redeemable  at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time.  The
August  1999  Senior  Notes are unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in
right of payment to all existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness of the
Company.  The  August  1999  Senior  Notes are guaranteed, on a senior basis, by
certain of the Company's significant operating subsidiaries.

     On  November  17,  1999,  the  Company  issued (pound) 75.0 million ($121.7
million  upon  issuance)  aggregate  principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Notes due
November  2009  (the  "Sterling Senior Notes"). The net proceeds of the offering
((pound)  73.0  million,  or $118.3 million) were used to repay a portion of the
Company's  British  pound  sterling borrowings under its senior credit facility.
Interest on the Sterling

                                       54
<PAGE>

Senior  Notes  is  payable  semiannually on May 15 and November 15 of each year,
beginning  on  May  15,  2000.  The  Sterling Senior Notes are redeemable at the
option  of  the  Company,  in whole or in part, at any time. The Sterling Senior
Notes  are  unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment to
all  existing  and  future  unsecured  senior  indebtedness  of the Company. The
Sterling  Senior  Notes  are  guaranteed,  on  a senior basis, by certain of the
Company's  significant  operating  subsidiaries.  In  March  2000,  the  Company
exchanged  (pound)  75.0  million  aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B
Senior Notes due in November 2009 (the "Sterling Series B Senior Notes") for all
of  the  Sterling  Senior Notes. The terms of the Sterling Series B Senior Notes
are  identical in all material respects to the Sterling Senior Notes. In October
2000,  the  Company exchanged (pound) 74.0 million aggregate principal amount of
Sterling  Series  C  Senior Notes (as defined below) for (pound) 74.0 million of
the Sterling Series B Notes. The terms of the Sterling Series C Senior Notes are
identical  in all material respects to the Sterling Series B Senior Notes. As of
February  28,  2002,  the  Company  had  outstanding  (pound)  1.0 million ($1.4
million) aggregate principal amount of Sterling Series B Senior Notes.

      On  May  15, 2000, the Company issued (pound) 80.0 million ($120.0 million
upon  issuance)  aggregate  principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due
November  2009 at an issuance price of (pound) 79.6 million ($119.4 million upon
issuance,  net  of $0.6 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest
rate  of  8.6%)  (the "Sterling Series C Senior Notes"). The net proceeds of the
offering  ((pound) 78.8 million, or $118.2 million) were used to repay a portion
of  the  Company's  British  pound  sterling  borrowings under its senior credit
facility. Interest on the Sterling Series C Senior Notes is payable semiannually
on  May  15  and  November  15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 2000. The
Sterling  Series  C Senior Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in
whole  or in part, at any time. The Sterling Series C Senior Notes are unsecured
senior  obligations  and  rank  equally  in right of payment to all existing and
future  unsecured  senior  indebtedness  of  the  Company. The Sterling Series C
Senior  Notes  are  guaranteed,  on  a senior basis, by certain of the Company's
significant  operating  subsidiaries.  As  of February 28, 2002, the Company had
outstanding  (pound)  154.0  million  ($218.3  million,  net  of  $0.5   million
unamortized  discount)  aggregate  principal  amount of Sterling Series C Senior
Notes.

     On February 21, 2001, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the "February 2001 Senior Notes").
The  net  proceeds  of the offering ($197.0 million) were used to partially fund
the  acquisition  of  the Turner Road Vintners Assets.  Interest on the February
2001  Senior  Notes is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each
year,  beginning August 15, 2001.  The February 2001 Senior Notes are redeemable
at  the  option  of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time.  The February
2001  Senior Notes are unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of
payment to all existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness of the Company.
The  February 2001 Senior Notes are guaranteed, on a senior basis, by certain of
the  Company's  significant  operating  subsidiaries.  In July 2001, the Company
exchanged  $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Series B Senior Notes
due  February  2008  (the  "February 2001 Series B Senior Notes") for all of the
February  2001  Senior  Notes.  The  terms  of the February 2001 Series B Senior
Notes are identical in all material respects to the February 2001 Senior Notes.

     SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES -
     On December 27, 1993, the Company issued $130.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of  8 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due in December 2003 (the "Original
Notes").  On  October  29,  1996,  the  Company  issued  $65.0 million aggregate
principal  amount  of  8 3/4% Series B Senior Subordinated Notes due in December
2003,  which  in  February  1997  were  exchanged  for  $65.0  million aggregate
principal  amount  of  8 3/4% Series C Senior Subordinated Notes due in December
2003 (the "Series C Notes"). In February 2002, the Company redeemed the Original
Notes  and  the  Series  C  Notes with the proceeds from the January 2002 Senior
Subordinated  Notes  (as defined below). In connection with this redemption, the
Company  incurred  an  extraordinary  loss of $2.6 million ($1.6 million, net of
income taxes) related to the write-off of the remaining deferred financing costs
and unamortized discount.

                                       55
<PAGE>

     On  March  4,  1999,  the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due March 2009 ("Senior Subordinated
Notes"). The net proceeds of the offering ($195.0 million) were used to fund the
acquisition  of the Black Velvet Assets and to pay the fees and expenses related
thereto  with  the  remainder  of  the  net  proceeds used for general corporate
purposes.  Interest  on the Senior Subordinated Notes is payable semiannually on
March  1  and  September 1 of each year, beginning September 1, 1999. The Senior
Subordinated  Notes  are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part,  at  any time on or after March 1, 2004. The Senior Subordinated Notes are
unsecured  and  subordinated  to  the  prior  payment  in  full  of  all  senior
indebtedness  of  the  Company,  which  includes the senior credit facility. The
Senior  Subordinated  Notes  are  guaranteed, on a senior subordinated basis, by
certain of the Company's significant operating subsidiaries.

     On  January 23, 2002, the Company issued $250.0 million aggregate principal
amount  of  8  1/8%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes due January 2012 ("January 2002
Senior  Subordinated  Notes"). The net proceeds of the offering ($247.2 million)
were  used  to  repay  the  Original Notes and the Series C Notes and to repay a
portion  of  the  outstanding  indebtedness  under  the  Company's senior credit
facility.  Interest  on  the  January  2002 Senior Subordinated Notes is payable
semiannually  on  January  15 and July 15 of each year, beginning July 15, 2002.
The  January  2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are redeemable at the option of the
Company,  in  whole  or  in  part, at any time on or after January 15, 2007. The
Company  may also redeem up to 35% of the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes
using  the  proceeds  of  certain  equity offerings completed before January 15,
2005.  The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are unsecured and subordinated
to  the  prior  payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which
includes  the senior credit facility. The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes
are  guaranteed,  on  a  senior  subordinated basis, by certain of the Company's
significant operating subsidiaries.

     TRUST INDENTURES -
     The  Company's  various  Trust  Indentures relating to the senior notes and
senior  subordinated notes contain certain covenants, including, but not limited
to:  (i)  limitation  on  indebtedness;  (ii) limitation on restricted payments;
(iii)  limitation  on  transactions  with  affiliates; (iv) limitation on senior
subordinated  indebtedness;  (v) limitation on liens; (vi) limitation on sale of
assets;  (vii)  limitation  on  issuance  of  guarantees  of  and  pledges   for
indebtedness;  (viii)  restriction  on  transfer  of  assets; (ix) limitation on
subsidiary  capital  stock;  (x)  limitation  on  dividends  and  other  payment
restrictions   affecting   subsidiaries;  and  (xi)  restrictions  on   mergers,
consolidations and the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the
Company  to another person.  The limitation on indebtedness covenant is governed
by a rolling four quarter fixed charge ratio requiring a specified minimum.

     DEBT PAYMENTS -
     Principal  payments  required  under  long-term debt obligations (excluding
unamortized  discount)  during  the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as
follows:

                     (in  thousands)
                     2003                  $     81,609
                     2004                        85,047
                     2005                       131,508
                     2006                         2,524
                     2007                       202,042
                     Thereafter                 872,554
                                           ------------
                                           $  1,375,284
                                           ============

                                       56
<PAGE>

8.   INCOME TAXES:

     The  Company provides for income taxes under the provisions of SFAS No. 109
"Accounting  for  Income  Taxes".  SFAS  No. 109 requires an asset and liability
based approach to accounting for income taxes.

     Deferred  income  taxes reflect the temporary difference between assets and
liabilities  recognized  for financial reporting and such amounts recognized for
tax purposes.

     The income tax provision consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         For the Years Ended
                             ------------------------------------------
                             February 28,   February 28,   February 29,
                                 2002           2001           2000
                             ------------   ------------   ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                          <C>            <C>            <C>
Current:
  Federal                    $     64,823   $     39,082   $     38,588
  State                            10,930          7,934          6,091
  Foreign                          12,556         11,202          8,405
                             ------------   ------------   ------------
    Total current                  88,309         58,218         53,084

Deferred:
  Federal                            (492)        (2,017)       (10,804)
  State                              (251)           402          2,874
  Foreign                           4,418          8,292          6,430
                             ------------   ------------   ------------
    Total deferred                  3,675          6,677         (1,500)
                             ------------   ------------   ------------

Income tax provision         $     91,984   $     64,895   $     51,584
                             ============   ============   ============
</TABLE>

     The foreign provision for income taxes is based on foreign pretax earnings.
Earnings  of  foreign  subsidiaries  would be subject to U.S. income taxation on
repatriation  to the U.S.  The Company's consolidated financial statements fully
provide for any related tax liability on amounts that may be repatriated.

     Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects
of  temporary  differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying
amounts  of  existing  assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and
are measured using enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income.

     Significant  components of deferred tax (liabilities) assets consist of the
following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        February 28,     February 28,
                                            2002             2001
                                        ------------     ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>              <C>
Depreciation and amortization           $   (174,485)    $   (140,864)
Effect of change in accounting method         (1,699)          (7,928)
Inventory reserves                            (2,232)          (5,791)
Insurance accruals                             5,415            4,964
Restructuring                                  1,004            4,292
Other accruals                                18,974           13,995
                                        ------------     ------------
                                        $   (153,023)    $   (131,332)
                                        ============     ============
</TABLE>

                                       57
<PAGE>

     A  reconciliation  of  the  total  tax  provision to the amount computed by
applying  the  statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate to income before provision
for income taxes is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          For the Years Ended
                                         ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  February 28,                February 28,                  February 29,
                                                      2002                        2001                          2000
                                         ---------------------------   ---------------------------   ---------------------------
                                                            % of                          % of                          % of
                                                           Pretax                        Pretax                        Pretax
                                            Amount         Income         Amount         Income         Amount         Income
                                         ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                      <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Income tax provision at statutory rate   $     80,486           35.0   $     56,783           35.0   $     45,136           35.0
State and local income taxes, net of
  federal income tax benefit                    6,942            3.0          5,022            3.1          3,077            2.4
Earnings of subsidiaries taxed at
  other than U.S. statutory rate                1,105            0.5            616            0.4          1,294            1.0
Miscellaneous items, net                        3,451            1.5          2,474            1.5          2,077            1.6
                                         ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------
                                         $     91,984           40.0   $     64,895           40.0   $     51,584           40.0
                                         ============   ============   ============   ============   ============   ============
</TABLE>

9.   OTHER LIABILITIES:

     The major components of other liabilities are as follows:

                                February 28,      February 28,
                                    2002               2001
                                ------------      ------------
(in  thousands)
Adverse grape contracts         $     30,119      $       -
Other                                 31,991            29,330
                                ------------      ------------
                                $     62,110      $     29,330
                                ============      ============

10.  PROFIT SHARING AND RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLANS:

     The Company's retirement and profit sharing plan, the Constellation Brands,
Inc.  401(k)  and  Profit  Sharing  Plan  (the "Plan"), covers substantially all
employees, excluding those employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
and  U.K.  employees.  The 401(k) portion of the Plan permits eligible employees
to  defer  a  portion of their compensation (as defined in the Plan) on a pretax
basis.  Participants  may  defer  up  to 12% of their compensation for the year,
subject  to  limitations of the Plan.  The Company makes a matching contribution
of  50% of the first 6% of compensation a participant defers.  The amount of the
Company's  contribution  under the profit sharing portion of the Plan is in such
discretionary  amount  as the Board of Directors may annually determine, subject
to  limitations  of  the  Plan.  Company  contributions were $10.5 million, $8.2
million,  and  $7.3 million, for the years ended February 28, 2002, February 28,
2001, and February 29, 2000, respectively.

     The  Company  has a defined benefit pension plan which covers substantially
all  of its U.K. employees, and its assets are held by a Trustee who administers
funds  separately  from  the  Company's  finances.  In addition, the Company has
defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its Canadian employees.

                                       58
<PAGE>

     Net periodic benefit cost included the following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                For the        For the
                                                                               Year Ended     Year Ended
                                                                              February 28,   February 29,
                                      For the Year Ended February 28, 2002        2001           2000
                                     --------------------------------------   ------------   ------------
                                         U.K.       Canadian       Total          Total          Total
                                     -----------   ----------   -----------   ------------   ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                  <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>
Service cost                         $     3,997   $      301   $     4,298   $      4,380   $      4,635
Interest cost                             10,588          961        11,549         11,254         11,205
Expected return on plan assets           (14,812)      (1,055)      (15,867)       (16,164)       (16,340)
Amortization of prior service cost          -               8             8           -              -
Recognized net actuarial gain               -             (33)          (33)           (95)          -
                                     -----------   ----------   -----------   ------------   ------------
Net periodic benefit (income) cost   $      (227)  $      182   $       (45)  $       (625)  $       (500)
                                     ===========   ==========   ===========   ============   ============
</TABLE>


     The  following  table summarizes the funded status of the Company's defined
benefit  pension  plans  and  the related amounts that are primarily included in
other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                February 28,
                                                                   February 28, 2002                2001
                                                         ------------------------------------   ------------
                                                            U.K.       Canadian       Total         Total
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------   ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>
Change in benefit obligation:
Benefit obligation as of March 1                         $  179,314   $   14,202   $  193,516   $    198,797
Service cost                                                  3,997          301        4,298          4,380
Interest cost                                                10,588          961       11,549         11,254
Plan participants' contributions                              1,420         -           1,420          1,436
Plan amendment                                                 -              39           39           -
Actuarial (gain) loss                                       (13,427)         642      (12,785)          (159)
Benefits paid                                                (6,461)        (813)      (7,274)        (5,513)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes                       (3,435)        (606)      (4,041)       (16,679)
                                                        -----------   ----------   ----------   ------------
Benefit obligation as of last day of February           $   171,996   $   14,726   $  186,722   $    193,516
                                                        ===========   ==========   ==========   ============

Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets as of March 1                 $   194,071   $   13,640   $  207,711   $    222,829
Actual return on plan assets                                (16,185)        (370)     (16,555)         6,926
Plan participants' contributions                              1,420         -           1,420          1,436
Employer contribution                                          -             554          554            573
Benefits paid                                                (6,461)        (813)      (7,274)        (5,513)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes                       (3,501)        (540)      (4,041)       (18,540)
                                                        -----------   ----------   ----------   ------------
Fair value of plan assets as of last day of February    $   169,344   $   12,471   $  181,815   $    207,711
                                                        ===========   ==========   ==========   ============

Funded status of the plan as of last day of February:
Funded status                                           $    (2,652)  $   (2,255)  $   (4,907)  $     14,195
Unrecognized prior service cost                                -              30           30           -
Unrecognized actuarial loss                                  28,046          620       28,666          9,423
                                                        -----------   ----------   ----------   ------------
Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost                          $    25,394   $   (1,605)  $   23,789   $     23,618
                                                        ===========   ==========   ==========   ============
</TABLE>

     The following table sets forth the principal assumptions used in developing
the benefit obligation and the net periodic pension expense:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              February 28, 2002              February 28, 2001
                                         ---------------------------    ---------------------------
                                             U.K.         Canadian          U.K.         Canadian
                                         -----------    ------------    -----------    ------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
Rate of return on plan assets               7.75%           8.00%          7.75%           8.50%
Discount rate                               6.00%           7.00%          6.00%           7.25%
Rate of compensation increase               3.75%            -             4.00%            -
</TABLE>

                                       59
<PAGE>

11.  POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS:

     The  Company  currently  sponsors  multiple  non-pension postretirement and
postemployment  benefit  plans  for  certain  of  its  Imported Beer and Spirits
segment employees.

     The status of the plans is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                              February 28,
                                                                February 28, 2002                 2001
                                                    ---------------------------------------   ------------
                                                      Non-U.S.        U.S.         Total          Total
                                                    ------------   ----------   -----------   ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>            <C>          <C>           <C>
Change in benefit obligation:
Benefit obligation as of March 1                    $        966   $    3,219   $     4,185   $      3,651
Service cost                                                  27          128           155            136
Interest cost                                                 80          225           305            261
Benefits paid                                                (34)        (159)         (193)          (182)
Plan amendment                                               184         -              184           -
Actuarial loss                                                75           12            87            366
Foreign currency exchange rate changes                       (47)        -              (47)           (47)
                                                    ------------   ----------   -----------   ------------
Benefit obligation as of the last day of February   $      1,251   $    3,425   $     4,676   $      4,185
                                                    ============   ==========   ===========   ============

Funded status as of the last day of February:
Funded status                                       $     (1,251)  $   (3,425)  $    (4,676)  $     (4,185)
Unrecognized prior service cost                              161          191           352            213
Unrecognized net loss                                        267           82           349            281
                                                    ------------   ----------   -----------   ------------
Accrued benefit liability                           $       (823)  $   (3,152)  $    (3,975)  $     (3,691)
                                                    ============   ==========   ===========   ============

Components of net periodic benefit cost for the
  twelve months ended the last day of February:
Service cost                                        $         27   $      128   $       155   $        136
Interest cost                                                 80          225           305            261
Amortization of prior service cost                            19           22            41             22
Recognized net actuarial loss                                  9         -                9           -
                                                    ------------   ----------   -----------   ------------
Net periodic benefit cost                           $        135   $      375   $       510   $        419
                                                    ============   ==========   ===========   ============
</TABLE>

     The following table sets forth the principal assumptions used in developing
the  benefit  obligation  and  the  net  periodic non-pension postretirement and
postemployment expense:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        February 28, 2002            February 28, 2001
                                    --------------------------   --------------------------
                                      Non-U.S.         U.S.        Non-U.S.         U.S.
                                    -----------     ----------   -----------     ----------
<S>                                 <C>             <C>          <C>             <C>
Discount rate                          6.50%           6.50%        7.00%           7.00%
Rate of compensation increase          4.00%            -           4.00%            -
</TABLE>

     At  February  28,  2002,  a 10.0% annual rate of increase and a 7.5% annual
rate  of increase in the per capita cost of covered health benefits were assumed
for  the  first year for the Non-U.S. and U.S. plans, respectively.  These rates
were  assumed  to  decrease  gradually  to 4.7% over seven years and 4.0% over 3
years for the Non-U.S. and U.S. plans, respectively, and to remain at this level
thereafter.  Assumed  healthcare  trend rates could have a significant effect on
the  amount  reported for health care plans.  A 1% change in assumed health care
cost trend rate would have the following effects:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       1% Increase    1% Decrease
                                                       -----------    -----------
(in thousands)
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>
Effect on total service and interest cost components   $        60    $       (52)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation            $       541    $      (468)
</TABLE>

                                       60
<PAGE>

12.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

     OPERATING LEASES -
     Future  payments  under  noncancelable  operating  leases having initial or
remaining  terms  of one year or more are as follows during the next five fiscal
years and thereafter:

                                 (in  thousands)
                                 2003          $  20,463
                                 2004             18,172
                                 2005             15,982
                                 2006             13,696
                                 2007             16,729
                                 Thereafter      100,037
                                               ---------
                                               $ 185,079
                                               =========

     Rental  expense  was  $24.0  million,  $19.6 million, and $17.4 million for
Fiscal 2002, Fiscal 2001, and Fiscal 2000, respectively.

     PURCHASE COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES -
     The  Company  has  agreements with suppliers to purchase various spirits of
which  certain agreements are denominated in British pound sterling and Canadian
dollars.  The  maximum  future  obligation  under  these  agreements, based upon
exchange  rates  at  February  28,  2002,  aggregate $19.1 million for contracts
expiring through December 2006.

     All  of the Company's imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant
to  exclusive distribution agreements from the suppliers of these products.  The
Company's agreement to distribute Corona Extra and its other Mexican beer brands
exclusively  throughout  25  primarily  western  U.S. states expires in December
2006,  with  automatic five year renewals thereafter, subject to compliance with
certain performance criteria and other terms under the agreement.  The remaining
agreements  expire   through   June  2008.  Prior  to  their  expiration,  these
agreements  may  be  terminated if the Company fails to meet certain performance
criteria.  At  February  28, 2002, the Company believes it is in compliance with
all  of  its material distribution agreements and, given the Company's long-term
relationships  with  its  suppliers,  the  Company  does  not believe that these
agreements will be terminated.

     In  connection  with  previous acquisitions as well as with the Turner Road
Vintners  Assets  acquisition  and the Corus Assets acquisition, the Company has
assumed  grape  purchase  contracts  with  certain  growers  and  suppliers.  In
addition,  the  Company  has  entered  into  other grape purchase contracts with
various growers and suppliers in the normal course of business.  Under the grape
purchase  contracts,  the  Company is committed to purchase all grape production
yielded   from  a   specified  number  of acres for a period of time from one to
sixteen years.  The actual tonnage and price of grapes that must be purchased by
the Company will vary each year depending on certain factors, including weather,
time  of  harvest,  overall market conditions and the agricultural practices and
location  of  the  growers  and  suppliers under contract. The Company purchased
$177.0  million  of  grapes  under these contracts during Fiscal 2002.  Based on
current production yields and published grape prices, the Company estimates that
the  aggregate  purchases  under  these contracts over the remaining term of the
contracts will be $785.3 million.

     In  connection  with  the  Turner  Road Vintners Assets acquisition and the
Corus  Assets  acquisition,  the Company established a reserve for the estimated
loss  on  firm  purchase commitments assumed at the time of acquisition of $52.6
million.

     The Company's aggregate obligations under bulk wine purchase contracts will
be  $25.0  million over the remaining term of the contracts which expire through
fiscal 2005.

                                       61
<PAGE>

     EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS -
     The Company has employment contracts with certain of its executive officers
and  certain  other management personnel with automatic one year renewals unless
terminated  by  either  party. These agreements provide for minimum salaries, as
adjusted  for  annual  increases,  and  may include incentive bonuses based upon
attainment  of specified management goals. In addition, these agreements provide
for  severance payments in the event of specified termination of employment. The
aggregate  commitment for future compensation and severance, excluding incentive
bonuses,  was $4.8 million as of February 28, 2002, of which none was accrued as
of February 28, 2002.

     EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS -
     Approximately  29%  of  the  Company's  full-time  employees are covered by
collective  bargaining  agreements  at  February  28,  2002. Agreements expiring
within one year cover approximately 10% of the Company's full-time employees.

     LEGAL MATTERS -
     The  Company  is  subject  to  litigation from time to time in the ordinary
course  of  business.  Although the amount of any liability with respect to such
litigation  cannot  be  determined,  in the opinion of management such liability
will  not  have  a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

13.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:

     COMMON STOCK -
     The Company has two classes of common stock: Class A Common Stock and Class
B  Convertible  Common  Stock.  Class  B  Convertible  Common  Stock  shares are
convertible  into  shares  of  Class A Common Stock on a one-to-one basis at any
time  at  the option of the holder.  Holders of Class B Convertible Common Stock
are  entitled  to  ten  votes  per  share.  Holders  of Class A Common Stock are
entitled to one vote per share and a cash dividend premium.  If the Company pays
a  cash  dividend  on  Class  B  Convertible Common Stock, each share of Class A
Common Stock will receive an amount at least ten percent greater than the amount
of  the  cash  dividend  per share paid on Class B Convertible Common Stock.  In
addition,  the  Board  of  Directors  may  declare and pay a dividend on Class A
Common Stock without paying any dividend on Class B Convertible Common Stock.

     At  February 28, 2002, there were 76,413,648 shares of Class A Common Stock
and  12,105,490  shares  of Class B Convertible Common Stock outstanding, net of
treasury stock.

     STOCK REPURCHASE AUTHORIZATION -
     In June 1998, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
up  to $100.0 million of its Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common
Stock.  The  Company  may  finance  such  purchases,  which will become treasury
shares,  through  cash  generated  from  operations or through the senior credit
facility.  No shares were repurchased during Fiscal 2002, Fiscal 2001 and Fiscal
2000.

     EQUITY OFFERINGS -
     During  March  2001,  the  Company completed a public offering of 8,740,000
shares  of  its  Class  A  Common  Stock, which was held as treasury stock. This
resulted  in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts
and  expenses,  of $139.4 million. The net proceeds were used to repay revolving
loan borrowings under the senior credit facility of which a portion was incurred
to partially finance the acquisition of the Turner Road Vintners Assets.

                                       62
<PAGE>

     During  October 2001, the Company sold 645,000 shares of its Class A Common
Stock, which was held as treasury stock, in connection with a public offering of
Class  A  Common  Stock  by stockholders of the Company. The net proceeds to the
Company,  after  deducting underwriting discounts, of $12.1 million were used to
repay borrowings under the senior credit facility.

     LONG-TERM STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN -
     Under  the  Company's  Long-Term  Stock  Incentive Plan, nonqualified stock
options,  stock  appreciation  rights,  restricted  stock  and other stock-based
awards  may  be  granted to employees, officers and directors of the Company. At
the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on July 20, 1999, stockholders
approved  the  amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Stock Incentive Plan to
increase  the  aggregate  number of shares of the Class A Common Stock available
for  awards  under  the  plan  from  16,000,000 shares to 28,000,000 shares. The
exercise  price,  vesting  period and term of nonqualified stock options granted
are  established  by  the  committee  administering  the plan (the "Committee").
Grants  of  stock  appreciation  rights,  restricted stock and other stock-based
awards may contain such vesting, terms, conditions and other requirements as the
Committee  may  establish.   During  Fiscal  2002  and  Fiscal  2001,  no  stock
appreciation  rights were granted. No restricted stock was granted during Fiscal
2002.  During Fiscal 2001, 15,100 shares of restricted Class A Common Stock were
granted at a weighted average grant date fair value of $13.31 per share.

     INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN -
     Under  the  Company's  Incentive Stock Option Plan, incentive stock options
may be granted to employees, including officers, of the Company.  Grants, in the
aggregate,  may  not  exceed  4,000,000  shares  of the Company's Class A Common
Stock.  The  exercise  price  of any incentive stock option may not be less than
the  fair  market  value  of  the  Company's Class A Common Stock on the date of
grant.  The  vesting  period  and  term  of  incentive stock options granted are
established  by  the  Committee.  The maximum term of incentive stock options is
ten years.

     A  summary  of  stock  option  activity under the Company's long-term stock
incentive plan and the incentive stock option plan is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  Weighted                      Weighted
                                    Shares         Average                       Average
                                    Under         Exercise       Options        Exercise
                                    Option          Price      Exercisable        Price
                                 ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------
<S>                              <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Balance, February 28, 1999          9,019,020   $       8.32      1,969,140   $       6.14
Options granted                     3,279,200   $      12.60
Options exercised                    (750,760)  $       4.48
Options forfeited/canceled           (594,460)  $      11.24
                                 ------------
Balance, February 29, 2000         10,953,000   $       9.70      2,949,820   $       6.76
Options granted                     3,860,400   $      13.01
Options exercised                  (1,859,136)  $       7.44
Options forfeited/canceled           (645,460)  $      11.91
                                 ------------
Balance, February 28, 2001         12,308,804   $      10.97      4,816,884   $       8.51
Options granted                     5,115,100   $      19.12
Options exercised                  (4,234,440)  $      11.20
Options forfeited/canceled           (711,656)  $      15.49
                                 ------------
Balance, February 28, 2002         12,477,808   $      14.12      7,565,199   $      12.31
                                 ============
</TABLE>

                                       63
<PAGE>

     The  following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at February 28, 2002:

                           Options Outstanding            Options Exercisable
                   -----------------------------------  ------------------------
                                 Weighted
                                  Average     Weighted                 Weighted
                                 Remaining     Average                  Average
    Range of         Number     Contractual   Exercise     Number      Exercise
 Exercise Prices   Outstanding     Life         Price    Exercisable     Price
-----------------  -----------  -----------  ---------- ------------  ----------
$  2.88 - $  7.50    1,729,116    4.0 years  $     5.82    1,701,916  $     5.84
$  7.81 - $ 14.89    6,108,392    7.3 years  $    12.66    4,228,633  $    12.51
$ 17.74 - $ 24.30    4,640,300    9.3 years  $    19.13    1,634,650  $    18.54
                   -----------                          ------------
                    12,477,808    7.6 years  $    14.12    7,565,199  $    12.31
                   ===========                          ============

     The  weighted  average  fair  value  of options granted during Fiscal 2002,
Fiscal  2001,  and  Fiscal  2000 was $8.99, $5.45, and $6.57, respectively.  The
fair  value of options is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing  model with the following weighted average assumptions: risk-free
interest rate of 4.7% for Fiscal 2002, 6.2% for Fiscal 2001, and 5.7% for Fiscal
2000;  volatility of 41.0% for Fiscal 2002, 38.8% for Fiscal 2001, and 40.0% for
Fiscal  2000;  and  expected option life of 6.0 years for Fiscal 2002, 4.7 years
for  Fiscal  2001, and 7.0 years for Fiscal 2000.  The dividend yield was 0% for
Fiscal  2002,  Fiscal 2001, and Fiscal 2000.  Forfeitures are recognized as they
occur.

     EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLANS -
     The Company has a stock purchase plan under which 4,500,000 shares of Class
A  Common  Stock  may be issued. Under the terms of the plan, eligible employees
may  purchase  shares  of  the  Company's  Class  A Common Stock through payroll
deductions.  The  purchase price is the lower of 85% of the fair market value of
the  stock  on the first or last day of the purchase period. During Fiscal 2002,
Fiscal  2001,  and  Fiscal  2000,  employees  purchased  120,674 shares, 147,776
shares, and 124,248 shares, respectively.

     The  weighted  average  fair value of purchase rights granted during Fiscal
2002,  Fiscal  2001,  and Fiscal 2000 was $5.59, $3.78, and $3.04, respectively.
The  fair  value  of purchase rights is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes  option-pricing   model  with   the  following  weighted   average
assumptions:  risk-free  interest  rate of 2.6% for Fiscal 2002, 5.7% for Fiscal
2001,  and  5.4% for Fiscal 2000; volatility of 33.2% for Fiscal 2002, 36.8% for
Fiscal  2001,  and  33.6%  for  Fiscal 2000; expected purchase right life of 0.5
years  for Fiscal 2002, Fiscal 2001, and Fiscal 2000.  The dividend yield was 0%
for Fiscal 2002, Fiscal 2001, and Fiscal 2000.

     The  Company  has a stock purchase plan under which 2,000,000 shares of the
Company's Class A Common Stock may be issued to eligible employees and directors
of  the  Company's  United  Kingdom  subsidiaries.  Under the terms of the plan,
participants  may  purchase shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock through
payroll  deductions.  The  purchase price may be no less than 80% of the closing
price  of  the  stock  on  the  day the purchase price is fixed by the committee
administering the plan.  As of February 28, 2002, no shares have been issued.

     PRO FORMA DISCLOSURE -
     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for  Stock  Issued  to Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for
its  plans.  The  Company adopted the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  123,   "Accounting   for   Stock-Based
Compensation,"  ("SFAS  No.  123").  Accordingly,  no  incremental  compensation
expense  has  been  recognized  for  its stock-based compensation plans. Had the
Company  recognized  the compensation cost based upon the fair value at the date
of  grant  for awards under its plans consistent with the

                                       64
<PAGE>

methodology prescribed by SFAS No. 123, net income and earnings per common share
would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                For the Years Ended
                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            February 28,            February 28,           February 29,
                                                2002                    2001                   2000
                                       ---------------------   ---------------------   ---------------------
                                           As         Pro          As         Pro          As         Pro
                                        Reported     Forma      Reported     Forma      Reported     Forma
                                       ----------  ---------   ----------  ---------   ----------  ---------
(in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                    <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Net income                             $  136,421  $ 123,894   $   97,342  $  86,784   $   77,375  $  71,474
                                       ==========  =========   ==========  =========   ==========  =========
Earnings per common share:
  Basic                                $     1.60  $    1.45   $     1.33  $    1.18   $     1.07  $    0.99
  Diluted                              $     1.55  $    1.41   $     1.30  $    1.16   $     1.05  $    0.97
</TABLE>

     The  pro forma effect on net income may not be representative of that to be
expected in future years.

14.  EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE:

     The following table presents earnings per common share as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  For the Years Ended
                                                       ------------------------------------------
                                                       February 28,   February 28,   February 29,
                                                           2002           2001           2000
                                                       ------------   ------------   ------------
(in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>            <C>
Income before extraordinary item                       $    137,975   $     97,342   $     77,375
Extraordinary item, net of income taxes                      (1,554)          -              -
                                                       ------------   ------------   ------------
Income applicable to common shares                     $    136,421   $     97,342   $     77,375
                                                       ============   ============   ============

Weighted average common shares outstanding - basic           85,505         73,446         72,216
Stock options                                                 2,320          1,305          1,780
                                                       ------------   ------------   ------------
Weighted average common shares outstanding - diluted         87,825         74,751         73,996
                                                       ============   ============   ============

Earnings per common share:
  Basic:
  Income before extraordinary item                     $       1.62   $       1.33   $       1.07
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes                     (0.02)          -              -
                                                       ------------   ------------   ------------
  Earnings per common share - basic                    $       1.60   $       1.33   $       1.07
                                                       ============   ============   ============

  Diluted:
  Income before extraordinary item                     $       1.57   $       1.30   $       1.05
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes                     (0.02)          -              -
                                                       ------------   ------------   ------------
  Earnings per common share - diluted                  $       1.55   $       1.30   $       1.05
                                                       ============   ============   ============
</TABLE>

     Stock  options  to purchase 2.2 million, 1.1 million and 0.3 million shares
of  Class A Common Stock at a weighted average price per share of $20.70, $13.93
and  $14.82  were outstanding during the years ended February 28, 2002, February
28,  2001,  and  February  29,  2000, respectively, but were not included in the
computation  of the diluted earnings per common share because the stock options'
exercise  price  was greater than the average market price of the Class A Common
Stock for the respective periods.

                                       65
<PAGE>

15.  ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS:

     Accumulated other comprehensive loss includes the following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  Foreign            Net           Accumulated
                                  Currency        Unrealized          Other
                                 Translation       Gains on       Comprehensive
                                 Adjustments      Derivatives         Loss
                                -------------    -------------    -------------
<S>                             <C>              <C>              <C>
Balance, February 28, 2001      $     (26,004)   $        -       $     (26,004)
Current-period change                  (9,239)              21           (9,218)
                                -------------    -------------    -------------
Balance, February 28, 2002      $     (35,243)   $          21    $     (35,222)
                                =============    =============    =============
</TABLE>

16.  RELATED PARTIES:

     Agustin  Francisco  Huneeus,  the  executive  in  charge  of  the Fine Wine
segment,  along  with  other  members  of  his immediate family, through various
family  owned entities (the "Huneeus Interests") engaged in certain transactions
with  the  Fine  Wine segment during each of the three years in the period ended
February  28,  2002.  The  Huneeus Interests engage the Fine Wine segment as the
exclusive  distributor  of  its Quintessa wines under a long-term contract; sell
grapes  to  the  Fine  Wine  segment  pursuant  to existing long-term contracts;
participate  as  partners  with  the  Fine  Wine  segment  in  the ownership and
operation  of  a  winery and vineyards in Chile; and render brand management and
other  consulting and advisory services in the United States and internationally
to  the  Fine  Wine  segment  and  the  Company.  Total  payments to the Huneeus
Interests  pursuant to these transactions and arrangements totaled $4.8 million,
$5.0  million,  and $3.2 million for the years ended February 28, 2002, February
28,  2001,  and  February  29,  2000,  respectively.  In addition, the Fine Wine
segment  performs  certain  wine  processing services for the Huneeus Interests.
Total  fees  received  from  the  Huneeus Interests to the Fine Wine segment for
these  services  totaled  $0.4  million,  $0.6 million, and $0.6 million for the
years  ended  February  28,  2002,  February  28,  2001,  and February 29, 2000,
respectively.  As of February 28, 2002 and 2001, the net amounts due to/from the
Huneeus Interests under these agreements are insignificant.

17.  SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK:

     Gross sales to the five largest customers of the Company represented 19.1%,
17.6%,  and  17.1%  of  the  Company's  gross  sales  for the fiscal years ended
February  28,  2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000, respectively.  No
single  customer  was responsible for greater than 10% of gross sales during the
fiscal  years ended February 28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000.
Accounts  receivable  from  the  Company's  largest  customer, Southern Wine and
Spirits,  represented  10.0%,  9.8%,  and  8.6%  of the Company's total accounts
receivable  as  of  February 28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000,
respectively.  Gross  sales to the Company's five largest customers are expected
to  continue  to represent a significant portion of the Company's revenues.  The
Company's  arrangements  with  certain  of  its  customers  may,  generally,  be
terminated  by  either  party  with  prior notice.  The Company performs ongoing
credit  evaluations  of its customers' financial position, and management of the
Company  is  of  the opinion that any risk of significant loss is reduced due to
the diversity of customers and geographic sales area.

18.  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL INFORMATION:

     The  following  information  sets forth the condensed consolidating balance
sheets  of  the  Company as of February 28, 2002, and February 28, 2001, and the
condensed  consolidating statements of operations and cash flows for each of the
three  years  in the period ended February 28, 2002, for the Company, the parent
company,  the combined subsidiaries of the Company which guarantee the Company's
senior  notes  and  senior  subordinated notes ("Subsidiary Guarantors") and the
combined

                                       66
<PAGE>

subsidiaries  of  the  Company  which  are  not Subsidiary Guarantors, primarily
Matthew  Clark,  which  is  included  in  the  U.K. Brands and Wholesale segment
("Subsidiary Nonguarantors"). The Subsidiary Guarantors are wholly owned and the
guarantees are full, unconditional, joint and several obligations of each of the
Subsidiary   Guarantors.  Separate  financial  statements  for  the   Subsidiary
Guarantors  of  the Company are not presented because the Company has determined
that  such  financial  statements  would  not  be  material  to  investors.  The
Subsidiary  Guarantors  comprise  all of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of
the  Company,  other  than Matthew Clark, the Company's Canadian subsidiary, and
certain  other  subsidiaries  which  individually,  and  in  the  aggregate, are
inconsequential.  The  accounting  policies  of the subsidiaries are the same as
those  described  in  Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. There
are  no  restrictions  on  the  ability of the Subsidiary Guarantors to transfer
funds to the Company in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Parent       Subsidiary      Subsidiary
                                                    Company      Guarantors     Nonguarantors     Eliminations    Consolidated
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
(in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>           <C>            <C>               <C>              <C>
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
-------------------------------------
at February 28, 2002
--------------------
Current assets:
  Cash and cash investments                       $       838   $      2,084   $         6,039   $         -      $       8,961
  Accounts receivable, net                             86,315        166,875           130,732             -            383,922
  Inventories, net                                     17,662        631,050           128,934              (60)        777,586
  Prepaid expenses and other
    current assets                                      7,148         40,364            13,267             -             60,779
  Intercompany (payable) receivable                   (63,694)          (655)           64,349             -               -
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
      Total current assets                             48,269        839,718           343,321              (60)      1,231,248
Property, plant and equipment, net                     36,834        354,431           187,499             -            578,764
Investments in subsidiaries                         2,403,915        558,263              -          (2,962,178)           -
Other assets                                           84,786        935,607           238,980             -          1,259,373
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
  Total assets                                    $ 2,573,804   $  2,688,019   $       769,800   $   (2,962,238)  $   3,069,385
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

Current liabilities:
  Notes payable                                   $    50,000   $       -      $         4,775   $         -      $      54,775
  Current maturities of long-term debt                 71,953          3,542             6,114             -             81,609
  Accounts payable                                     34,590         50,425            68,418             -            153,433
  Accrued excise taxes                                 12,244         37,033            10,961             -             60,238
  Other accrued expenses and liabilities               94,067         51,250            99,838             -            245,155
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
      Total current liabilities                       262,854        142,250           190,106             -            595,210
Long-term debt, less current maturities             1,278,834         14,237               112             -          1,293,183
Deferred income taxes                                  39,022         91,963            32,161             -            163,146
Other liabilities                                         476         38,174            23,460             -             62,110
Stockholders' equity:
  Class A and class B common stock                        939          6,434            64,867          (71,301)            939
  Additional paid-in capital                          431,216      1,220,550           436,466       (1,657,016)        431,216
  Retained earnings                                   592,279      1,176,931            56,930       (1,233,921)        592,219
  Accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss)                                       1,600         (2,520)          (34,302)            -            (35,222)
  Treasury stock and other                            (33,416)          -                 -                -            (33,416)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
      Total stockholders' equity                      992,618      2,401,395           523,961       (2,962,238)        955,736
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
  Total liabilities and
    stockholders' equity                          $ 2,573,804   $  2,688,019   $       769,800   $   (2,962,238)  $   3,069,385
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

                                       67
<PAGE>
                                                    Parent       Subsidiary      Subsidiary
                                                    Company      Guarantors     Nonguarantors     Eliminations    Consolidated
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
(in thousands)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
-------------------------------------
at February 28, 2001
--------------------
Current assets:
  Cash and cash investments                       $   142,104   $      3,239   $           329   $         -      $     145,672
  Accounts receivable, net                             80,299        116,784           117,179             -            314,262
  Inventories, net                                     31,845        515,274           122,965              (66)        670,018
  Prepaid expenses and other
    current assets                                      6,551         33,565            20,921             -             61,037
  Intercompany (payable) receivable                   (61,783)        54,169             7,614             -               -
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
      Total current assets                            199,016        723,031           269,008              (66)      1,190,989
Property, plant and equipment, net                     30,554        320,143           197,917             -            548,614
Investments in subsidiaries                         1,835,088        525,442              -          (2,360,530)           -
Other assets                                           87,764        434,782           250,020             -            772,566
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
  Total assets                                    $ 2,152,422   $  2,003,398   $       716,945   $   (2,360,596)  $   2,512,169
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

Current liabilities:
  Notes payable                                   $      -      $       -      $         4,184   $         -      $       4,184
  Current maturities of long-term debt                 49,218             70             4,888             -             54,176
  Accounts payable                                     24,003         36,824            53,966             -            114,793
  Accrued excise taxes                                  9,411         35,474            11,069             -             55,954
  Other accrued expenses and liabilities               87,385         21,624            89,044             -            198,053
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
      Total current liabilities                       170,017         93,992           163,151             -            427,160
Long-term debt, less current maturities             1,305,302            758             1,377             -          1,307,437
Deferred income taxes                                  33,232         71,619            27,123             -            131,974
Other liabilities                                         437          2,953            25,940             -             29,330
Stockholders' equity:
  Class A and class B common stock                        897          6,434            64,867          (71,301)            897
  Additional paid-in capital                          267,206        742,343           436,466       (1,178,809)        267,206
  Retained earnings                                   455,864      1,086,311            24,109       (1,110,486)        455,798
  Accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss)                                       1,096         (1,012)          (26,088)            -            (26,004)
  Treasury stock and other                            (81,629)          -                 -                -            (81,629)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
      Total stockholders' equity                      643,434      1,834,076           499,354       (2,360,596)        616,268
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
  Total liabilities and
    stockholders' equity                          $ 2,152,422   $  2,003,398   $       716,945   $   (2,360,596)  $   2,512,169
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
-------------------------------------------
for the Year Ended February 28, 2002
------------------------------------
Gross sales                                       $   916,826   $  2,010,573   $     1,105,126   $     (398,567)  $   3,633,958
  Less - excise taxes                                (147,446)      (408,532)         (257,477)            -           (813,455)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Net sales                                         769,380      1,602,041           847,649         (398,567)      2,820,503
Cost of product sold                                 (511,714)    (1,172,935)         (615,386)         398,573      (1,901,462)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Gross profit                                      257,666        429,106           232,263                6         919,041
Selling, general and administrative
  expenses                                           (175,062)      (223,509)         (177,989)            -           (576,560)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Operating income                                   82,604        205,597            54,274                6         342,481
Equity in earnings of
  subsidiary/joint venture                             90,620         34,488              -            (123,441)          1,667
Interest expense, net                                  (3,689)      (106,610)           (3,890)            -           (114,189)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Income before income taxes and
      extraordinary item                              169,535        133,475            50,384         (123,435)        229,959
Provision for income taxes                            (31,566)       (42,855)          (17,563)            -            (91,984)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Income before extraordinary item                  137,969         90,620            32,821         (123,435)        137,975
Extraordinary item, net of income taxes                (1,554)          -                 -                -             (1,554)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net income                                        $   136,415   $     90,620   $        32,821   $     (123,435)  $     136,421
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

                                       68
<PAGE>
                                                    Parent       Subsidiary      Subsidiary
                                                    Company      Guarantors     Nonguarantors     Eliminations    Consolidated
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
(in thousands)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
-------------------------------------------
for the Year Ended February 28, 2001
------------------------------------
Gross sales                                       $   741,668   $  1,759,368   $       979,509   $     (326,251)  $   3,154,294
  Less - excise taxes                                (131,997)      (396,773)         (228,839)            -           (757,609)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Net sales                                         609,671      1,362,595           750,670         (326,251)      2,396,685
Cost of product sold                                 (474,913)      (955,893)         (534,697)         326,273      (1,639,230)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Gross profit                                      134,758        406,702           215,973               22         757,455
Selling, general and administrative
  expenses                                           (140,757)      (150,241)         (195,589)            -           (486,587)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Operating income                                   (5,999)       256,461            20,384               22         270,868
Equity in earnings of subsidiary                      120,937         (3,825)             -            (117,112)           -
Interest expense, net                                 (27,840)       (76,076)           (4,715)            -           (108,631)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Income before income taxes                         87,098        176,560            15,669         (117,090)        162,237
Benefit from (provision for) income taxes              10,222        (55,623)          (19,494)            -            (64,895)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net income                                        $    97,320   $    120,937   $        (3,825)  $     (117,090)  $      97,342
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
-------------------------------------------
for the Year Ended February 29, 2000
------------------------------------
Gross sales                                       $   742,375   $  1,692,070   $     1,010,526   $     (356,272)  $   3,088,699
  Less - excise taxes                                (135,196)      (372,450)         (240,584)            -           (748,230)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Net sales                                         607,179      1,319,620           769,942         (356,272)      2,340,469
Cost of product sold                                 (444,993)      (983,026)         (546,174)         356,184      (1,618,009)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Gross profit                                      162,186        336,594           223,768              (88)        722,460
Selling, general and administrative
  expenses                                           (150,732)      (160,749)         (170,428)            -           (481,909)
Nonrecurring charges                                     -            (2,565)           (2,945)            -             (5,510)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Operating income                                   11,454        173,280            50,395              (88)        235,041
Equity in earnings of subsidiary                       81,776         22,974              -            (104,750)           -
Interest expense, net                                 (18,701)       (82,265)           (5,116)            -           (106,082)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
    Income before income taxes                         74,529        113,989            45,279         (104,838)        128,959
Benefit from (provision for) income taxes               2,934        (32,213)          (22,305)            -            (51,584)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net income                                        $    77,463   $     81,776   $        22,974   $     (104,838)  $      77,375
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash
-----------------------------------------
Flows for the Year Ended February 28, 2002
------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating
  activities                                      $   110,056   $     82,669   $        20,574   $         -      $     213,299

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of businesses, net of
    cash acquired                                    (478,574)         5,742              -                -           (472,832)
  Investment in joint venture                            -           (77,282)             -                -            (77,282)
  Purchases of property, plant and
    equipment                                         (11,544)       (43,812)          (15,792)            -            (71,148)
  Proceeds from sale of assets                           -            35,466               349             -             35,815
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net cash used in investing activities                (490,118)       (79,886)          (15,443)            -           (585,447)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

                                       69
<PAGE>
                                                    Parent       Subsidiary      Subsidiary
                                                    Company      Guarantors     Nonguarantors     Eliminations    Consolidated
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
(in thousands)
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term
    debt, net of discount                             250,000           -                2,539             -            252,539
  Proceeds from equity offerings,
    net of fees                                       151,479           -                 -                -            151,479
  Net proceeds from notes payable                      50,000           -                1,403             -             51,403
  Exercise of employee stock options                   45,027           -                 -                -             45,027
  Proceeds from employee stock
    purchases                                           1,986           -                 -                -              1,986
  Principal payments of long-term debt               (249,720)        (9,346)           (1,916)            -           (260,982)
  Payment of issuance costs of
    long-term debt                                     (4,537)          -                 -                -             (4,537)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net cash provided by (used in)
  financing activities                                244,235         (9,346)            2,026             -            236,915
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

Effect of exchange rate changes on
  cash and cash investments                            (5,439)         5,408            (1,447)            -             (1,478)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

Net (decrease) increase in cash
  and cash investments                               (141,266)        (1,155)            5,710             -           (136,711)
Cash and cash investments, beginning
  of year                                             142,104          3,239               329             -            145,672
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Cash and cash investments, end of year            $       838   $      2,084   $         6,039   $         -      $       8,961
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash
-----------------------------------------
Flows for the Year Ended February 28, 2001
------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by (used in)
  operating activities                            $    92,765   $     20,479   $        (9,469)  $         -      $     103,775

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of property, plant and
    equipment                                          (5,609)       (42,771)          (19,837)            -            (68,217)
  Purchases of businesses, net of
    cash acquired                                        -              -               (4,459)            -             (4,459)
  Other                                                   120            930               959             -              2,009
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net cash used in investing activities                  (5,489)       (41,841)          (23,337)            -            (70,667)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term
    debt                                              319,400           -                 -                -            319,400
  Exercise of employee stock options                   13,806           -                 -                -             13,806
  Proceeds from employee stock
    purchases                                           1,547           -                 -                -              1,547
  Principal payments of long-term debt               (220,888)           639            (1,659)            -           (221,908)
  Net repayments of notes payable                     (26,800)          (704)            3,889             -            (23,615)
  Payment of issuance costs of
    long-term debt                                     (5,794)          -                 -                -             (5,794)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net cash provided by (used in)
  financing activities                                 81,271            (65)            2,230             -             83,436
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

Effect of exchange rate changes on
  cash and cash investments                           (26,443)        24,435            (3,172)            -             (5,180)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
                                       70
<PAGE>
                                                    Parent       Subsidiary      Subsidiary
                                                    Company      Guarantors     Nonguarantors     Eliminations    Consolidated
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
(in thousands)
Net increase (decrease) in cash
  and cash investments                                142,104          3,008           (33,748)            -            111,364
Cash and cash investments, beginning
  of year                                                -               231            34,077             -             34,308
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Cash and cash investments, end of year            $   142,104   $      3,239   $           329   $         -      $     145,672
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash
-----------------------------------------
Flows for the Year Ended February 29, 2000
------------------------------------------
Net cash (used in) provided by
  operating activities                            $  (137,490)  $    245,989   $        39,556   $         -      $     148,055

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of property, plant and
    equipment                                          (5,163)       (42,220)          (10,364)            -            (57,747)
  Purchases of businesses, net of
    cash acquired                                        -          (453,117)              207             -           (452,910)
  Intercompany equity contributions                  (269,899)       269,899              -                -               -
  Other                                                13,000         (2,198)            4,175             -             14,977
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net cash used in investing activities                (262,062)      (227,636)           (5,982)            -           (495,680)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term
    debt                                            1,486,240           -                 -                -          1,486,240
  Exercise of employee stock options                    3,358           -                 -                -              3,358
  Proceeds from employee stock
    purchases                                           1,428           -                 -                -              1,428
  Principal payments of long-term debt             (1,017,850)       (25,550)          (16,552)            -         (1,059,952)
  Net repayments of notes payable                     (56,675)           400            (4,354)            -            (60,629)
  Payment of issuance costs of
    long-term debt                                    (14,888)          -                 -                -            (14,888)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Net cash provided by (used in)
  financing activities                                401,613        (25,150)          (20,906)            -            355,557
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

Effect of exchange rate changes on
  cash and cash investments                            (5,820)         5,850            (1,299)            -             (1,269)
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------

Net (decrease) increase in cash
  and cash investments                                 (3,759)          (947)           11,369             -              6,663
Cash and cash investments, beginning
  of year                                               3,759          1,178            22,708             -             27,645
                                                  -----------   ------------   ---------------   --------------   -------------
Cash and cash investments, end of year            $      -      $        231   $        34,077   $         -      $      34,308
                                                  ===========   ============   ===============   ==============   =============
</TABLE>

19.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION:

     The  Company  reports  its  operating results in five segments: Popular and
Premium  Wine (branded popular and premium wine and brandy, and other, primarily
grape  juice  concentrate  and  bulk wine); Imported Beer and Spirits (primarily
imported  beer  and distilled spirits); U.K. Brands and Wholesale (branded wine,
cider  and bottled water, and wholesale wine, cider, distilled spirits, beer and
soft drinks); Fine Wine (primarily branded super-premium and ultra-premium wine)
and  Corporate Operations and Other (primarily corporate related items). Segment
selection  was  based  upon  internal organizational structure, the way in which
these  operations  are managed and their performance evaluated by management and
the  Company's  Board  of  Directors,  the  availability  of  separate financial
results, and materiality considerations. The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in

                                       71
<PAGE>

Note 1 - Summary  of  Significant  Accounting Policies.  The  Company  evaluates
performance based on operating profits of the respective business units.

     Segment information is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              For the Years Ended
                                  --------------------------------------------
                                  February 28,    February 28,    February 29,
                                      2002            2001            2000
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
(in thousands)
<S>                               <C>             <C>             <C>
Popular and Premium Wine:
-------------------------
Net sales:
  Branded:
    External customers            $    781,662    $    603,948    $    623,796
    Intersegment                         9,669           6,451           5,524
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
    Total branded                      791,331         610,399         629,320
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
  Other:
    External customers                  57,718          64,799          86,814
    Intersegment                        13,751          16,562           1,146
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
    Total other                         71,469          81,361          87,960
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
Net sales                         $    862,800    $    691,760    $    717,280
Operating income                  $    104,781    $     50,390    $     47,305
Equity in earnings of joint
  venture                         $      1,667    $       -       $       -
Long-lived assets                 $    197,353    $    191,500    $    195,061
Investment in joint venture       $    110,520    $       -       $       -
Total assets                      $  1,116,515    $    650,554    $    642,836
Capital expenditures              $     22,523    $     18,043    $     20,788
Depreciation and amortization     $     30,902    $     23,223    $     21,098

Imported Beer and Spirits:
--------------------------
Net sales:
  Beer                            $    758,800    $    659,371    $    570,380
  Spirits                              288,568         285,743         267,762
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
Net sales                         $  1,047,368    $    945,114    $    838,142
Operating income                  $    178,805    $    167,680    $    142,931
Long-lived assets                 $     78,516    $     76,777    $     78,876
Total assets                      $    711,484    $    724,511    $    684,228
Capital expenditures              $      8,350    $      6,589    $      7,218
Depreciation and amortization     $     17,940    $     16,069    $     14,452

U.K. Brands and Wholesale:
--------------------------
Net sales:
  Branded:
    External customers            $    296,770    $    285,717    $    313,027
    Intersegment                           574           1,193              75
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
    Total branded                      297,344         286,910         313,102
  Wholesale                            495,549         404,209         416,644
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
Net sales                         $    792,893    $    691,119    $    729,746
Operating income                  $     47,270    $     48,961    $     48,473
Long-lived assets                 $    138,109    $    145,794    $    158,119
Total assets                      $    578,320    $    583,203    $    636,807
Capital expenditures              $     12,397    $     15,562    $     17,949
Depreciation and amortization     $     19,291    $     17,322    $     20,238

                                       72
<PAGE>
                                              For the Years Ended
                                  --------------------------------------------
                                  February 28,    February 28,    February 29,
                                      2002            2001            2000
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
(in thousands)
Fine Wine:
----------
Net sales:
  External customers              $    141,436    $     92,898    $     62,046
  Intersegment                             753             217              73
                                  ------------    ------------    ------------
Net sales                         $    142,189    $     93,115    $     62,119
Operating income                  $     39,169    $     24,495    $     12,708
Long-lived assets                 $    156,790    $    130,375    $    106,956
Total assets                      $    628,454    $    394,740    $    357,999
Capital expenditures              $     23,696    $     27,780    $     10,741
Depreciation and amortization     $     12,850    $     10,296    $      6,028

Corporate Operations and Other:
-------------------------------
Net sales                         $       -       $       -       $       -
Operating loss                    $    (27,544)   $    (20,658)   $    (16,376)
Long-lived assets                 $      7,996    $      4,168    $      3,959
Total assets                      $     34,612    $    159,161    $     26,921
Capital expenditures              $      4,182    $        243    $      1,051
Depreciation and amortization     $      4,421    $      3,473    $      2,907

Intersegment eliminations:
--------------------------
Net sales                         $    (24,747)   $    (24,423)   $     (6,818)

Consolidated:
-------------
Net sales                         $  2,820,503    $  2,396,685    $  2,340,469
Operating income                  $    342,481    $    270,868    $    235,041
Equity in earnings of joint
  venture                         $      1,667    $       -       $       -
Long-lived assets                 $    578,764    $    548,614    $    542,971
Investment in joint venture       $    110,520    $       -       $       -
Total assets                      $  3,069,385    $  2,512,169    $  2,348,791
Capital expenditures              $     71,148    $     68,217    $     57,747
Depreciation and amortization     $     85,404    $     70,383    $     64,723
</TABLE>

     The  Company's  areas  of  operations are principally in the United States.
Operations  outside  the  United States consist of the U.K. Brands and Wholesale
segment's operations, which are primarily in the United Kingdom. No other single
foreign  country   or  geographic  area  is  significant  to  the   consolidated
operations.

20.  NONRECURRING CHARGES:

     During  Fiscal  2000,  the  Company  incurred  nonrecurring charges of $5.5
million  related  to  the closure of a cider production facility within the U.K.
Brands  and Wholesale operating segment in the United Kingdom ($2.9 million) and
to  a  management  reorganization  within the Popular and Premium Wine operating
segment ($2.6 million).

21.  ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:

     During  2000  and  2001,  the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") addressed
various  issues  related  to  the  income  statement  classification  of certain
promotional  payments,  including  EITF  Issue  No.  00-14  ("EITF  No. 00-14"),
"Accounting  for  Certain  Sales  Incentives,"  EITF  Issue No. 00-22 ("EITF No.
00-22"),  "Accounting  for 'Points' and Certain Other Time-Based or Volume-Based
Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to Be Delivered
in the Future," and EITF Issue No. 00-25

                                       73
<PAGE>

("EITF  No.  00-25"), "Vendor Income Statement Characterization of Consideration
Paid  to  a  Reseller  of  the  Vendor's  Products."  In November 2001, the EITF
codified  EITF  No.  00-14,  EITF  No. 00-22, and EITF No. 00-25 as part of EITF
Issue  No.  01-09  ("EITF  No. 01-09"), "Accounting for Consideration Given by a
Vendor  to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor's Products)." EITF No.
01-09 addresses the recognition, measurement and income statement classification
of  consideration  given by a vendor to a customer (including both a reseller of
the  vendor's products and an entity that purchases the vendor's products from a
reseller).  EITF   No.  01-09,  among   other  things,  requires   that  certain
consideration given by a vendor to a customer be characterized as a reduction of
revenue  when recognized in the vendor's income statement. The Company currently
reports  such costs referred to in EITF No. 00-14 and EITF No. 00-25 as selling,
general  and  administrative expenses. The Company is required to adopt EITF No.
01-09 in its financial statements beginning March 1, 2002. Upon adoption of EITF
No.  01-09,  financial  statements  for  prior periods presented for comparative
purposes will be reclassified to comply with the requirements of EITF No. 01-09.
For  the  fiscal  years ended February 28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February
29,  2000,  net  sales  will  be  reduced by $222.4 million, $176.2 million, and
$182.5  million,  respectively,  cost  of  product  sold  will increase by $10.1
million,  $7.8 million, and $8.8 million, respectively, and selling, general and
administrative  expenses  will  decrease  by $232.5 million, $184.0 million, and
$191.3  million,  respectively.  This reclassification will not effect operating
income or net income.

     In  July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  141   ("SFAS   No.  141"),   "Business
Combinations."  SFAS  No.  141  addresses financial accounting and reporting for
business  combinations  requiring  all business combinations to be accounted for
using  one  method,  the  purchase  method. In addition, SFAS No. 141 supersedes
Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 16, "Business Combinations." SFAS No.
141  is effective immediately for all business combinations initiated after June
30, 2001, as well as for all business combinations accounted for by the purchase
method  for which the date of acquisition is July 1, 2001, or later. The Company
is  required  to  adopt SFAS No. 141 for all business combinations for which the
acquisition  date  was  before July 1, 2001, for fiscal years beginning March 1,
2002.  The  adoption  of the applicable provisions of SFAS No. 141 has not had a
material impact on the Company's financial statements. The Company believes that
the  adoption  of  the  remaining  provisions  of  SFAS  No. 141 will not have a
material  impact  on  its  financial  statements.  On March 1, 2002, the Company
reclassified  $59.9 million of previously identified separable intangible assets
into goodwill in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 141.

     In  July  2001,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  also  issued
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS No. 142"), "Goodwill
and  Other  Intangible  Assets." SFAS No. 142 addresses financial accounting and
reporting  for  acquired  goodwill  and  other  intangible assets and supersedes
Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 17, "Intangible Assets." Under SFAS No.
142, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized but
are  reviewed at least annually for impairment. Separable intangible assets that
are  not  deemed  to  have an indefinite life will continue to be amortized over
their  useful lives. The Company is required to apply the provisions of SFAS No.
142  for  all goodwill and intangible assets acquired prior to July 1, 2001, for
fiscal  years  beginning  March  1,  2002.  For  goodwill  and intangible assets
acquired  after  June  30,  2001,  these  assets  are subject immediately to the
nonamortization  and  amortization  provisions  of  SFAS  No. 142. The Company's
assessment  of  the financial impact of SFAS No. 142 on its financial statements
is  that  $27.3  million  of amortization expense of existing goodwill and other
intangible  assets  for  the  fiscal  year ending February 28, 2002, will not be
incurred  in  subsequent  fiscal  years.   The  required  transition  impairment
evaluations are not expected to result in impairment charges.

                                       74
<PAGE>

     In  August  2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  143 ("SFAS No. 143"), "Accounting for
Asset  Retirement  Obligations." SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting and
reporting  for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived
assets  and  the  associated  retirement costs. The Company is required to adopt
SFAS  No. 143 for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2003. The Company is currently
assessing the financial impact of SFAS No. 143 on its financial statements.

     In  October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ("SFAS No. 144"), "Accounting for the
Impairment  or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."  SFAS No. 144 addresses financial
accounting  and  reporting  for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets.
SFAS  No.  144  supersedes  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be  Disposed  Of,"  and  the  accounting  and reporting provisions of Accounting
Principles  Board Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations-Reporting
the  Effects  of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual
and  Infrequently  Occurring  Events  and  Transactions,"  for the disposal of a
segment  of  a business (as previously defined in that Opinion).  The Company is
required  to  adopt  SFAS No. 144 for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2002.  The
Company  believes  the financial impact of  SFAS No. 144 will not be material on
its financial statements.

     In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  145 ("SFAS No. 145"), "Rescission of FASB
Statements  No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections."  SFAS No. 145 rescinds Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No.  4 ("SFAS No. 4"), "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt,"
Statement  of  Financial Accounting Standards No. 44, "Accounting for Intangible
Assets  of  Motor Carriers," and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
64,  "Extinguishments  of  Debt  Made  to Satisfy Sinking-Fund Requirements." In
addition,  SFAS  No.  145 amends Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
13,  "Accounting  for  Leases,"  to  eliminate an inconsistency between required
accounting  for  sale-leaseback  transactions  and  the  required accounting for
certain  lease  modifications  that  have  economic  effects that are similar to
sale-leaseback  transactions.  Lastly,  SFAS  No. 145 also amends other existing
authoritative  pronouncements  to  make  various  technical corrections, clarify
meanings,  or describe their applicability under changed conditions. The Company
is  required to adopt the provisions related to the rescission of SFAS No. 4 for
fiscal  years  beginning March 1, 2003. All other provisions of SFAS No. 145 are
effective  for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2002. The Company does not expect
the  adoption  of  SFAS  No.  145  to  have  a  material impact on its financial
statements.  However,  it  will  result  in a reclassification of the previously
reported  extraordinary  item,  net  of  income  taxes, to increase nonoperating
expense  ($2.6  million)  and  to  decrease the provision for income taxes ($1.0
million).

                                       75
<PAGE>

22.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED):

     A summary of selected quarterly financial information is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    QUARTER ENDED
                                             ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                May 31,       August 31,    November 30,   February 28,
                Fiscal 2002                       2001          2001            2001           2002        Full Year
-------------------------------------------  -------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   -----------
(in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                          <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Net sales                                    $     642,110   $    740,775   $    764,074   $    673,544   $ 2,820,503
Gross profit                                 $     201,950   $    237,676   $    258,408   $    221,007   $   919,041
Income before extraordinary item             $      23,843   $     35,934   $     49,643   $     28,555   $   137,975
Extraordinary item, net of income taxes (1)  $        -      $       -      $       -      $     (1,554)  $    (1,554)
Net income                                   $      23,843   $     35,934   $     49,643   $     27,001   $   136,421

Earnings per common share: (2)
  Basic:
  Income before extraordinary item           $        0.29   $       0.42   $       0.57   $       0.33   $      1.62
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes             -              -              -             (0.02)        (0.02)
                                             -------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   -----------
  Earnings per common share - basic          $        0.29   $       0.42   $       0.57   $       0.31   $      1.60
                                             =============   ============   ============   ============   ===========

  Diluted:
  Income before extraordinary item           $         0.28  $       0.41   $       0.55   $       0.32   $      1.57
  Extraordinary item, net of income taxes              -             -              -             (0.02)        (0.02)
                                             --------------  ------------   ------------   ------------   -----------
  Earnings per common share - diluted        $         0.28  $       0.41   $       0.55   $       0.30   $      1.55
                                             ==============  ============   ============   ============   ===========

                                                                    QUARTER ENDED
                                             ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                 May 31,      August 31,    November 30,   February 28,
                Fiscal 2001                       2000           2000          2000           2001         Full Year
-------------------------------------------  -------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   -----------
(in thousands, except per share data)
Net sales                                    $     585,580   $    637,490   $    629,577   $    544,038   $ 2,396,685
Gross profit                                 $     183,873   $    200,639   $    208,053   $    164,890   $   757,455
Net income                                   $      17,902   $     26,110   $     34,953   $     18,377   $    97,342
Earnings per common share: (2)
  Basic                                      $        0.25   $       0.36   $       0.48   $       0.25   $      1.33
  Diluted                                    $        0.24   $       0.35   $       0.47   $       0.24   $      1.30

</TABLE>


(1)  Represents  the write-off of capitalized fees related to the extinguishment
of the Company's Original Notes and Series C Notes.

(2)  The  sum  of  the  quarterly  earnings  per common share in Fiscal 2002 and
Fiscal  2001  may  not  equal the total computed for the respective years as the
earnings  per  common  share are computed independently for each of the quarters
presented and for the full year.

                                       76
<PAGE>

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
-------   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
          --------------------

     Information  required  by  this  item  has  been previously reported in the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 4, 2002.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
--------  --------------------------------------------------

     The information required by this Item (except for the information regarding
executive  officers  required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K which is included in
Part  I  hereof  in  accordance  with  General Instruction G(3)) is incorporated
herein  by reference to the Company's proxy statement to be issued in connection
with  the  Annual  Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on July 23,
2002, under those sections of the proxy statement titled "Election of Directors"
and  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance", which proxy
statement  will  be  filed within 120 days after the end of the Company's fiscal
year.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
--------  ----------------------

     The  information  required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to  the  Company's  proxy  statement  to be issued in connection with the Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders of the Company to be held on July 23, 2002, under that
section  of the proxy statement titled "Executive Compensation" and that caption
titled  "Director  Compensation"  under  "Election  of  Directors",  which proxy
statement  will  be  filed within 120 days after the end of the Company's fiscal
year.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND  MANAGEMENT  AND
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
          ---------------------------

     The  information  required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to  the  Company's  proxy  statement  to be issued in connection with the Annual
Meeting  of Stockholders of the Company to be held on July 23, 2002, under those
sections  of  the  proxy  statement  titled  "Beneficial  Ownership"  and "Stock
Ownership of Management", and under Proposal No. 3 of the proxy statement, which
proxy  statement  will  be  filed within 120 days after the end of the Company's
fiscal year.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
--------  ----------------------------------------------

     The  information  required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to  the  Company's  proxy  statement  to be issued in connection with the Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders of the Company to be held on July 23, 2002, under that
section  of  the  proxy  statement  titled "Executive Compensation", which proxy
statement  will  be  filed within 120 days after the end of the Company's fiscal
year.

                                       77
<PAGE>
                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
--------  ----------------------------------------------------------------

(a)  1.   Financial  Statements

          The  following  consolidated  financial  statements of the Company are
          submitted herewith:

              Report of Independent Public Accountants

              Consolidated  Balance Sheets - February 28, 2002, and February 28,
              2001

              Consolidated  Statements  of Income  for the years ended  February
              28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000

              Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the
              years ended February 28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29,
              2000

              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended February
              28, 2002, February 28, 2001, and February 29, 2000

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     2.   Financial Statement Schedules

              The  following  consolidated  financial  information  is submitted
              herewith:

              Selected Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited)

All  other  schedules  are  not submitted because they are not applicable or not
required under Regulation S-X or because the required information is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto.

Individual  financial statements of the Registrant have been omitted because the
Registrant  is  primarily an operating company and no subsidiary included in the
consolidated  financial  statements   has   minority  equity  interests   and/or
noncurrent  indebtedness,  not  guaranteed by the Registrant, in excess of 5% of
total consolidated assets.

     3.   Exhibits  required  to  be  filed  by  Item  601  of   Regulation  S-K

          For the exhibits that are filed  herewith  or  incorporated  herein by
          reference,  see  the  Index  to  Exhibits  located on  Page 81 of this
          Report.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     The  following  Reports  on  Form  8-K  were  filed by the Company with the
     Securities  and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter of the fiscal
     year ended February 28, 2002:

     (i)      Form 8-K dated January 3, 2002. This Form 8-K reported information
              under Item 5 and included (i) the Company's Condensed Consolidated
              Balance Sheets as of November 30, 2001 and February 28, 2001; (ii)
              the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of  Income for the
              three months ended  November  30,  2001 and November 30, 2000; and
              (iii)

                                       78
<PAGE>

              the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of  Income for the
              the nine months ended November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000.

     (ii)     Form  8-K  dated   January  17,  2002.   This  Form  8-K  reported
              information under Item 7.


     (iii)    Form  8-K  dated   February  5,  2002.   This  Form  8-K  reported
              information under Item 5.

                                       79
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

Dated:  May  20,  2002                 CONSTELLATION BRANDS, INC.


                                       By: /s/ Richard Sands
                                           -----------------------------------
                                           Richard Sands, Chairman of the
                                           Board, President and Chief
                                           Executive Officer

     Pursuant  to  the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons  on  behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



/s/ Richard Sands                          /s/ Thomas S. Summer
--------------------------------           -----------------------------------
Richard Sands, Chairman of the             Thomas S. Summer, Executive Vice
Board, President, and Chief                President and Chief Financial
Executive Officer (Principal               Officer (Principal Financial
Executive Officer)                         Officer and Principal Accounting
Dated: May 20, 2002                        Officer)
                                           Dated: May 20, 2002


/s/ Robert Sands                           /s/ George Bresler
--------------------------------           -----------------------------------
Robert Sands, Director                     George Bresler, Director
Dated: May 20, 2002                        Dated: May 20, 2002


/s/ James A. Locke III                     /s/ Thomas C. McDermott
--------------------------------           -----------------------------------
James A. Locke III, Director               Thomas C. McDermott, Director
Dated: May 20, 2002                        Dated: May 20, 2002


/s/ Paul L. Smith                          /s/ Jeananne K. Hauswald
--------------------------------           -----------------------------------
Paul L. Smith, Director                    Jeananne K. Hauswald, Director
Dated: May 20, 2002                        Dated: May 20, 2002

                                       80
<PAGE>

                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit  No.
------------

2.1       Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of February 21, 1999 by and among
          Diageo  Inc.,  UDV  Canada Inc., United Distillers Canada Inc. and the
          Company  (filed  as  Exhibit 2 to the Company's Current Report on Form
          8-K dated April 9, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

2.2       Stock  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  April 21, 1999, between Franciscan
          Vineyards,  Inc.,   Agustin  Huneeus,    Agustin   Francisco  Huneeus,
          Jean-Michel    Valette,    Heidrun      Eckes-Chantre    Und    Kinder
          Beteiligungsverwaltung   II,  GbR,  Peter   Eugen  Eckes  Und   Kinder
          Beteiligungsverwaltung   II,  GbR,  Harald  Eckes-Chantre,   Christina
          Eckes-Chantre,  Petra  Eckes-Chantre and Canandaigua Brands, Inc. (now
          known  as  Constellation  Brands,  Inc.)  (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
          Company's  Current  Report  on   Form  8-K  dated  June  4,  1999  and
          incorporated herein by reference).

2.3       Stock Purchase Agreement by and between Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
          (a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the Company) and Moet Hennessy, Inc.
          dated  April  1, 1999 (filed as Exhibit 2.3 to the Company's Quarterly
          Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 1999 and
          incorporated herein by reference).

2.4       Purchase  Agreement  dated  as  of  January  30,  2001,  by  and among
          Sebastiani  Vineyards,  Inc.,   Tuolomne  River  Vintners  Group   and
          Canandaigua  Wine  Company,  Inc.  (a  wholly-owned  subsidiary of the
          Company)  (filed as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
          10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended February 28, 2001 and incorporated
          herein by reference).

2.5       First  Amendment  to  Purchase Agreement and Pro Forma Closing Balance
          Sheet,  dated  as of March 5, 2001, by and among Sebastiani Vineyards,
          Inc., Tuolomne River Vintners Group and Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
          (filed  as  Exhibit 2.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2001 and incorporated herein
          by reference).

2.6       Second  Amendment  to Purchase Agreement, date as of March 5, 2001, by
          and  among  Sebastiani  Vineyards, Inc., Tuolomne River Vintners Group
          and  Canandaigua  Wine  Company,  Inc.  (filed  as  Exhibit 2.6 to the
          Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
          November 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).

2.7       Agreement  and Plan of Merger by and among Constellation Brands, Inc.,
          VVV  Acquisition  Corp.  and Ravenswood Winery, Inc. dated as of April
          10,  2001  (filed  as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
          Form  10-Q  for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2001 and incorporated
          herein by reference).

3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Exhibit
          3.1  to  the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
          quarter ended August 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

3.2       By-Laws  of  the  Company  (filed  as  Exhibit  3.2  to  the Company's
          Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31,
          2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.1       Indenture,  dated  as  of  February  25,  1999,  among the Company, as
          issuer, certain principal subsidiaries, as Guarantors, and BNY Midwest
          Trust Company (successor Trustee to Harris Trust and Savings Bank), as
          Trustee (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form
          8-K dated February 25, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

                                       81
<PAGE>

4.2       Supplemental  Indenture  No.  1,   with  respect  to  8  1/2%   Senior
          Subordinated  Notes  due  2009,  dated as of February 25, 1999, by and
          among  the  Company,  as  Issuer,  certain  principal subsidiaries, as
          Guarantors, and BNY Midwest Trust Company (successor Trustee to Harris
          Trust  and  Savings  Bank),  as  Trustee (filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the
          Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  dated February 25, 1999 and
          incorporated herein by reference).

4.3       Supplemental  Indenture No. 2, with respect to 8 5/8% Senior Notes due
          2006, dated as of August 4, 1999, by and among the Company, as Issuer,
          certain  principal  subsidiaries, as Guarantors, and BNY Midwest Trust
          Company  (successor  Trustee  to  Harris  Trust  and Savings Bank), as
          Trustee  (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form
          8-K dated July 28, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.4       Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of August 6, 1999, by and among
          the Company, Canandaigua B.V., Barton Canada, Ltd., Simi Winery, Inc.,
          Franciscan  Vineyards,  Inc.,  Allberry, Inc., M.J. Lewis Corp., Cloud
          Peak Corporation, Mt. Veeder Corporation, SCV-EPI Vineyards, Inc., and
          BNY  Midwest  Trust  Company  (successor  Trustee  to Harris Trust and
          Savings  Bank),  as  Trustee  (filed  as Exhibit 4.20 to the Company's
          Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31,
          1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.5       Supplemental  Indenture No. 4, with respect to 8 1/2% Senior Notes due
          2009,  dated  as of May 15, 2000, by and among the Company, as Issuer,
          certain  principal  subsidiaries, as Guarantors, and BNY Midwest Trust
          Company  (successor  Trustee  to  Harris  Trust  and Savings Bank), as
          Trustee  (filed as Exhibit 4.17 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
          10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended February 29, 2000 and incorporated
          herein by reference).

4.6       Supplemental  Indenture  No. 5, dated as of September 14, 2000, by and
          among  the  Company,  as  Issuer,  certain  principal subsidiaries, as
          Guarantors,  and  BNY  Midwest Trust Company (successor Trustee to The
          Bank  of  New York), as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
          Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31,
          2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.7       Supplemental  Indenture  No. 6, dated as of August 21, 2001, among the
          Company,  Ravenswood  Winery,  Inc.  and  BNY  Midwest  Trust  Company
          (successor  trustee  to  Harris Trust and Savings Bank and The Bank of
          New  York,  as  applicable),  as  Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.6 to the
          Company's  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Pre-effective Amendment
          No.  1)  (Registration  No.  333-63480)  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference).

4.8       Supplemental  Indenture  No.  7,  dated as of January 23, 2002, by and
          among  the  Company,  as  Issuer,  certain  principal subsidiaries, as
          Guarantors,  and  BNY  Midwest  Trust  Company,  as  Trustee (filed as
          Exhibit  4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January
          17, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.9       Credit  Agreement,  dated  as of October 6, 1999, between the Company,
          certain  principal  subsidiaries, and certain banks for which JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank  (formerly  known  as  The  Chase  Manhattan Bank) acts as
          Administrative  Agent,  The  Bank  of  Nova Scotia acts as Syndication
          Agent,  and  Credit Suisse First Boston and Citicorp USA, Inc. acts as
          Co-Documentation  Agents  (filed  as  Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's
          Quarterly  Report  on  Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November
          30, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.10      Amendment  No.  1  to Credit Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2001,
          between  the  Company,  certain  principal  subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for certain banks (filed as Exhibit 4.20 to the
          Company's  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal year ended
          February 28, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).

                                       82
<PAGE>

4.11      Amendment  No.  2  to  the  Credit Agreement, dated as of May 16, 2001
          between  the  Company,  certain  principal  subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for  certain banks (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
          Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
          May 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.12      Guarantee  Assumption  Agreement,  dated   as  of  July  2,  2001,  by
          Ravenswood  Winery,  Inc.,  in  favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly
          known  as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as administrative agent, pursuant
          to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 6, 1999, as amended (filed
          as  Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
          fiscal  quarter  ended  August  31,  2001  and  incorporated herein by
          reference).

4.13      Amendment No. 3 to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2001
          between  the  Company,  certain  principal  subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for  certain banks (filed as Exhibit 4.7 to the
          Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
          August 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.14      Amendment  No. 4 to the Credit Agreement, dated as of January 15, 2002
          between  the  Company,  certain  principal  subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for  certain  banks  (filed  herewith).

4.15      Indenture,  with  respect to 8 1/2% Senior Notes due 2009, dated as of
          November  17,  1999,  among  the Company, as Issuer, certain principal
          subsidiaries,  as Guarantors, and BNY Midwest Trust Company (successor
          to Harris Trust and Savings Bank), as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to
          the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 (Registration No.
          333-94369) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.16      Supplemental  Indenture  No. 1, dated as of August 21, 2001, among the
          Company,  Ravenswood  Winery,  Inc.  and  BNY  Midwest  Trust  Company
          (successor  to  Harris  Trust  and Savings Bank), as Trustee (filed as
          Exhibit  4.4  to  the  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
          fiscal  quarter  ended  August  31,  2001  and  incorporated herein by
          reference).

4.17      Indenture,  with  respect  to  8%  Senior  Notes due 2008, dated as of
          February  21,  2001,  by  and  among  the  Company, as Issuer, certain
          principal  subsidiaries,  as Guarantors and BNY Midwest Trust Company,
          as  Trustee  (filed  as  Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's Registration
          Statement  filed   on   Form  S-4  (Registration  No.  333-60720)  and
          incorporated herein by reference).

4.18      Supplemental  Indenture  No. 1, dated as of August 21, 2001, among the
          Company,  Ravenswood  Winery,  Inc.  and BNY Midwest Trust Company, as
          Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.7 to the Company's Pre-effective Amendment
          No.  1  to  its  Registration  Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No.
          333-63480) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.1      Barton  Incorporated  Management Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.6
          to  the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.2      Marvin  Sands  Split Dollar Insurance Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.9
          to  the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.3      Employment Agreement between Barton Incorporated and Alexander L. Berk
          dated  as  of  September  1,  1990  as  amended  by Amendment No. 1 to
          Employment Agreement between

                                       83
<PAGE>

          Barton  Incorporated  and  Alexander  L.  Berk dated November 11, 1996
          (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the  fiscal  year  ended  February 28, 1998 and incorporated herein by
          reference).

10.4      Amendment  No.  2  to Employment Agreement between Barton Incorporated
          and Alexander L. Berk dated October 20, 1998 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
          the  Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          February 28, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.5      Long-Term  Stock  Incentive  Plan,  which  amends   and  restates  the
          Canandaigua  Wine  Company,  Inc.  Stock Option and Stock Appreciation
          Right Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
          Form  10-Q  for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 1997 and incorporated
          herein by reference).

10.6      Amendment  Number  One to the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan
          (filed  as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for  the  fiscal quarter ended August 31, 1997 and incorporated herein
          by reference).

10.7      Amendment  Number  Two to the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan
          (filed  as  Exhibit  10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for  the  fiscal quarter ended August 31, 1999 and incorporated herein
          by reference).

10.8      Amendment Number Three to the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan
          (filed  as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for  the  fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2000 and incorporated herein
          by reference).

10.9      Amendment  Number Four to the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan
          (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the  fiscal  year  ended  February 28, 2001 and incorporated herein by
          reference).

10.10     Incentive  Stock  Option Plan of the Company (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
          the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
          ended August 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.11     Amendment  Number  One  to  the  Company's Incentive Stock Option Plan
          (filed  as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for  the  fiscal quarter ended August 31, 1997 and incorporated herein
          by reference).

10.12     Amendment  Number  Two  to  the  Company's Incentive Stock Option Plan
          (filed  as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for  the  fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2000 and incorporated herein
          by reference).

10.13     Amendment  Number  Three  to the Company's Incentive Stock Option Plan
          (filed  as  Exhibit  10.13 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2001 and incorporated herein by
          reference).

10.14     Annual  Management  Incentive   Plan  of the Company (filed as Exhibit
          10.4  to  the  Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
          quarter ended August 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.15     Amendment  Number  One  to  the  Company's Annual Management Incentive
          Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
          10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended February 28, 1998 and incorporated
          herein by reference).

                                       84
<PAGE>

10.16     Amendment  Number  Two  to  the  Company's Annual Management Incentive
          Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
          10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended February 28, 2001 and incorporated
          herein by reference).

10.17     Lease,  effective December 25, 1997, by and among Matthew Clark Brands
          Limited and Pontsarn Investments Limited  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.13 to
          the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K  for the fiscal year ended
          February 28, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.18     Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan   of  the  Company (filed as
          Exhibit  10.14  to  the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal  year  ended  February  28,  1999  and  incorporated  herein by
          reference).

10.19     First  Amendment  to  the  Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement
          Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
          10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 1999 and incorporated herein
          by reference).

10.20     Second  Amendment to  the  Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement
          Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
          10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended February 28, 2001 and incorporated
          herein by reference).

10.21     Credit  Agreement, dated  as of  October 6, 1999, between the Company,
          certain  principal  subsidiaries, and certain banks for which JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank  (formerly  known  as  The  Chase  Manhattan Bank) acts as
          Administrative  Agent,  The  Bank  of  Nova Scotia acts as Syndication
          Agent,  and  Credit Suisse First Boston and Citicorp USA, Inc. acts as
          Co-Documentation  Agents  (filed  as  Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's
          Quarterly  Report  on  Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November
          30, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.22     Amendment  No. 1  to  Credit Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2001,
          between  the  Company,  certain  principal  subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for certain banks (filed as Exhibit 4.20 to the
          Company's  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal year ended
          February 28, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.23     Amendment  No.  2  to  the  Credit Agreement, dated as of May 16, 2001
          between  the  Company,  certain  principal  subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for  certain banks (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
          Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
          May 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.24     Guarantee  Assumption  Agreement,  dated   as  of  July  2,  2001,  by
          Ravenswood  Winery,  Inc.,  in  favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly
          known  as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as administrative agent, pursuant
          to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 6, 1999, as amended (filed
          as  Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
          fiscal  quarter  ended  August  31,  2001  and  incorporated herein by
          reference).

10.25     Amendment  No.  3  to  the  Credit Agreement, dated as of September 7,
          2001 between the Company, certain principal subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for  certain banks (filed as Exhibit 4.7 to the
          Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
          August 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).

                                       85
<PAGE>

10.26     Amendment No. 4  to the Credit Agreement, dated as of January 15, 2002
          between  the  Company,  certain  principal  subsidiaries, and JPMorgan
          Chase  Bank   (formerly  known  as   The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank),  as
          administrative  agent  for  certain  banks  (filed herewith as Exhibit
          4.14).

10.27     Letter  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  Thomas S. Summer, dated
          March 10, 1997, addressing compensation (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the
          Company's  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal year ended
          February  29,  2000  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.28     Service  Agreement  between  Matthew Clark plc and Peter Aikens, dated
          September  27,  1991,  as  amended  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.17  to the
          Company's  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal year ended
          February 29, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.29     The  Constellation   Brands  UK  Sharesave  Scheme, as  amended (filed
          herewith).

11.1      Statement re Computation of Per Share Earnings (filed herewith).

21.1      Subsidiaries of Company (filed herewith).

23.1      Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP (filed herewith).

99.1      1989  Employee  Stock Purchase Plan (Restated June 27, 2001) (filed as
          Exhibit  99.1  to  the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
          fiscal  quarter  ended  August  31,  2001  and  incorporated herein by
          reference).

99.2      Letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Temporary
          Note 3T to Article 3 of Regulation S-X (filed herewith).

                                       86
<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
