 10-K 1 ipg12311510k.htm 10-K     10-K UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C. 20549Form 10-Ky  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 Commission file number: 1-6686 THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware 13-1024020(State or other jurisdiction ofincorporation or organization) (I.R.S. EmployerIdentification No.)909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)(212) 704-1200(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:Title of each class  Name of each exchange on which registeredCommon Stock, $0.10 par value  New York Stock ExchangeSecurities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NoneIndicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.Yes y     No   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.Yes       No y Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.Yes y     No   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).Yes y     No   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large accelerated filer y   Accelerated filer   Non-accelerated filer     Smaller reporting company   (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).Yes       No y As of June 30, 2015, the aggregate market value of the shares of registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $7.9 billion. The number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of February 12, 2016 was 402,129,565.DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCEThe following sections of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19, 2016 are incorporated by reference in Part III:  Election of Directors,   Director Selection Process,   Code of Conduct,   Committees of The Board of Directors,   Audit Committee,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Executive Compensation,   Non-Management Director Compensation,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee Report,   Outstanding Shares and Ownership of Common Stock,   Equity Compensation Plan Information,   Transactions with Related Persons,   Director Independence  and  Appointment of Registered Public Accounting Firm. TABLE OF CONTENTS Page No.PART IItem 1.Business2Item 1A.Risk Factors7Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments10Item 2.Properties10Item 3.Legal Proceedings10Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures10   PART IIItem 5.Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities12Item 6.Selected Financial Data14Item 7.Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations15Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk35Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data37Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure78Item 9A.Controls and Procedures78Item 9B.Other Information78   PART IIIItem 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance79Item 11.Executive Compensation79Item 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters79Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence79Item 14.Principal Accountant Fees and Services79   PART IVItem 15.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules80   STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING DISCLOSUREThis annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements in this report that are not historical facts, including statements about management s beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as  may,   will,   expect,   believe,   anticipate,   intend,   could,   would,   estimate,   continue  or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined under Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: potential effects of a challenging economy, for example, on the demand for our advertising and marketing services, on our clients  financial condition and on our business or financial condition; our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients; our ability to retain and attract key employees; risks associated with assumptions we make in connection with our critical accounting estimates, including changes in assumptions associated with any effects of a weakened economy; potential adverse effects if we are required to recognize impairment charges or other adverse accounting-related developments; risks associated with the effects of global, national and regional economic and political conditions, including counterparty risks and fluctuations in economic growth rates, interest rates and currency exchange rates; and developments from changes in the regulatory and legal environment for advertising and marketing and communications services companies around the world.Investors should carefully consider these factors and the additional risk factors outlined in more detail under Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this report.PART IItem 1.BusinessThe Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ( Interpublic,  the "Company,"  IPG,   we,   us  or  our ) was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.About UsWe are one of the world s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Through our 49,200 employees in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Our agencies create customized marketing programs for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market share.The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or deliver global integrated programs.The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients  needs. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, manages corporate social responsibility programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services.Our BrandsInterpublic is home to some of the world s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global networks:  McCann Worldgroup, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB") and MullenLowe Group, which provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients. Our global media services companies include UM and Initiative, which operate under the IPG Mediabrands umbrella. We also have a range of best-in-class global specialized communications assets as well as premier domestic integrated and digital agencies that are industry leaders. McCann Worldgroup is a leading global marketing solutions network comprised of agencies that emphasize creativity, innovation and performance. McCann Erickson is one of the world's largest advertising agency networks; MRM//McCann conducts digital marketing and relationship management; Momentum oversees event marketing and promotion; McCann Health directs professional and consumer healthcare communications; and Craft Worldwide is the network's global adaptation and production arm. UM (media), Weber Shandwick (public relations) and FutureBrand (brand consulting) align with McCann Worldgroup to deliver fully integrated solutions. FCB is a global, fully integrated marketing communications company focused on changing consumer behavior for the benefit of their clients, colleagues and communities. With more than 8,000 people from 120 offices in 80 countries, the network brings a strong understanding of local markets and cultures while continuing a heritage of creativity and success dating from 1873. The company has its roots in both creative, brand-building consumer advertising and behavioral, data-driven direct marketing. MullenLowe Group is a creatively-driven integrated marketing communications network with a strong entrepreneurial heritage and challenger mentality. The network comprises a global creative boutique of distinctive diverse agencies, rich in local culture with both intimacy and scale, present in more than 65 markets with over 90 offices. With an integrated, hyperbundled operating model, MullenLowe Group consists of global brands including MullenLowe (full-service), MullenLowe Profero (integrated digital marketing), MullenLowe Mediahub (media and communications planning and buying) and MullenLowe Open (behavior-driven activation, customer relationship management (CRM) and shopper marketing). MullenLowe Group consistently ranks among the most-awarded creative and effective agency networks in the world. IPG Mediabrands makes investment decisions for tens of billions of dollars of client marketing budgets. Its global full-service media agencies, UM and Initiative, deliver business results by advising clients on how to navigate an increasingly 2complex and digital marketing landscape through integrated, intelligence-driven marketing strategies. Specialist brands within IPG Mediabrands focus on areas such as media innovation, media forecasting, the targeting and aggregation of audiences in the digital space, and a range of other capabilities, including mobile, search, data and analytics, branded content, programmatic, barter and out-of-home media. We also have exceptional global marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. Our industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick and Golin have expertise in every significant area of communication management. Jack Morton is a global brand experience agency, and FutureBrand is a leading brand consultancy. Octagon is a global sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing agency. Our digital specialist agencies, led by R/GA, Huge and MRM//McCann, are among the industry's most award-winning digital agencies. Our premier healthcare communications specialists reside within our global creative networks. Our domestic integrated independent agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday and The Martin Agency. The marketing programs created by these agencies incorporate all media channels, CRM, public relations and other marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.We list approximately 90 of our companies on our website under the "Our Agencies" section, with descriptions, case studies, social media channels and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.Market StrategyWe operate in a media landscape that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative and strategic talent in areas including fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. We consistently review opportunities within our Company to enhance our operations through mergers and strategic alliances, as well as the development of internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. These include: Investment in senior talent:  We successfully completed management succession at our media management company, one of our global advertising networks and at a number of our U.S. integrated agencies and leading marketing services firms. We continue to acquire and develop top strategic, creative and digital talent. Growing digital capabilities:  Our investments in talent and technology   organically growing digital capabilities such as search, social, user experience (UX), content creation, data and analytics, and mobile across the portfolio   promise to drive further growth in this dynamic sector of our business. We continue to internationalize our powerful digital specialist agencies. Innovative media offering:  We launched IPG Mediabrands in 2007 to reinvent how we plan, buy and measure media investment for clients. Since then, it has delivered strong growth, and our Company has consistently been a leader in delivering fully competitive, efficient and effective traditional media buying to major clients, as well as automated digital ad buying and data and analytics. Investment in emerging markets:  We strengthened our position in emerging markets by driving organic growth as well as completing strategic acquisitions in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, a region in which we have led the industry in organic growth. Integrated marketing solutions:  A differentiating aspect of our business is our utilization of  open architecture  solutions that integrate the best talent from throughout the organization to fulfill the needs of our leading clients.Together, these steps have built a culture of strategic creativity and high performance across IPG, resulting in industry-leading new business performance, as well as increased honors and awards for our Company. In 2015, integrated media agency UM was named  Global Media Agency of the Year  by Adweek and  Media Agency of the Year  by Ad Age, two of the industry s leading trade publications. Our best-in-class public relations offering led PRWeek to name Weber Shandwick its Global Agency of the Year in 2015 and The Holmes Report to name Weber Shandwick its  Global Agency of the Year  in 2015, 2014, 2012 and 2010. In 2015, McCann was named to the prestigious Ad Age A-List, the only global integrated creative network to receive the honor. In early 2016, Ad Age named a total of three IPG agencies, Deutsch, McCann and R/GA, to its A-List; additionally UM was named its "Media Agency of the Year." This level of industry recognition in all marketing disciplines has been consistent over the past few years and is unprecedented in our Company s history.3Digital GrowthDemand for our digital marketing services continues to evolve rapidly. In order to meet this need and provide high-value resources to clients, we have focused on embedding digital talent and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should be integrated within all of our companies. This structure mirrors the way in which consumers incorporate digital media into their other media habits and, ultimately, their daily lives. We continue to invest in recruiting and developing digital expertise at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines.To meet the changing needs of the marketplace, we have been active in making new acquisitions and minority investments in specialty digital assets. In addition, we have consistently invested in existing assets such as Cadreon (audience management platform), The IPG Media Lab, Huge, MRM//McCann as well as R/GA. These companies have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.Fast-Growth and Strategic RegionsWe continue to invest and expand our presence in high-growth and strategic geographic regions. In recent years, we have made significant investments in Brazil and India, further strengthening our leadership position in these important developing markets. Most recently, we gained a stronger foothold in Russia by acquiring three creative agencies from ADV, our longtime partner in the country. Additionally, in 2015 Golin launched GolinMagic in China, a new venture with the Magic Group to establish a new public relations agency for this key market. Our operations in India are best-in-class, and we will continue to invest in partnerships and talent in this key market. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks ( MCN ), among the region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with 65 offices across 14 countries. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in the talent of our agency brands. Additional areas of investment include other key strategic markets in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa.Diversity and InclusionIPG and our agencies are committed to diversity and inclusion, and we reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning programs. These include business resource groups that develop career building programs, as well as training around topics like unconscious bias. We seek to ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to the ability of our leaders to hire, promote and retain diverse talent, and we regularly measure the inclusiveness of our culture with a company-wide climate for inclusion survey.We began our formal programs a decade ago. Since then, IPG has seen dramatic improvements in the diversity of our workforce. In the U.S., IPG exceeded the U.S. ad industry s representation rates for women and minorities for both professional level and management positions in 2015. An environment that encourages respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours, and IPG believes a competitive advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs in its workforce.Acquisition StrategyA disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's rapidly-changing marketing services and media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been opportunistic in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions that enhance our service offerings. We will continue to focus on digital and marketing services agencies throughout the world and on key international growth markets.In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in digital, mobile marketing, social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full-service capabilities. These acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or specialist agencies. In 2015, IPG s acquisitions included a full-service digital agency in the U.K., the Russian creative agencies previously owned by ADV and a media and planning buying agency with significant digital capabilities in Canada.Financial ObjectivesOur financial goals include competitive organic revenue growth and operating margin expansion, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate, information technology and shared services, such as finance, human resources and legal. The improvements we have made and continue to make in our financial reporting and business information systems in recent years allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term shareholder value.4Financial Reporting SegmentsWe have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks ( IAN ) and Constituency Management Group ( CMG ). IAN is comprised of McCann Worldgroup, FCB, MullenLowe Group, IPG Mediabrands, our digital specialist agencies and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the  Corporate and other  group. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.Principal MarketsOur agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below.For further information regarding revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each of the last three years, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Sources of RevenueOur revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated, and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which we either retain in full or share with the client depending on the nature of the applicable services agreement.We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing, and corporate and brand identity services.In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients, as is customary in the advertising and marketing industries. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients, and in some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges . Generally, we act as the client s agent rather than the primary obligor.5Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work that is typically completed during the fourth quarter. Fee revenue recognized on a completed-contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31.See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.ClientsOur large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 19% and 20% of revenue in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our largest client accounted for approximately 4% and 5% of revenue for 2015 and 2014, respectively. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015, our largest client sectors (in alphabetical order) were auto and transportation, healthcare and tech and telecom. We represent several different clients, brands or divisions within each of these sectors in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.PersonnelAs of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 49,200 people, of whom approximately 19,900 were employed in the United States. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.Available InformationOur annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com under the "Investor Relations" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee, Corporate Governance Committee and Finance Committee are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.6Item 1A.Risk FactorsWe are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to us and the industry in which we operate. The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could also have a negative impact on our business operations or financial condition. See also Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure. We operate in a highly competitive industry.The advertising and marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our agencies and media services compete with other agencies and other providers of creative, marketing or media services, to maintain existing client relationships and to win new business. Our competitors include not only other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or regional markets as well as new forms of market participants.The client s perception of the quality of our agencies  creative work and its relationships with key personnel at the Company or our agencies are important factors that affect our competitive position. An agency s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis and across a range of services may also be an important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because an agency s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry into the industry is almost unlimited, and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client s account from a much larger competitor. Clients may terminate or reduce their relationships with us on short notice.Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time, and we have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. Our clients may choose to terminate their contracts, or reduce their relationships with us, on a relatively short time frame and for any reason. A relatively small number of clients contribute a significant portion of our revenue. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 19% of revenue in 2015. A substantial decline in a large client s advertising and marketing spending, or the loss of a significant part of its business, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations.Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients  policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest, or our own exclusivity arrangements with certain clients. These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies. Our results of operations are highly susceptible to unfavorable economic conditions.We are exposed to risks associated with weak regional or global economic conditions and increased disruption in the financial markets. The global economy continues to be volatile. Uncertainty about the strength of the global economy generally, or economic conditions in certain regions, and a degree of caution on the part of some marketers, continue to have an effect on the demand for advertising and marketing communication services. Our industry can be affected more severely than other sectors by an economic downturn and can recover more slowly than the economy in general. In the past, some clients have responded to weak economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may recur in the future. Furthermore, unexpected revenue shortfalls can result in misalignments of costs and revenues, resulting in a negative impact to our operating margins. If our business is significantly adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions, the negative impact on our revenue could pose a challenge to our operating income and cash generation from operations. We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel.Our employees, including creative, digital, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most valuable assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to identify and develop the appropriate talent and to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award and other factors which may be beyond our control. In addition, the advertising and marketing services industry is characterized by a high degree of employee mobility. If we were to fail to attract key personnel or lose them to competitors or clients, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.7 If our clients experience financial distress, or seek to change or delay payment terms, it could negatively affect our own financial position and results.We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity.Furthermore, in most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. The amounts involved substantially exceed our revenues and primarily affect the level of accounts receivable, expenditures billable to clients, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges only after we have received funds from our clients. However, if clients are unable to pay for commitments that we have entered into on their behalf, or if clients seek to significantly delay or otherwise alter payment terms, there could be an adverse effect on our working capital, which would negatively impact our operating cash flow. International business risks could adversely affect our operations.We are a global business, with agencies located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Operations outside the United States represent a significant portion of our revenues, approximately 41% in 2015. These operations are exposed to risks that include local legislation, currency variation, exchange control restrictions and difficult social, political or economic conditions. We also must comply with applicable U.S., local and other international anti-corruption laws, export controls and economic sanctions, which can be complex and stringent, in all jurisdictions where we operate. Failure to comply or to implement business practices that sufficiently prevent corruption could result in significant remediation expense and expose us to significant civil and criminal penalties and reputational harm. In developing countries or regions, we may face further risks, such as slower receipt of payments, nationalization, social and economic instability, currency repatriation restrictions and undeveloped or inconsistently enforced commercial laws. These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries.In addition, because a significant portion of our business is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Argentine Peso, Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Chilean Peso, Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen and South African Rand, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and such currencies, including the persistent strength of the U.S. Dollar in recent periods, may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to industry regulations and other legal or reputational risks that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our performance or financial condition.Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. Advertisers and consumer groups may challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, judicial actions or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Our business is also subject to specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements applicable to advertising for certain products. Existing and proposed laws and regulations, in particular in the European Union and the United States, concerning user privacy, use of personal information and on-line tracking technologies could affect the efficacy and profitability of internet-based and digital marketing. Legislators, agencies and other governmental units may also continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products, such as alcohol or tobacco, and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may hinder our ability to accomplish our clients  goals and have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and, consequently, on our revenues. Furthermore, we could suffer reputational risk as a result of governmental or legal action or from undertaking work that may be challenged by consumer groups or considered controversial. We face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments.We regularly undertake acquisitions and other investments that we believe will enhance our service offerings to our clients. These transactions can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. While our evaluation of any potential acquisition includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. Though we typically structure our acquisitions to provide for future contingent purchase payments that are based on the future performance of the acquired entity, our forecasts of the investment s future performance also factor into the initial consideration. When actual financial results differ, our returns on the investment could be adversely affected.We may also experience difficulty integrating new employees, businesses, assets or systems into our organization, including with respect to our internal policies and required controls. We may face reputational and legal risks in situations where we have a significant minority investment but limited control over the investment's operations. Furthermore, it may take longer than 8anticipated to realize the expected benefits from these transactions, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all. Talent is among our most valuable assets, and we also may not realize the intended benefits of a transaction if we fail to retain targeted personnel. Acquisition and integration activity may also divert management s attention and other corporate resources from other business needs. If we fail to realize the intended advantages of any given investment or acquisition, or if we do not identify or correctly measure the associated risks and liabilities, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We rely extensively on information technology systems and could face cybersecurity risks.We rely extensively and increasingly on information technologies and infrastructure to manage our business, including digital storage of marketing strategies and client information, developing new business opportunities and digital products and processing business transactions. The incidence of malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks, computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks or other malicious activities is on the rise worldwide. Power outages, equipment failure, natural disasters (including extreme weather), terrorist activities or human error may also affect our systems and result in disruption of our services or loss or improper disclosure of personal data, business information, including intellectual property, or other confidential information. We operate in many respects on a decentralized basis, with a large number of agencies and legal entities, and the resulting size, diversity and disparity of our technology systems and complications in implementing standardized technologies and procedures could increase our potential vulnerability to such breakdowns, malicious intrusions or attacks.Likewise, data privacy breaches, as well as improper use of social media, by employees and others may pose a risk that sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information, strategic plans and trade secrets, could be exposed to third parties or to the general public. We operate worldwide, and the legal rules governing data transfers are often complex, conflicting, unclear or ever-changing. We also utilize third parties, including third-party  cloud  computing services, to store, transfer or process data, and system failures or network disruptions or breaches in the systems of such third parties could adversely affect our reputation or business.Any such breaches or breakdowns could expose us to legal liability, be expensive to remedy, result in a loss of our or our clients  or vendors  proprietary information and damage our reputation. Efforts to develop, implement and maintain security measures are costly, may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Our earnings would be adversely affected if we were required to recognize asset impairment charges or increase our deferred tax valuation allowances.We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability annually or whenever there is an indication that they are impaired or not realizable. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance.As of December 31, 2015, we have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including approximately $3.6 billion of goodwill. Future events, including our financial performance, market valuation of us or market multiples of comparable companies, loss of a significant client s business or strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments may have become impaired. Any significant impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized. For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as our sensitivity analysis of our valuation of these assets, see  Critical Accounting Estimates  in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones.From time to time, we communicate to the public certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance that are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance. They should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. See Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if our available liquidity is insufficient.We maintain a $1 billion committed credit facility to increase our financial flexibility (the  Credit Agreement ). If credit under the Credit Agreement were unavailable or insufficient, our liquidity could be adversely affected. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, and events like a material economic downturn could adversely affect our ability to comply with them. For example, compliance with the financial covenants would be more difficult to achieve if we were to experience substantially lower revenues, a substantial increase in client defaults or sizable asset impairment charges. If we were unable to comply with any of 9the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, we could be required to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders, and our costs under the Credit Agreement could increase. If we were unable to obtain a necessary amendment or waiver, the Credit Agreement could be terminated, and any outstanding amounts could be subject to acceleration. Furthermore, if our business or financial needs lead us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. For further discussion of our liquidity profile and outlook, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us.Because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness, including covenants and interest rates, we could be adversely affected if our credit ratings were downgraded or if they were significantly weaker than those of our competitors. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. The costs of compliance with sustainability or other social responsibility laws, regulations or policies, including client-driven policies and standards, could adversely affect our business.Although as a non-manufacturing service business we generally are not directly impacted by current laws and regulations with respect to climate change and other sustainability concerns, we could incur related costs indirectly through our clients. Increasingly our clients request that we comply with their own social responsibility, sustainability or other business policies or standards, which may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations, before they commence, or continue, doing business with us. Our compliance with these policies and related certification requirements could be costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business relationships or reputation. Further, if clients  costs are adversely affected by climate change or related laws and regulations, this could negatively impact their spending on our advertising and marketing services. We could also face increased prices from our own suppliers that face climate change-related costs and that seek to pass on their increased costs to their customers.Item 1B.Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.Item 2.PropertiesSubstantially all of our office space is leased from third parties. Certain leases are subject to rent reviews or contain escalation clauses, and certain of our leases require the payment of various operating expenses, which may also be subject to escalation. Physical properties include leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment located in our offices. We believe that facilities leased or owned by us are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our lease commitments.Item 3.Legal ProceedingsWe are involved in various legal proceedings, and subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities, arising in the normal course of our business. The types of allegations that arise in connection with such legal proceedings vary in nature, but can include claims related to contract, employment, tax and intellectual property matters. While any outcome related to litigation or such governmental proceedings in which we are involved cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the outcome of these matters, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information relating to our legal matters.Item 4.Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicable.10Executive Officers of IPGName Age OfficeMichael I. Roth1 70 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerAndrew Bonzani 52 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryChristopher F. Carroll 49 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting OfficerJulie M. Connors 44 Senior Vice President, Audit and Chief Risk OfficerEllen Johnson 50 Senior Vice President of Finance and TreasurerPhilippe Krakowsky 53 Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy and Talent OfficerFrank Mergenthaler 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  1Also a DirectorThere is no family relationship among any of the executive officers.Mr. Roth became our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in January 2005. Prior to that time, Mr. Roth served as our Chairman of the Board from July 2004 to January 2005. Mr. Roth served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The MONY Group Inc. from February 1994 to June 2004. Mr. Roth has been a member of the Board of Directors of IPG since February 2002. He is also non-executive chairman of the board of Pitney Bowes Inc. and a director of Ryman Hospitality Properties.Mr. Bonzani was hired as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2012. Prior to joining IPG, Mr. Bonzani worked at IBM for 18 years, holding a number of positions in the legal department, most recently as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary from July 2008 to March 2012.Mr. Carroll was named Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in April 2006. Mr. Carroll served as Senior Vice President and Controller of McCann Worldgroup from November 2005 to March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Carroll served as Chief Accounting Officer and Controller at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals and MIM Corporation. Prior to that time, he served as a Financial Vice President at Lucent Technologies, Inc. and began his professional career at PricewaterhouseCoopers from October 1991 to September 2000.Ms. Connors was hired in February 2010 as Senior Vice President, Audit and Chief Risk Officer. Prior to joining us, she served as a partner at Deloitte & Touche, LLP from September 2003 to January 2010.Ms. Johnson was hired as Assistant Treasurer, International in February 2000. In May 2004, Ms. Johnson was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of The Partnership, a division of Interpublic which included Lowe Worldwide and Draft. She was elected Senior Vice President and Treasurer in October 2004 and in February 2013 was elected to Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasurer.Mr. Krakowsky was hired in January 2002 as Senior Vice President, Director of Corporate Communications. He was elected Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Relations in December 2005 and in February 2011 was elected Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy and Talent Officer. Prior to joining us, he served as Senior Vice President, Communications Director for Young & Rubicam from August 1996 to December 2000. Mr. Mergenthaler was hired in August 2005 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Columbia House Company from July 2002 to July 2005. Mr. Mergenthaler served as Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer for Vivendi Universal from December 2001 to March 2002. Prior to that time, Mr. Mergenthaler was an executive at Seagram Company Ltd. from November 1996 to December 2001. Mr. Mergenthaler is a director of Express Scripts, Inc.11PART IIItem 5.Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPrice Range of Common StockOur common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol  IPG.  The following table provides the high and low closing sales prices per share for the periods shown below as reported on the NYSE. As of February 12, 2016, there were approximately 12,000 registered holders of our outstanding common stock.During 2015, the following dividends were declared and paid:During 2014, the following dividends were declared and paid:On February 12, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors (the "Board") had declared a common stock cash dividend of $0.15 per share, payable on March 15, 2016 to holders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2016. Although it is the Board's current intention to declare and pay future dividends, there can be no assurance that such additional dividends will in fact be declared and paid. Any and the amount of any such declaration is at the discretion of the Board and will depend upon factors such as our earnings, financial position and cash requirements.Equity Compensation PlansSee Item 12 for information about our equity compensation plans.12Transfer Agent and Registrar for Common StockThe transfer agent and registrar for our common stock is:Computershare Shareowner Services LLC480 Washington Boulevard29th FloorJersey City, New Jersey 07310Telephone: (877) 363-6398Sales of Unregistered SecuritiesNot applicable.Repurchase of Equity SecuritiesThe following table provides information regarding our purchases of our equity securities during the period from October 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. 1Included shares of our common stock, par value $0.10 per share, withheld under the terms of grants under employee stock-based compensation plans to offset tax withholding obligations that occurred upon vesting and release of restricted shares (the "Withheld Shares"). We repurchased 1,004 Withheld Shares in October 2015, 1,777 Withheld Shares in November 2015 and 9,342 Withheld Shares in December 2015.2The average price per share for each of the months in the fiscal quarter and for the three-month period was calculated by dividing the sum of the applicable period of the aggregate value of the tax withholding obligations and the aggregate amount we paid for shares acquired under our stock repurchase program, described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, by the sum of the number of Withheld Shares and the number of shares acquired in our stock repurchase program.3In February 2015, the Board authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0 million, excluding fees, of our common stock (the "2015 Share Repurchase Program"). On February 12, 2016, we announced that our Board had approved a new share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0 million, excluding fees, of our common stock. The new authorization is in addition to any amounts remaining for repurchase under the 2015 Share Repurchase Program. There is no expiration date associated with the share repurchase programs.13Item 6.Selected Financial DataTHE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESSelected Financial Data(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts and Ratios)(Unaudited) 1The year ended December 31, 2014 included the net reversal of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in Continental Europe of $67.6.2The year ended December 31, 2015 included losses of $47.1, net of tax, on sales of businesses. The years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 included losses of $6.6 and $28.3, net of tax, related to our early extinguishment of debt, respectively. The year ended December 31, 2013 included a loss of $50.9, net of tax, from the effects of restructuring and related costs. The years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 included a gain of $57.2 and $126.2, net of tax, respectively, related to the sales of our holdings in Facebook.3Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2015 included a negative impact of $0.12 per share from losses on sales of businesses. Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2014 included a positive impact of $0.16 per share from the net reversal of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in Continental Europe. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2014 also included a negative impact of $0.01 and $0.02 per share, respectively, from a loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2013 included a negative impact of $0.12 and $0.11 per share, respectively, from the effects of restructuring and related costs, net of tax. Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2013 also included a negative impact of $0.06 per share from a loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax. Basic earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 included a positive impact of $0.14 and $0.27 per share, respectively, and diluted earnings per share included a positive impact of $0.12 and $0.23 per share, respectively, from the gains recorded for the sale of our holdings in Facebook, net of tax.14Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Item 7.Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD&A ) is intended to help you understand The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries ( IPG,   we,   us  or  our ). MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this report. Our MD&A includes the following sections:EXECUTIVE SUMMARY provides a discussion about our strategic outlook, factors influencing our business and an overview of our results of operations and liquidity.RESULTS OF OPERATIONS provides an analysis of the consolidated and segment results of operations for 2015 compared to 2014 and 2014 compared to 2013.LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES provides an overview of our cash flows, funding requirements, contractual obligations, financing and sources of funds and debt credit ratings.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES provides a discussion of our accounting policies that require critical judgment, assumptions and estimates.RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, by reference to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, provides a discussion of certain accounting standards that have been adopted during 2015 or that have not yet been required to be implemented and may be applicable to our future operations.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYDuring 2015, our organic revenue increase was driven by growth throughout all our geographic regions, which was a result of growth with existing clients and net new business wins during the year. The growth in our domestic market was across all major disciplines and nearly all agencies. Our international organic increase was across all our disciplines, with notable contributions from the Asia Pacific region and the United Kingdom. We continued to have strong growth in demand for our full range of services, including creative, digital, media and marketing services across most of our regional markets. We carefully managed our operating expenses, which reflected investments made in our agencies to support our new business portfolio, service our existing clients and grow our capabilities.Overall demand for our services by clients remains solid, though with challenging economic conditions in some parts of the world, marketers continue to show a measure of caution. We continue to derive substantial benefit from our diversified client base, our global footprint and the broad range and strength of our professional offerings. We continued to enhance our businesses during 2015 by making investments in creative and strategic talent that emphasize our growth priorities: fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions, creative talent and strategic world markets. We believe our continued investment in tools, technology and process improvements will create efficiencies in the delivery of our services.We continued to enhance value to our shareholders through common stock dividends, share repurchases and improvements in our balance sheet. Basic earnings per share available to IPG common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $1.11, $1.14 and $0.62 per share, respectively. Diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $1.09, $1.12 and $0.61 per share, respectively. Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2015 included a negative impact of $0.12 per share from the losses on sales of businesses due to completed dispositions and the classification of certain assets as held for sale. Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2014 included a positive impact of $0.16 per share from the net reversal of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in Continental Europe. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2014 also included a negative impact of $0.01 and $0.02 per share, respectively, from the loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax. Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2013 included a negative impact of $0.06 per share from a loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2013 also included a negative impact of $0.12 and $0.11 per share, respectively, from the effects of restructuring and related costs, net of tax.15Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The following tables present a summary of financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2015, as compared with the same periods in 2014 and 2013.When we analyze period-to-period changes in our operating performance, we determine the portion of the change that is attributable to changes in foreign currency rates and the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures, and the remainder we call organic change, which indicates how our underlying business performed. The performance metrics that we use to evaluate our results include the organic change in revenue, salaries and related expenses and office and general expenses, and the components of operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of total consolidated revenue. Additionally, in certain of our discussions we analyze revenue by geographic region and also by business sector, in which we focus on our top 100 clients, which typically constitute approximately 55% to 60% of our annual consolidated revenues. The change in our operating performance attributable to changes in foreign currency rates is determined by converting the prior-period reported results using the current-period exchange rates and comparing these prior-period adjusted amounts to the prior-period reported results. Although the U.S. Dollar is our reporting currency, a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses are generated in foreign currencies. Therefore, our reported results are affected by fluctuations in the currencies in which we conduct our international businesses. Our exposure is mitigated as the majority of our revenues and expenses in any given market are generally denominated in the same currency. Both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar affect our consolidated results of operations, and the magnitude of the foreign currency impact on us related to each geographic region depends on the significance and operating performance of the region. The primary foreign currencies that impacted our results during 2015 included the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling and Euro.For purposes of analyzing changes in our operating performance attributable to the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures, transactions are treated as if they occurred on the first day of the quarter during which the transaction occurred. During the past few years, we have acquired companies that we believe will enhance our offerings and disposed of businesses that are not consistent with our strategic plan. For 2015 and 2014, the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures increased revenue and operating expenses compared to the prior-year period. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our acquisitions.16Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) RESULTS OF OPERATIONSConsolidated Results of Operations REVENUEOur revenue is directly impacted by the retention and spending levels of existing clients and by our ability to win new clients. Most of our expenses are recognized ratably throughout the year and are therefore less seasonal than revenue. Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work completed that is typically recognized during the fourth quarter. In the events marketing business, revenues can fluctuate due to the timing of completed projects, as revenue is typically recognized when the project is complete. When we act as principal for these projects, we record the gross amount billed to the client as revenue, and the related costs are incurred as pass-through costs in office and general expenses.During 2015, our revenue increased by $76.7, or 1.0%, compared to 2014, comprised of an organic revenue increase of $461.5, or 6.1%, and the effect of net acquisitions of $23.7, largely offset by an adverse foreign currency rate impact of $408.5. Our organic revenue increase was throughout all geographic regions, attributable to a combination of net client wins and higher spending in most client sectors, notably in the technology and telecom and healthcare sectors. The organic increase in our domestic market was driven by growth across most disciplines, most notably at our advertising and media businesses, our digital specialist agencies and our public relations agencies. In our international markets, the organic revenue increase was driven by growth across all disciplines, most notably at our advertising business in the Asia Pacific region, predominantly in China, India and Singapore, and in the United Kingdom. Also contributing to our international organic revenue increase were our digital specialist agencies and public relations businesses across all regions.During 2014, our revenue increased by $414.8, or 5.8%, compared to 2013, comprised of an organic revenue increase of $395.0, or 5.5%, and the effect of net acquisitions of $95.3, partially offset by an adverse foreign currency rate impact of $75.5. Our organic revenue increase was throughout nearly all geographic regions, attributable to net client wins and net higher spending from existing clients, most notably in the healthcare and auto and transportation sectors, partially offset by modest declines in the technology and telecom and consumer goods sectors. The organic increase in our domestic market was driven by growth across most disciplines, most notably at our advertising and media businesses and at our digital specialist agencies, partially offset by a decline at our events marketing business. The international organic revenue increase was driven by growth across all disciplines and nearly all geographic regions, most notably in the Asia Pacific region, led by Australia, China and Singapore, in the United Kingdom, in the Latin America region, led by Brazil and Argentina, and in the Other regions, primarily in the Middle 17Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) East, partially offset by an organic decrease in the Continental Europe region due to a continued challenging economic climate. Since the global recession, the economic recovery in Continental Europe, taken as a group, has been subdued and as a result has lagged behind most other mature economies. Relatively high unemployment and very low inflation has led to lower than expected gross domestic product, resulting in a challenging economic climate. We expect economic and business conditions in this region to improve at a slow to moderate pace in 2015 and 2016.Refer to the segment discussion later in this MD&A for information on changes in revenue by segment.OPERATING EXPENSESIn 2015, compared to our revenue change of 1.0% from 2014, total operating expenses decreased 0.1%, resulting in operating margin expansion to 11.5% from 10.5%. In 2014, compared to our revenue increase of 5.8% from 2013, total operating expenses increased 3.4%, resulting in operating margin expansion to 10.5% from 8.4%. Our operating profit grew 10.6% in 2015 to $871.9, and grew 31.8% in 2014 to $788.4. Operating profit in 2013 included $60.6 of restructuring and other reorganization-related charges.Salaries and Related ExpensesSalaries and related expenses consist of payroll costs, employee performance incentives, including annual bonus and long-term incentive awards, costs for temporary workers, severance and other benefits associated with client service professional staff and administrative staff. Salaries and related expenses do not vary significantly with short-term changes in revenue levels; however, salaries may fluctuate due to the timing of the hiring of personnel to support revenue growth and changes in the performance levels and types of employee incentive awards. Additionally, we may take severance actions in areas where we have or anticipate decreases in operating performance or to enhance our teams or leadership. Changes in our incentive awards mix can impact future-period expense, as annual bonus awards are expensed during the year in which they are earned, and long-term incentive awards are expensed over the performance period, generally three years. Factors impacting long-term incentive awards are the actual number of awards vesting, the change in our stock price, actual results and changes to our projected results, which could impact the achievement of certain performance targets. Salaries and related expenses in 2015 increased by $37.3 compared to 2014, comprised of an organic increase of $270.3 and the effect of net acquisitions of $17.1, largely offset by a favorable foreign currency rate impact of $250.1. The organic increase was primarily attributable to an increase in base salaries, benefits and temporary help of $238.7, primarily due to increases in our workforce at businesses where we had revenue growth or new business wins, most notably in the domestic market and in the Asia Pacific region. Also contributing to the organic increase was higher incentive awards expense resulting from improved financial performance. Our staff cost ratio, defined as salaries and related expenses as a percentage of total consolidated revenue, decreased in 2015 to 63.8% from 64.0% when compared to the prior year. Salaries and related expenses in 2014 increased by $274.9 compared to 2013, comprised of an organic increase of $253.9 and the effect of net acquisitions of $59.3, partially offset by a favorable foreign currency rate impact of $38.3. The organic increase was primarily attributable to an increase in base salaries, benefits and temporary help of $202.1, primarily due to increases in our workforce at businesses where we had revenue growth or new business wins, primarily in the domestic market and in the United Kingdom and Asia Pacific region. Also contributing to the organic increase was higher incentive awards expense and 18Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) certain agency-related bonus accruals resulting from improved financial performance, partially offset by lower severance expense. Our staff cost ratio increased in 2014 to 64.0% from 63.8% in 2013.The following table details our staff cost ratio.Office and General ExpensesOffice and general expenses primarily include rent expense, professional fees, certain expenses incurred by our staff in servicing our clients and depreciation and amortization costs. Office and general expenses also include costs directly attributable to client engagements, including production costs, out-of-pocket costs such as travel for client service staff and other direct costs that are rebilled to our clients. Production expenses can vary significantly between periods depending upon the timing of completion of certain projects where we act as principal, which could impact trends between various periods in the future.Office and general expenses in 2015 decreased by $43.1 compared to 2014, due to a favorable foreign currency rate impact of $101.7, partially offset by an organic increase of $55.4 and the effect of net acquisitions of $3.2. The organic increase was due to increased general expenses and spending to support new and existing business activity. The organic increase was also attributable to an increase in reserves for certain contingencies, as well as an increase in professional fees, partially offset by lower production expenses related to pass-through costs, which are also reflected in revenue, for certain projects in which we acted as principal that decreased in size or did not recur during 2015. Our office and general expense ratio, defined as office and general expenses as a percentage of total consolidated revenue, decreased in 2015 to 24.8% from 25.6% in 2014.Office and general expenses in 2014 increased by $10.2 compared to 2013, due to the effect of net acquisitions of $20.1 and an organic increase of $9.8, partially offset by a favorable foreign currency rate impact of $19.7. The organic increase was primarily attributable to increases in adjustments to contingent acquisition obligations as compared to the prior year and increased spending to support new business activity, partially offset by lower production expenses related to pass-through costs, which are also reflected in revenue, primarily in the domestic market. Our office and general expense ratio decreased in 2014 to 25.6% from 26.9% in 2013.The following table details our office and general expense ratio. All other office and general expenses primarily include production expenses, and, to a lesser extent, depreciation and amortization, bad debt expense, adjustments for contingent acquisition obligations, foreign currency gains (losses), long-lived asset impairments and other expenses.19Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Restructuring and Other Reorganization-Related (Reversals) Charges, netThe components of restructuring and other reorganization-related (reversals) charges, net for all of our restructuring plans are listed below.2013 Restructuring PlanIn the fourth quarter of 2013, we implemented a cost savings initiative (the "2013 Plan") to better align our cost structure with our revenue, primarily in Continental Europe. In connection with this initiative, we identified and initiated restructuring actions resulting in pre-tax charges in 2013 of $61.2 related to the 2013 Plan, comprised of severance and termination costs of $55.9, lease termination costs of $4.8 and other exit costs of $0.5. In 2015, we recorded an additional $0.1 of net restructuring reversals related to the 2013 Plan at our Integrated Agency Networks ("IAN") segment. All restructuring actions were substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2014, with remaining payments expected to be made through 2021.A summary of the 2013 Plan restructuring liability activity is listed below.EXPENSES AND OTHER INCOME20Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Net Interest ExpenseFor 2015, net interest expense increased by $5.5 as compared to 2014, primarily due to lower interest income in the current year. Cash interest expense decreased primarily due to the retirement of our 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2014 (the "6.25% Notes") in the second quarter of 2014, partially offset by the issuance of our 4.20% Senior Notes due 2024 (the "4.20% Notes") in the second quarter of 2014. Non-cash interest expense increased primarily due to revaluations of mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests within our IAN segment.For 2014, net interest expense decreased by $40.5 as compared to 2013, primarily due to lower borrowing costs in the current year. Cash interest expense decreased primarily due to the redemption of our 6.25% Notes in the second quarter of 2014 and redemption of our 10.00% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 (the "10.00% Notes") in the third quarter of 2013, partially offset by the issuance of our 4.20% Notes in the second quarter of 2014. Non-cash interest expense decreased as compared to 2013 primarily due to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs during 2013 as part of the amendment of our credit agreement as well as the redemption of the 6.25% Notes and 10.00% Notes.Other Expense, netResults of operations include certain items that are not directly associated with our revenue-producing operations.(Losses) Gains on Sales of Businesses and Investments, net   During 2015, we recognized losses on the sales of businesses  on completed dispositions within both our IAN and Constituency Management Group ("CMG") segments and the classification of certain assets as held for sale within our IAN segment. During 2014, we recognized gains from the sale of a business located in Continental Europe within our IAN segment and the sale of investments in our Rabbi Trusts, which were partially offset by a loss from the sale of a business in the domestic market within our IAN segment. During 2013, we recognized gains from the sale of marketable securities in the Asia Pacific region within our IAN segment and the sale of investments in our Rabbi Trusts, which were partially offset by a loss from the sale of a business in the United Kingdom within our IAN segment.Assets held for sale of $12.1 and liabilities held for sale of $11.9 are included in Other current assets and Accrued liabilities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015. These assets and liabilities held for sale, which primarily consist of accounts receivable and accounts payable, respectively, are related to sales of businesses expected to be completed within the next twelve months.Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt   During 2014, we recorded a charge of $10.4 related to the redemption of our 6.25% Notes. During 2013, we recorded a charge of $45.2 related to the redemption of our 10.00% Notes. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.Vendor Discounts and Credit Adjustments   In connection with the liabilities related to vendor discounts and credits established as part of the restatement we presented in our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, these adjustments reflect the reversal of certain of these liabilities primarily where the statute of limitations has lapsed, or as a result of differences resulting from settlements with clients or vendors.Other Income (Expense), net   During 2015, we recorded a gain related to foreign currency forward exchange contracts within our Corporate and other group. During 2014, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate in the Asia Pacific region within our IAN segment. During 2013, other income (expense), net primarily included a non-cash gain on re-measurement to fair value of an equity interest in an affiliate, located in the Asia Pacific region within our CMG segment, upon acquiring a controlling interest.21Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) INCOME TAXESOur tax rates are affected by many factors, including our worldwide earnings from various countries, changes in legislation and tax characteristics of our income. In 2015, our effective income tax rate of 37.1% was negatively impacted primarily by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances and from the losses on sales of businesses for which we did not receive a full tax benefit. The negative impacts were partially offset by the reversal of valuation allowances in Continental Europe and the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits as a result of the settlement of the 2010 U.S. federal income tax audit.In 2014, our effective income tax rate of 30.0% was positively impacted from changes to our valuations allowances of $66.0. The primary drivers of the net change were associated with a valuation allowance reversal of $124.8 in one jurisdiction partially offset by the establishment of a valuation allowance of $57.2 in another jurisdiction, both in Continental Europe. In addition, our effective income tax rate was negatively impacted by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances.In 2013, our effective income tax rate of 38.7% was positively impacted by the recognition of losses attributable to worthless securities in a consolidated subsidiary and the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits as a result of the settlement of the 2002-2006 New York State audit cycle. Our effective income tax rate was negatively impacted primarily by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances.See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.EARNINGS PER SHAREBasic earnings per share available to IPG common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $1.11, $1.14 and $0.62 per share, respectively. Diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $1.09, $1.12 and $0.61 per share, respectively.Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2015 included a negative impact of $0.12 per share from the losses on sales of businesses due to completed dispositions and the classification of certain assets as held for sale. Both basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2014 included a positive impact of $0.16 per share from the net reversal on valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in Continental Europe. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2014 also included a negative impact of $0.01 and $0.02 per share, respectively, from a loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2013 included a negative impact of $0.12 and $0.11 per share, respectively, from the effects of restructuring and related costs, net of tax. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2013 also included a negative impact of $0.06 per share from a loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax.22Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Segment Results of Operations As discussed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have two reportable segments as of December 31, 2015: IAN and CMG. We also report results for the "Corporate and other" group.IANREVENUEDuring 2015, IAN revenue increased by $68.6 compared to 2014, comprised of an organic revenue increase of $409.6 and the effect of net acquisitions of $12.6, largely offset by an adverse foreign currency rate impact of $353.6. The organic revenue increase was primarily attributable to a combination of net client wins and higher spending in most client sectors, most notably in the technology and telecom and healthcare sectors. The organic revenue increase in our domestic market was driven by growth across all disciplines, most notably at our advertising businesses. The international organic revenue increase was driven by growth across all disciplines, notably at our advertising businesses and digital specialist agencies in the Asia Pacific region and the United Kingdom.During 2014, IAN revenue increased by $303.5 compared to 2013, comprised of an organic revenue increase of $319.2 and the effect of net acquisitions of $61.0, partially offset by an adverse foreign currency rate impact of $76.7. The organic revenue increase was primarily attributable to net client wins and net higher spending from existing clients, most notably in the healthcare and auto and transportation sectors, partially offset by a modest decline in the technology and telecom and consumer goods sectors. The organic revenue increase in our domestic market was driven by growth across all our disciplines. The international organic revenue increase was driven by our advertising and media businesses, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, led by Australia and China, in the Latin America region, primarily in Brazil, and in Other regions, primarily in the Middle East.SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME 1Segment operating income and operating margin exclude restructuring and other reorganization-related reversals of approximately $0.8 for the year ended December 31, 2015, and charges of $0.7 and $55.4 for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. See "Restructuring and Other Reorganization-Related (Reversals) Charges, net" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.Operating income increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 due to an increase in revenue of $68.6 and a decrease in office and general expenses of $13.2, partially offset by increases in salaries and related expenses of $9.9. The decrease in office and general expenses was attributable to lower occupancy costs, including an incentive from a lease buyout, and lower adjustments to contingent acquisition obligations as compared to the prior year. Partially offsetting the decrease in office and general expenses was a net increase in reserves for certain contingencies. The increase in salaries and related expenses was primarily driven by increases in our workforce at businesses and in regions where we had revenue growth from existing clients and net new business wins. Also contributing to the increase in salaries and related expenses was higher incentive awards expense.23Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Operating income increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 due to an increase in revenue of $303.5, partially offset by increases in salaries and related expenses of $186.4 and office and general expenses of $2.4. The increase in salaries and related expenses was primarily due to an increase in base salaries, benefits and temporary help, primarily attributable to an increase in our workforce in certain businesses where we had revenue growth or new business wins. Also contributing to the increase were higher incentive awards expense and certain agency-related bonus accruals resulting from improved financial performance, offset by lower severance expense. The increase in office and general expenses was primarily attributable to increases in adjustments to contingent acquisition obligations as compared to the prior year and increased spending to support new business activity, partially offset by lower production expenses related to pass-through costs, which are also reflected in revenue, primarily in the domestic market.CMGREVENUEDuring 2015, CMG revenue increased by $8.1 compared to 2014, comprised of an organic revenue increase of $51.9 and the effect of net acquisitions of $11.1, largely offset by an adverse foreign currency rate impact of $54.9. In our international markets, the organic revenue increase was driven by our public relations and events marketing businesses, predominantly in the Asia Pacific region. The domestic organic revenue increase was primarily attributable to growth at our public relations business, partially offset by a decline at our events marketing business.During 2014, CMG revenue increased by $111.3 compared to 2013, primarily comprised of an organic revenue increase of $75.8 and the effect of net acquisitions of $34.3. The organic revenue increase in our international markets was driven by growth across all disciplines, most notably at our public relations businesses, primarily in the Asia Pacific region and in the United Kingdom. Also contributing to the international organic revenue increase was our events marketing business in the United Kingdom and our sports marketing business in the Latin America region. The domestic organic revenue increase was primarily attributable to growth at our public relations and sports marketing businesses, partially offset by a decline at our events marketing business.SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME1Segment operating income and operating margin exclude restructuring and other reorganization-related reversals of approximately $0.5 for the year ended December 31, 2014, and charges of approximately $4.5 for the year ended December 31, 2013. There were no restructuring and other reorganization-related charges within the CMG segment for the year ended December 31, 2015. See "Restructuring and Other Reorganization-Related (Reversals) Charges, net" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.24Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Operating income increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 due to an increase in revenue of $8.1 and a decrease in office and general expenses of $22.5, partially offset by an increase in salaries and related expenses of $27.7. The decrease in office and general expenses was primarily due to lower production expenses related to pass-through costs, which are also reflected in revenue, for certain projects in which we acted as principal that decreased in size or did not recur during the current year. The increase in salaries and related expenses was due to increases in our workforce, most notably at our public relations business, to support business growth and increases due to acquisitions.Operating income increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 due to an increase in revenue of $111.3, partially offset by increases in salaries and related expenses of $69.6 and office and general expenses of $18.0. The increase in salaries and related expenses was due to an increase in base salaries, benefits and temporary help, primarily attributable to increases in our workforce, most notably at our public relations business, to support business growth, as well as increases due to acquisitions in 2014. Office and general expenses increased primarily due to higher occupancy costs, increased spending to support new business activity and increases due to acquisitions during 2014.CORPORATE AND OTHERCertain corporate and other charges are reported as a separate line item within total segment operating income and include corporate office expenses, as well as shared service center and certain other centrally managed expenses that are not fully allocated to operating divisions. Salaries and related expenses include salaries, long-term incentives, annual bonuses and other miscellaneous benefits for corporate office employees. Office and general expenses primarily include professional fees related to internal control compliance, financial statement audits and legal, information technology and other consulting services that are engaged and managed through the corporate office. Office and general expenses also include rental expense and depreciation of leasehold improvements for properties occupied by corporate office employees. A portion of centrally managed expenses are allocated to operating divisions based on a formula that uses the planned revenues of each of the operating units. Amounts allocated also include specific charges for information technology-related projects, which are allocated based on utilization.Corporate and other expenses decreased during 2015 by $7.7 to $141.8 compared to 2014, primarily due to lower temporary help. Corporate and other expenses increased during 2014 by $8.7 to $149.5 compared to 2013, primarily due to higher incentive awards expense resulting from improved financial performance and higher employee insurance costs due to increased claims and regulatory changes, partially offset by lower occupancy costs.LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESCASH FLOW OVERVIEWThe following tables summarize key financial data relating to our liquidity, capital resources and uses of capital. 1Reflects net income adjusted primarily for depreciation and amortization of fixed assets and intangible assets, amortization of restricted stock and other non-cash compensation, non-cash (gain) loss related to early extinguishment of debt, losses on sales of businesses and deferred income taxes.2Reflects changes in accounts receivable, expenditures billable to clients, other current assets, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Operating ActivitiesNet cash provided by operating activities during 2015 was $674.0, which was an improvement of $4.5 as compared to 2014, primarily as a result of an improvement in working capital usage of $13.6. Due to the seasonality of our business, we typically generate cash from working capital in the second half of a year and use cash from working capital in the first half of a year, with the largest impacts in the first and fourth quarters. Our net working capital usage in 2015 was primarily attributable to our media businesses.25Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Net cash provided by operating activities during 2014 was $669.5, which was an improvement of $76.6 as compared to 2013, primarily as a result of an increase in net income, offset by an increase in working capital usage of $121.5. Our net working capital usage in 2014 was impacted by our media businesses.The timing of media buying on behalf of our clients affects our working capital and operating cash flow. In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients. The amounts involved substantially exceed our revenues and primarily affect the level of accounts receivable, expenditures billable to clients, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Our assets include both cash received and accounts receivable from clients for these pass-through arrangements, while our liabilities include amounts owed on behalf of clients to media and production suppliers.Our accrued liabilities are also affected by the timing of certain other payments. For example, while annual cash incentive awards are accrued throughout the year, they are generally paid during the first quarter of the subsequent year.Investing ActivitiesNet cash used in investing activities during 2015 primarily related to payments for capital expenditures of $161.1, largely attributable to purchases of leasehold improvements and computer hardware.Net cash used in investing activities during 2014 primarily related to payments for capital expenditures and acquisitions. Capital expenditures of $148.7 related primarily to computer hardware and software and leasehold improvements. We made payments of $67.8 related to acquisitions completed during 2014, net of cash acquired.Financing ActivitiesNet cash used in financing activities during 2015 primarily related to the repurchase of our common stock and payment of dividends. We repurchased 13.6 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $285.2, including fees, and made dividend payments of $195.5 on our common stock.Net cash used in financing activities during 2014 primarily related to the purchase of long-term debt, the repurchase of our common stock and payment of dividends. We redeemed all $350.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 6.25% Notes, repurchased 14.9 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $275.1, including fees, and made dividend payments of $159.0 on our common stock. This was offset by the issuance of $500.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 4.20% Notes.Foreign Exchange Rate ChangesThe effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows resulted in a decrease of $156.1 in 2015. The decrease was primarily a result of the U.S. Dollar being stronger than several foreign currencies, including the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Euro and South African Rand as of December 31, 2015 compared to December 31, 2014.The effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows resulted in a decrease of $101.0 in 2014. The decrease was primarily a result of the U.S. Dollar being stronger than several foreign currencies, including the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar and Euro as of December 31, 2014 compared to December 31, 2013.LIQUIDITY OUTLOOKWe expect our cash flow from operations, cash and cash equivalents to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements at a minimum for the next twelve months. We also have a committed corporate credit facility as well as uncommitted facilities available to support our operating needs. We continue to maintain a disciplined approach to managing liquidity, with flexibility over significant uses of cash, including our capital expenditures, cash used for new acquisitions, our common stock repurchase program and our common stock dividends.26Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) From time to time, we evaluate market conditions and financing alternatives for opportunities to raise additional funds or otherwise improve our liquidity profile, enhance our financial flexibility and manage market risk. Our ability to access the capital markets depends on a number of factors, which include those specific to us, such as our credit rating, and those related to the financial markets, such as the amount or terms of available credit. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to access new sources of liquidity on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.Funding Requirements Our most significant funding requirements include our operations, non-cancelable operating lease obligations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, common stock dividends, taxes, debt service and contributions to pension and postretirement plans. Additionally, we may be required to make payments to minority shareholders in certain subsidiaries if they exercise their options to sell us their equity interests.Notable funding requirements include:  Acquisitions   We paid cash of $28.6, which was net of cash acquired of $9.2, for acquisitions completed in 2015. We also paid cash of $71.5 in deferred payments for prior-year acquisitions as well as ownership increases in our consolidated subsidiaries. In addition to potential cash expenditures for new acquisitions, we expect to pay approximately $54.0 in 2016 related to prior-year acquisitions. We may also be required to pay approximately $47.0 in 2016 related to put options held by minority shareholders if exercised. We will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities to grow and continue to strengthen our market position, particularly in our digital and marketing services offerings, and to expand our presence in high-growth and key strategic world markets. Dividends   During 2015, we paid four quarterly cash dividends of $0.12 per share on our common stock, which corresponded to an aggregate dividend payment of $195.5. On February 12, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors (the "Board") had declared a common stock cash dividend of $0.15 per share, payable on March 15, 2016 to holders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2016. Assuming we pay a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share and there is no significant change in the number of outstanding shares as of December 31, 2015, we would expect to pay approximately $242.0 over the next twelve months. Contributions to pension plans   Our funding policy regarding our pension plans is to make contributions necessary to satisfy minimum pension funding requirements, plus such additional contributions as we consider appropriate to improve the funded status of our plans. During 2015, we contributed $3.2 and $21.6 of cash to our domestic and foreign pension plans, respectively. For 2016, we expect to contribute approximately $21.0 of cash to our foreign pension plans. We expect to make no contributions to our domestic pension plan in 2016.The following summarizes our estimated contractual cash obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2015 and their effect on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. 1Amounts represent maturity at book value and interest payments based on contractual obligations. We may redeem all or some of the 2.25% Senior Notes due 2017, the 4.00% Senior Notes due 2022, the 3.75% Senior Notes due 2023 and the 4.20% Senior Notes due 2024 at the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or a "make-whole" amount, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.2Non-cancelable operating lease obligations are presented net of future receipts on contractual sublease arrangements.3We have structured certain acquisitions with additional contingent purchase price obligations based on factors including future performance of the acquired entity. See Note 4 and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.4The amounts presented are estimates due to inherent uncertainty of tax settlements, including the ability to offset liabilities with tax loss carryforwards.Share Repurchase ProgramIn February 2015, our Board authorized a new share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0, excluding fees, of our common stock (the "2015 Share Repurchase Program"), which was in addition to the remaining amount 27Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) available to be repurchased from the $300.0 authorization made by the Board in February 2014 (the "2014 Share Repurchase Program"). We fully utilized the 2014 Share Repurchase Program during the third quarter of 2015. As of December 31, 2015, $158.6 remained available for repurchase under the 2015 Share Repurchase Program.On February 12, 2016, we announced that our Board had approved a new share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0, excluding fees, of our common stock. The new authorization is in addition to any amounts remaining for repurchase under the 2015 Share Repurchase Program. There is no expiration date associated with the share repurchase programs.We may effect such repurchases through open market purchases, trading plans established in accordance with SEC rules, derivative transactions or other means. We expect to continue to repurchase our common stock in future periods, although the timing and amount of the repurchases will depend on market conditions and other funding requirements.FINANCING AND SOURCES OF FUNDSSubstantially all of our operating cash flow is generated by our agencies. Our cash balances are held in numerous jurisdictions throughout the world, primarily at the holding company level and at our largest subsidiaries. Below is a summary of our sources of liquidity.  1We are required from time to time to post letters of credit, primarily to support obligations of our subsidiaries. These letters of credit historically have not been drawn upon.At December 31, 2015, we held $677.5 of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in foreign subsidiaries. We have not provided U.S. federal income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries because we consider such earnings to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. If in the future we distribute these amounts to the United States, an additional provision for the U.S. income and foreign withholding taxes, net of foreign tax credits, could be necessary.Credit AgreementsWe maintain a committed corporate credit facility to increase our financial flexibility, which has been amended and restated from time to time (the "Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement is a revolving facility, expiring in October 2020, under which amounts borrowed by us or any of our subsidiaries designated under the Credit Agreement may be repaid and reborrowed, subject to an aggregate lending limit of $1,000.0, or the equivalent in other currencies. The Company has the ability to increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement from time to time by an additional amount of up to $250.0, provided the Company receives commitments for such increases and satisfies certain other conditions. The aggregate available amount of letters of credit outstanding may decrease or increase, subject to a sublimit on letters of credit of $200.0 or the equivalent in other currencies. We use our Credit Agreement to provide letters of credit primarily to support obligations of our subsidiaries. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured.Under the Credit Agreement, we can elect to receive advances bearing interest based on either the base rate or the Eurocurrency rate (each as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin that is determined based on our credit ratings. As of December 31, 2015, the applicable margin was 0.30% for base rate advances and 1.30% for Eurocurrency rate advances. Letter of credit fees accrue on the average daily aggregate amount of letters of credit outstanding, at a rate equal to the applicable margin for Eurocurrency rate advances, and fronting fees accrue on the aggregate amount of letters of credit outstanding at an annual rate of 0.25%. We also pay a facility fee at an annual rate that is determined based on our credit ratings, which as of December 31, 2015, was 0.20% on the aggregate lending commitment under the Credit Agreement.28Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The table below sets forth the financial covenants in effect as of December 31, 2015. Four Quarters Ended  Four Quarters EndedFinancial CovenantsDecember 31, 2015 EBITDA ReconciliationDecember 31, 2015Interest coverage ratio (not less than) 15.00x Operating income$871.9Actual interest coverage ratio19.06x Add: Leverage ratio (not greater than) 13.50x Depreciation and amortization227.3Actual leverage ratio1.60x Other non-cash amounts0.5   EBITDA 1$1,099.7  1The interest coverage ratio is defined as EBITDA, as defined in the Credit Agreement, to net interest expense. The leverage ratio is defined as debt as of the last day of such fiscal quarter to EBITDA for the four quarters then ended.As of December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with all of our covenants in the Credit Agreement. If we were unable to comply with our covenants in the future, we would seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders, but there is no assurance that our lenders would grant an amendment or waiver. If we were unable to obtain the necessary amendment or waiver, the credit facility could be terminated and our lenders could accelerate payments of any outstanding principal. In addition, under those circumstances we could be required to deposit funds with one of our lenders in an amount equal to any outstanding letters of credit under the credit facility.We also have uncommitted credit facilities with various banks that permit borrowings at variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2015, there were borrowings under some of the uncommitted facilities to manage working capital needs. We have guaranteed the repayment of some of these borrowings made by certain subsidiaries. If we lose access to these credit lines, we would have to provide funding directly to some of our international operations. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding balances under the uncommitted credit facilities as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 3% and 5%, respectively.Cash PoolingWe aggregate our domestic cash position on a daily basis. Outside the United States, we use cash pooling arrangements with banks to help manage our liquidity requirements. In these pooling arrangements, several IPG agencies agree with a single bank that the cash balances of any of the agencies with the bank will be subject to a full right of set-off against amounts the other agencies owe the bank, and the bank provides for overdrafts as long as the net balance for all the agencies does not exceed an agreed-upon level. Typically, each agency pays interest on outstanding overdrafts and receives interest on cash balances. Our Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect cash, net of bank overdrafts, under all of our pooling arrangements, and as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 the amounts netted were $1,608.3 and $1,590.7, respectively.DEBT CREDIT RATINGSOur long-term debt credit ratings as of February 16, 2016 are listed below. Moody s InvestorService Standard andPoor s Fitch RatingsRatingBaa3 BBB- BBBOutlookStable Stable StableWe are rated investment-grade by Moody's Investor Services ("Moody's"), Standard and Poor's and Fitch Ratings. The most recent update to our credit ratings occurred in April 2015, when Standard & Poor's changed our long-term credit rating from BB+ to BBB-. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning credit rating agency. The rating of each credit rating agency should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Credit ratings could have an impact on liquidity, either adverse or favorable, including, among other things, because they could affect funding costs in the capital markets or otherwise. For example, our Credit Agreement fees and borrowing rates are based on a credit ratings grid.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATESOur Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the accompanying financial statements and footnotes. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following critical accounting estimates involve management s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. We consider these accounting estimates to be critical because changes in the underlying 29Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) assumptions or estimates have the potential to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Management has discussed with our Audit Committee the development, selection, application and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates. We regularly evaluate our judgments, assumptions and estimates based on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be relevant under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.Revenue RecognitionOur revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. Our client contracts are complex arrangements that may include provisions for incentive compensation and vendor rebates and credits. Our largest clients are multinational entities, and, as such, we often provide services to these clients out of multiple offices and across many of our agencies. In arranging for such services, it is possible that we will enter into global, regional and local agreements. Agreements of this nature are reviewed by legal counsel to determine the governing terms to be followed by the offices and agencies involved. Critical judgments and estimates are involved in determining both the amount and timing of revenue recognition under these arrangements.Revenue for our services is recognized when all of the following criteria are satisfied:  (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) the price is fixed or determinable; (iii) collectability is reasonably assured; and (iv) services have been performed. Depending on the terms of a client contract, fees for services performed can be recognized in three principal ways:  proportional performance (input or output), straight-line (or monthly basis) or completed contract.Depending on the terms of the client contract, revenue is derived from diverse arrangements involving fees for services performed, commissions, performance incentive provisions and combinations of the three. Commissions are generally earned on the date of the broadcast or publication. Contractual arrangements with clients may also include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to either qualitative or quantitative goals, or both. Performance incentives are recognized as revenue for quantitative targets when the target has been achieved and for qualitative targets when confirmation of the incentive is received from the client. The classification of client arrangements to determine the appropriate revenue recognition involves judgments. If the judgments change there can be a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, and particularly on the allocation of revenues between periods.The majority of our revenue is recorded as the net amount of our gross billings less pass-through expenses charged to a client. In most cases, the amount that is billed to clients significantly exceeds the amount of revenue that is earned and reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements because of various pass-through expenses, such as production and media costs. We assess whether our agency or the third-party supplier is the primary obligor, and we evaluate the terms of our client agreements as part of this assessment. In addition, we give appropriate consideration to other key indicators such as latitude in establishing price, discretion in supplier selection and credit risk to the vendor. Because we operate broadly as an advertising agency, based on our primary lines of business and given the industry practice to generally record revenue on a net versus gross basis, we believe that there must be strong evidence in place to overcome the presumption of net revenue accounting. Accordingly, we generally record revenue net of pass-through charges as we believe the key indicators of the business suggest we generally act as an agent on behalf of our clients in our primary lines of business. In those businesses where the key indicators suggest we act as a principal (primarily sales promotion and event, sports and entertainment marketing), we record the gross amount billed to the client as revenue and the related incremental direct costs incurred as office and general expenses. In general, we also report revenue net of taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are directly imposed on our revenue-producing transactions.As we provide services as part of our core operations, we generally incur incidental expenses, which, in practice, are commonly referred to as  out-of-pocket  expenses. These expenses often include expenses related to airfare, mileage, hotel stays, out-of-town meals and telecommunication charges. We record the reimbursements received for such incidental expenses as revenue with a corresponding offset to office and general expense.The determination as to whether revenue in a particular line of business should be recognized net or gross involves complex judgments. If we make these judgments differently it could significantly affect our reported results. If it were determined that we must recognize a significant portion of revenues on a gross basis rather than a net basis it would positively impact revenues, have no impact on our operating income and have an adverse impact on operating margin.We receive credits from our vendors and media outlets for transactions entered into on behalf of our clients that, based on the terms of our contracts and local law, are either remitted to our clients or retained by us. If amounts are to be passed through to clients, they are recorded as liabilities until settlement or, if retained by us, are recorded as revenue when earned.In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued amended guidance on revenue recognition which requires an entity to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects 30Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In July 2015, the FASB affirmed its proposal to delay the effective date of the new standard by one year to January 1, 2018, with early adoption to be permitted as of the original effective date of January 1, 2017.The new standard includes a number of changes compared to the current standard, the most significant to IPG is the requirement to estimate the amount of variable consideration, included in our contracts, that will most likely be earned and recognize that consideration over the term of the contract. This will likely result in an acceleration in revenue recognition for certain variable contract incentives. While we are still assessing what impact the adoption of the amended guidance will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements, we expect that the primary impact of the change will be in the timing of revenue recognition within the quarters of a fiscal year. We have not yet determined the date or method of transition that we will select.Income TaxesThe provision for income taxes includes U.S. federal, state, local and foreign taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be reversed. Changes to enacted tax rates would result in either increases or decreases in the provision for income taxes in the period of change.We are required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets, which is primarily dependent on future earnings. A valuation allowance shall be recognized when, based on available evidence, it is  more likely than not  that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The factors used in assessing valuation allowances include all available evidence, such as past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In circumstances where there is negative evidence, establishment of a valuation allowance must be considered. We believe that cumulative losses in the most recent three-year period represent significant negative evidence when evaluating a decision to establish a valuation allowance. Conversely, a pattern of sustained profitability represents significant positive evidence when evaluating a decision to reverse a valuation allowance. Further, in those cases where a pattern of sustained profitability exists, projected future taxable income may also represent positive evidence, to the extent that such projections are determined to be reliable given the current economic environment. Accordingly, the increase and decrease of valuation allowances has had and could have a significant negative or positive impact on our current and future earnings.The authoritative guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement criteria for the financial statement reporting of a tax position that an entity takes or expects to take in a tax return. Additionally, guidance is provided for de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The assessment of recognition and measurement requires critical estimates and the use of complex judgments. We evaluate our tax positions using the  more likely than not  recognition threshold and then apply a measurement assessment to those positions that meet the recognition threshold. We have established tax reserves that we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments in each of the jurisdictions in which we are subject to taxation. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional tax assessments in those jurisdictions and adjust our reserves as additional information or events require.Goodwill and Other Intangible AssetsWe account for our business combinations using the acquisition accounting method, which requires us to determine the fair value of net assets acquired and the related goodwill and other intangible assets. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management's judgment and involves the use of significant estimates, including projections of future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples. Considering the characteristics of advertising, specialized marketing and communication services companies, our acquisitions usually do not have significant amounts of tangible assets, as the principal asset we typically acquire is creative talent. As a result, a substantial portion of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets.We review goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization as of October 1st each year and whenever events or significant changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill at a reporting unit level. We have 12 reporting units that were subject to the 2015 annual impairment testing. Our annual impairment review as of October 1, 2015 did not result in an impairment charge at any of our reporting units. In performing our annual impairment review, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is  more likely than not  that the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. Qualitative factors to consider may include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors that may have a negative effect on earnings, financial performance, and other relevant entity-specific events such as changes in management, key personnel, strategy or clients, as well as pending litigation. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances such as those described above, an entity determines that it is "more likely than not" that the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is required to determine 31Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) the fair value and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying value. Otherwise, no additional testing is required.For reporting units not included in the qualitative assessment, or for any reporting units identified in the qualitative assessment as "more likely than not" that the fair value is less than its carrying value, the first step of the quantitative impairment test is performed. For our annual impairment test, we compare the respective fair value of our reporting units' equity to the carrying value of their net assets. The first step is a comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. The sum of the fair values of all our reporting units is reconciled to our current market capitalization plus an estimated control premium. Goodwill allocated to a reporting unit whose fair value is equal to or greater than its carrying value is not impaired, and no further testing is required. Should the carrying amount for a reporting unit exceed its fair value, then the first step of the quantitative impairment test is failed and the magnitude of any goodwill impairment is determined under the second step, which is a comparison of the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill to its carrying value. The implied fair value of goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over its carrying value, excluding goodwill. Impaired goodwill is written down to its implied fair value with a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified.For our 2015 and 2014 annual impairment tests, we performed a qualitative impairment assessment for ten and nine reporting units and performed the first step of a two-step quantitative impairment test for two and four reporting units, respectively. For the qualitative analysis we took into consideration all the relevant events and circumstances, including financial performance, macroeconomic conditions and entity-specific factors such as client wins and losses. Based on this assessment, we have concluded that for each of our reporting units subject to the qualitative assessment, it is not  more likely than not  that its fair value was less than its carrying value; therefore, no additional testing was required.The 2015 and 2014 fair values of reporting units for which we performed quantitative impairment tests were estimated using a combination of the income approach, which incorporates the use of the discounted cash flow method, and the market approach, which incorporates the use of earnings and revenue multiples based on market data. We generally applied an equal weighting to the income and market approaches for our analysis. For the income approach, we used projections, which require the use of significant estimates and assumptions specific to the reporting unit as well as those based on general economic conditions. Factors specific to each reporting unit include revenue growth, profit margins, terminal value growth rates, capital expenditures projections, assumed tax rates, discount rates and other assumptions deemed reasonable by management. For the market approach, we used judgment in identifying the relevant comparable-company market multiples.These estimates and assumptions may vary between each reporting unit depending on the facts and circumstances specific to that unit. The discount rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit. For the 2015 test, the discount rate we used for our reporting units tested was 11.0%, and the terminal value growth rate for both reporting units tested was 3.0%. The terminal value growth rate represents the expected long-term growth rate for the advertising and marketing services industry, incorporating the type of services the reporting unit provides, and the global economy. For the 2015 test, the revenue growth rates for our reporting units used in our analysis were generally between 4.0% and 6.0%. Factors influencing the revenue growth rates include the nature of the services the reporting unit provides for its clients, the geographic locations in which the reporting unit conducts business and the maturity of the reporting unit. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we made are reasonable, but they are susceptible to change from period to period. Actual results of operations, cash flows and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our valuation, and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. A deterioration in profitability, adverse market conditions, significant client losses, changes in spending levels of our existing clients or a different economic outlook than currently estimated by management could have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and could result in an impairment charge in the future.We also perform a sensitivity analysis to detail the impact that changes in assumptions may have on the outcome of the first step of the impairment test. Our sensitivity analysis provides a range of fair value for each reporting unit, where the low end of the range reduces growth rates by 0.25% and increases discount rates by 0.5%, and the high end of the range increases growth rates by 0.25% and decreases discount rates by 0.5%. We use the average of our fair values for purposes of our comparison between carrying value and fair value for the first step of the quantitative impairment test.The table below displays the goodwill midpoint of the range for each reporting unit tested in the 2015 and 2014 annual impairment tests. Our results of the comparison between carrying value and fair value at the average fair value indicated that for the 2015 and 2014 test there were no reporting units whose fair value exceeded its carrying value by less than 20%.32Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Additionally, we performed a sensitivity analysis and reviewed the carrying values compared to the high end and low end of the valuation range. The table below displays the range of the sensitivity analysis for each reporting unit tested in the 2015 and 2014 annual impairment tests. For both the 2015 and 2014 tests, using the low end of the valuation range, there were no reporting units whose fair value exceeded its carrying value by less than 20%. Based on the analysis described above, for the reporting units for which we performed the first step of the quantitative impairment test, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired as of October 1, 2015, because these reporting units passed the first step of the test as the fair values of each of the reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective net book values.We review intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization whenever events or circumstances indicate that a carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the carrying value of these assets to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by these assets. These assets are impaired when their carrying value exceeds their fair value. Impaired intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization are written down to their fair value with a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis with estimated useful lives generally between 7 and 15 years. Events or circumstances that might require impairment testing include the loss of a significant client, the identification of other impaired assets within a reporting unit, loss of key personnel, the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, significant decline in stock price or a significant adverse change in business climate or regulations.Pension and Postretirement Benefit PlansWe use various actuarial assumptions in determining our net pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations. Management is required to make significant judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates and expected returns on plan assets, which are updated annually or more frequently with the occurrence of significant events.The discount rate is a significant assumption that impacts our net pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations. We determine our discount rates for our domestic pension and postretirement benefit plans and significant foreign pension plans based on either a bond selection/settlement approach or bond yield curve approach. Using the bond selection/settlement approach, we determine the discount rate by selecting a portfolio of corporate bonds appropriate to provide for the projected benefit payments. Using the bond yield curve approach, we determine the discount rate by matching the plans' cash flows to spot rates developed from a yield curve. Both approaches utilize high-quality AA-rated corporate bonds and the plans' projected cash flows to develop a discounted value of the benefit payments, which is then used to develop a single discount rate. In countries where markets for high-quality long-term AA corporate bonds are not well developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a basis to develop hypothetical corporate bond yields, which serve as a basis to derive the discount rate.The discount rate used to calculate net pension and postretirement benefit costs is determined at the beginning of each year. For the year ended December 31, 2015, discount rates of 4.15% for the domestic pension plan and 4.00% for the postretirement benefit plan and a weighted-average discount rate of 3.41% for the significant foreign pension plans were used to calculate 2015 net pension and postretirement benefit costs. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would have decreased or increased the 2015 net pension and postretirement benefit cost by approximately $1.0.33Table of ContentsManagement s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - (continued)(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The discount rate used to measure our benefit obligations is determined at the end of each year. As of December 31, 2015, we used discount rates of 4.80% for the domestic pension plan and 4.65% for the domestic postretirement benefit plan and a weighted-average discount rate of 3.61% for our significant foreign pension plans to measure our benefit obligations. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would have decreased or increased the December 31, 2015 benefit obligation by approximately $24.0 and $26.0, respectively.The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is another significant assumption that impacts our net pension cost and is determined at the beginning of the year. Our expected rate of return considers asset class index returns over various market and economic conditions, current and expected market conditions, risk premiums associated with asset classes and long-term inflation rates. We determine both a short-term and long-term view and then select a long-term rate of return assumption that matches the duration of our liabilities.For 2015, the weighted-average expected rates of return of 7.00% and 5.01% were used in the calculation of net pension costs for the domestic and significant foreign pension plans, respectively. For 2016, we plan to use expected rates of return of 7.00% and 5.43% for the domestic and significant foreign pension plans, respectively. Changes in the rates are typically due to lower or higher expected future returns based on the mix of assets held. A lower expected rate of return would increase our net pension cost. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have decreased or increased the 2015 net pension cost by approximately $1.0.RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDSSee Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on certain accounting standards that have been adopted during 2015 or that have not yet been required to be implemented and may be applicable to our future operations.34Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk(Amounts in millions)In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks related to interest rates, foreign currency rates and certain balance sheet items. From time to time, we use derivative instruments, pursuant to established guidelines and policies, to manage some portion of these risks. Derivative instruments utilized in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for trading or speculative purposes.Interest RatesOur exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the fair market value and cash flows of our debt obligations. The majority of our debt (approximately 89% and 91% as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively) bears interest at fixed rates. We do have debt with variable interest rates, but a 10% increase or decrease in interest rates would not be material to our interest expense or cash flows. The fair market value of our debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates, and the impact of a 10% change in interest rates is summarized below.We have used interest rate swaps for risk management purposes to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. We do not have any interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2015.We had $1,509.7 of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2015 that we generally invest in conservative, short-term bank deposits or securities. The interest income generated from these investments is subject to both domestic and foreign interest rate movements. During 2015 and 2014, we had interest income of $22.8 and $27.4, respectively. Based on our 2015 results, a 100-basis-point increase or decrease in interest rates would affect our interest income by approximately $15.0, assuming that all cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are impacted in the same manner and balances remain constant from year-end 2015 levels.Foreign Currency RatesWe are subject to translation and transaction risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Since we report revenues and expenses in U.S. Dollars, changes in exchange rates may either positively or negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in U.S. Dollars) from foreign operations. The primary foreign currencies that impacted our results during 2015 included the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling and Euro. Based on 2015 exchange rates and operating results, if the U.S. Dollar were to strengthen or weaken by 10%, we currently estimate operating income would decrease or increase approximately 4%, assuming that all currencies are impacted in the same manner and our international revenue and expenses remain constant at 2015 levels.The functional currency of our foreign operations is generally their respective local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates during the period presented. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the stockholders  equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in their functional currency, mitigating transaction risk. However, certain subsidiaries may enter into transactions in currencies other than their functional currency. Assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are susceptible to movements in foreign currency until final settlement. Currency transaction gains or losses primarily arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included in office and general expenses. We regularly review our foreign exchange exposures that may have a material impact on our business and from time to time use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of potential adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates arising from these exposures. We do not enter into foreign exchange contracts or other derivatives for speculative purposes.We monitor the currencies of countries in which we operate in order to determine if the country should be considered a highly inflationary environment. A currency is determined to be highly inflationary when there is cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. If this occurs the functional currency of that country would be changed to our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar, and foreign exchange gains or losses would be recognized on all monetary transactions, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar until the currency is no longer considered highly inflationary.35Credit and Market RisksBalance sheet items that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients. We invest our cash primarily in investment-grade, short-term securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are mitigated by our large number of clients and their dispersion across different industries and geographic areas. We perform ongoing credit evaluations on a large number of our clients and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the expected collectability of all accounts receivable.Our pension plan assets are also exposed to market risk. The fair value of our pension plan assets may appreciate or depreciate during the year, which can result in lower or higher pension expense and funding requirements in future periods.36Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary DataINDEX   PageReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm38  Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 201339  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 201340  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 201441  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 201342  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 201343  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements45  1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies452.   Debt and Credit Arrangements503.   Earnings Per Share524.   Acquisitions535.   Supplementary Data546.   Intangible Assets577.   Income Taxes578.   Restructuring and Other Reorganization-Related (Reversals) Charges, Net619.   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Net of Tax6110. Incentive Compensation Plans6211. Fair Value Measurements6512. Employee Benefits6713. Segment Information7214. Commitments and Contingencies7415. Recent Accounting Standards7516. Results by Quarter (Unaudited)7717. Subsequent Events7737REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMTo the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and the related Consolidated Statements of Operations, of Comprehensive Income, of Cash Flows, and of Stockholders  Equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., and its subsidiaries, at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it classifies deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2015.A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate./s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLPNew York, New YorkFebruary 22, 201638THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.39THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Amounts in Millions) Years ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013NET INCOME$480.5 $505.4 $288.9      OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     Foreign currency translation adjustments(256.8) (194.3) (116.9)Less: reclassification adjustments recognized in net income23.3 (0.9) 0.0Income tax effect0.0 0.0 (0.6) (233.5) (195.2) (117.5)      Available-for-sale securities:     Changes in market value of available-for-sale securities0.5 0.7 0.8Less: recognition of previously unrealized (gains) losses included in net income0.0 0.0 (1.4)Income tax effect0.0 (0.3) 0.2 0.5 0.4 (0.4)      Derivative instruments:     Changes in fair value of derivative instruments0.0 (0.6) 0.0Less: recognition of previously unrealized losses included in net income2.0 1.9 1.7Income tax effect(0.7) (0.5) (0.7) 1.3 0.8 1.0      Defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans:     Net actuarial gains (losses) for the period14.2 (55.5) (20.6)Less: amortization of unrecognized losses, transition obligation and      prior service cost included in net income10.6 10.0 10.8Less: settlement and curtailment (gains) losses included in net income(0.2) 0.5 (0.1)Other0.4 0.5 1.0Income tax effect(6.4) 10.4 (1.3) 18.6 (34.1) (10.2)      Other comprehensive loss, net of tax(213.1) (228.1) (127.1)TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME267.4 277.3 161.8Less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest21.7 25.7 17.1COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO IPG$245.7 $251.6 $144.7The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.40THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS(Amounts in Millions)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.41THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(Amounts in Millions)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.42THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY(Amounts in Millions)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.43THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY(Amounts in Millions)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.44Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesBusiness DescriptionThe Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company,   IPG,   we,   us  or  our ) is one of the world s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Our agencies create customized marketing programs for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world, as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services and gain market share in an increasingly complex and fragmented media landscape.Principles of ConsolidationThe Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, some of which are not wholly owned. Investments in companies over which we do not have control, but have the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Investments in companies over which we have neither control nor have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the cost method. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.We have consolidated certain entities meeting the definition of variable interest entities, and the inclusion of these entities does not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.ReclassificationsCertain reclassifications have been made to the prior period financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation. Use of EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the reporting date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions.Revenue RecognitionOur revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work that is typically completed during the fourth quarter.Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.Our client contracts are complex arrangements that may include provisions for incentive compensation and vendor rebates and credits. Our largest clients are multinational entities and, as such, we often provide services to these clients out of multiple offices and across many of our agencies. In arranging for such services, it is possible that we will enter into global, regional and local agreements. Agreements of this nature are reviewed by legal counsel to determine the governing terms to be followed by the offices and agencies involved.Revenue for our services is recognized when all of the following criteria are satisfied:  (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) the price is fixed or determinable; (iii) collectability is reasonably assured; and (iv) services have been performed. Depending on the terms of a client contract, fees for services performed can be recognized in three principal ways: proportional performance (input or output), straight-line (or monthly basis) or completed contract. Fees are generally recognized as earned based on the proportional performance input method of revenue recognition in situations where our fee is reconcilable to the actual hours incurred to service the client as detailed in a contractual staffing plan, where the fee is earned on a per hour basis or where actual hours incurred are provided to the client on a periodic basis (whether or not the fee is reconcilable), with the amount of revenue recognized in these situations limited to the amount realizable under the client contract. We believe an input-based measure (the  hour ) is appropriate in situations where the client arrangement essentially functions as a time and out-of-pocket expense contract and the client receives the benefit of the services provided throughout the contract term.45Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Fees are recognized on a straight-line or monthly basis when service is provided essentially on a pro-rata basis and the terms of the contract support monthly basis accounting. Certain fees (such as for major marketing events) are deferred until contract completion if the final act is so significant in relation to the service transaction taken as a whole or if any of the terms of the contract do not otherwise qualify for proportional performance or monthly basis recognition. Fees may also be deferred and recognized upon delivery of a project if the terms of the client contract identify individual discrete projects.Depending on the terms of the client contract, revenue is derived from diverse arrangements involving fees for services performed, commissions, performance incentive provisions and combinations of the three. Commissions are generally earned on the date of the broadcast or publication. Contractual arrangements with clients may also include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to either qualitative or quantitative goals, or both. Performance incentives are recognized as revenue for quantitative targets when the target has been achieved and for qualitative targets when confirmation of the incentive is received from the client.The majority of our revenue is recorded as the net amount of our gross billings less pass-through expenses charged to a client. In most cases, the amount that is billed to clients significantly exceeds the amount of revenue that is earned and reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements because of various pass-through expenses, such as production and media costs. We assess whether our agency or the third-party supplier is the primary obligor, and we evaluate the terms of our client agreements as part of this assessment. In addition, we give appropriate consideration to other key indicators such as latitude in establishing price, discretion in supplier selection and credit risk to the vendor. Because we operate broadly as an advertising agency, based on our primary lines of business and given the industry practice to generally record revenue on a net versus gross basis, we believe that there must be strong evidence in place to overcome the presumption of net revenue accounting. Accordingly, we generally record revenue net of pass-through charges as we believe the key indicators of the business suggest we generally act as an agent on behalf of our clients in our primary lines of business. In those businesses where the key indicators suggest we act as a principal (primarily sales promotion and event, sports and entertainment marketing), we record the gross amount billed to the client as revenue and the related incremental direct costs incurred as office and general expenses. In general, we also report revenue net of taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are directly imposed on our revenue-producing transactions.As we provide services as part of our core operations, we generally incur incidental expenses, which, in practice, are commonly referred to as  out-of-pocket  expenses. These expenses often include expenses related to airfare, mileage, hotel stays, out-of-town meals and telecommunication charges. We record the reimbursements received for such incidental expenses as revenue with a corresponding offset to office and general expense.We receive credits from our vendors and media outlets for transactions entered into on behalf of our clients that, based on the terms of our contracts and local law, are either remitted to our clients or retained by us. If amounts are to be passed through to clients, they are recorded as liabilities until settlement or, if retained by us, are recorded as revenue when earned. Cash and Cash EquivalentsCash equivalents are highly liquid investments, which include certificates of deposit, government securities, commercial paper and time deposits with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are stated at estimated fair value, which approximates cost. Cash is maintained at multiple high-credit-quality financial institutions.Short-Term Marketable SecuritiesShort-term marketable securities include investment-grade time deposits, commercial paper and government securities with maturities greater than three months but less than twelve months. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, which is a component of stockholders  equity. The cost of securities is determined based upon the average cost of the securities sold.Allowance for Doubtful AccountsThe allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on the aging of accounts receivable, reviews of client credit reports, industry trends and economic indicators, as well as reviews of recent payment history for specific customers. The estimate is based largely on a formula-driven calculation but is supplemented with economic indicators and knowledge of potential write-offs of specific client accounts.46Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Expenditures Billable to ClientsExpenditures billable to clients are primarily comprised of production and media costs that have been incurred but have not yet been billed to clients, as well as fees that have been earned which have not yet been billed to clients. Unbilled amounts are presented in expenditures billable to clients regardless of whether they relate to our fees or production and media costs. A provision is made for unrecoverable costs as deemed appropriate.Accounts PayableAccounts payable includes all operating payables, including those related to all media and production costs. These payables are due within one year.InvestmentsOur investments in publicly traded companies over which we do not exert a significant influence are classified as available-for-sale. These investments are reported at fair value based on quoted market prices with net unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Our non-publicly traded investments and all other publicly traded investments, including investments to fund certain deferred compensation and retirement obligations, are accounted for using the equity method or cost method. We do not disclose the fair value for equity method investments or investments held at cost as it is not practical to estimate fair value since there is no readily available market data and it is cost prohibitive to obtain independent valuations. We regularly review our equity and cost method investments to determine whether a significant event or change in circumstances has occurred that may impact the fair value of each investment. In the event a decline in fair value of an investment occurs, we determine if the decline has been other-than-temporary. We consider our investments strategic and long-term in nature, so we determine if the fair value decline is recoverable within a reasonable period. For our investments, we evaluate fair value based on specific information (valuation methodologies, estimates of appraisals, financial statements, etc.) in addition to quoted market price, if available. We consider all known quantitative and qualitative factors in determining if an other-than-temporary decline in value of an investment has occurred.DerivativesWe are exposed to market risk related to interest rates, foreign currency rates and certain balance sheet items. From time to time we enter into derivative instruments for risk management purposes, and not for speculative purposes. All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value on our balance sheet. Changes in fair value are immediately included in earnings if the derivatives are not designated as a hedge instrument or if the derivatives do not qualify as effective hedges. For derivatives designated as hedge instruments, we evaluate for hedge accounting both at inception and throughout the hedge period. If a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, then changes in the fair value of the derivative are offset against the changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item. If a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, then the effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to earnings in our Consolidated Statement of Operations in the same period as the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings.Property and EquipmentFurniture, equipment, leasehold improvements and buildings are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Furniture and equipment are depreciated generally using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from 3 to 7 years for furniture and equipment, 10 to 35 years for buildings and the shorter of the useful life or the remaining lease term for leasehold improvements. Land is stated at cost and is not depreciated.We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software, principally related to our enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) systems. Our ERP systems are stated at cost, net of accumulated amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over 10 years. All other internal use computer software are stated at cost, net of accumulated amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from 3 to 7 years.Goodwill and Other Intangible AssetsWe account for our business combinations using the acquisition accounting method, which requires us to determine the fair value of net assets acquired and the related goodwill and other intangible assets. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management's judgment and involves the use of significant estimates, including projections of future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples. Considering the characteristics of advertising, specialized marketing and communication services companies, our acquisitions usually do not have significant amounts of tangible 47Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)assets, as the principal asset we typically acquire is creative talent. As a result, a substantial portion of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets.We review goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization as of October 1st each year and whenever events or significant changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill at a reporting unit level. We have 12 reporting units that were subject to the 2015 annual impairment testing. Our annual impairment review as of October 1, 2015 did not result in an impairment charge for any of our reporting units. For reporting units not included in the qualitative assessment, or for any reporting units identified in the qualitative assessment as "more likely than not" that the fair value is less than its carrying value, the first step of the quantitative impairment test is performed. For our annual impairment test, we compare the respective fair value of our reporting units' equity to the carrying value of their net assets. The first step is a comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. The sum of the fair values of all our reporting units is reconciled to our current market capitalization plus an estimated control premium. Goodwill allocated to a reporting unit whose fair value is equal to or greater than its carrying value is not impaired, and no further testing is required. Should the carrying amount for a reporting unit exceed its fair value, then the first step of the quantitative impairment test is failed and the magnitude of any goodwill impairment is determined under the second step, which is a comparison of the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill to its carrying value. The implied fair value of goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over its carrying value, excluding goodwill. Impaired goodwill is written down to its implied fair value with a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified.The fair value of a reporting unit for 2015 and 2014 was estimated using a combination of the income approach, which incorporates the use of the discounted cash flow method, and the market approach, which incorporates the use of earnings and revenue multiples based on market data.We review intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization whenever events or circumstances indicate that a carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the carrying value of these assets to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by these assets. These assets are impaired when their carrying value exceeds their fair value. Impaired intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization are written down to their fair value with a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis with estimated useful lives generally between 7 and 15 years. Events or circumstances that might require impairment testing include the loss of a significant client, the identification of other impaired assets within a reporting unit, loss of key personnel, the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, significant decline in stock price or a significant adverse change in business climate or regulations.Foreign CurrenciesThe functional currency of our foreign operations is generally their respective local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates during the period presented. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the stockholders  equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Currency transaction gains or losses primarily arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included in office and general expenses. Foreign currency transactions resulted in a pre-tax gain of $2.0 in 2015 and pre-tax losses of $1.4 and $0.6 in 2014 and 2013, respectively.We monitor the currencies of countries in which we operate in order to determine if the country should be considered a highly inflationary environment. A currency is determined to be highly inflationary when there is cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. If this occurs the functional currency of that country would be changed to our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar, and foreign exchange gains or losses would be recognized on all monetary transactions, assets and liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar until the currency is no longer considered highly inflationary.Income TaxesThe provision for income taxes includes U.S. federal, state, local and foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be reversed. We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance when it is  more likely than not  that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We evaluate our tax positions using the  more likely than not  recognition threshold and then apply a measurement assessment to those positions that meet the recognition threshold. The factors used in assessing valuation allowances include all available evidence, such as past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. We have established tax reserves that we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments in each of the jurisdictions in which we are subject to taxation. We regularly 48Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)assess the likelihood of additional tax assessments in those jurisdictions and adjust our reserves as additional information or events require.Redeemable Noncontrolling InterestsMany of our acquisitions include provisions under which the noncontrolling equity owners can require us to purchase additional interests in a subsidiary at their discretion. Payments for these redeemable noncontrolling interests may be contingent on projected operating performance and satisfying other conditions specified in the related agreements. These payments are also subject to revision in accordance with the terms of the agreements. We record these redeemable noncontrolling interests in  mezzanine equity  in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Each reporting period, redeemable noncontrolling interests are reported at their estimated redemption value, but not less than their initial fair value. Any adjustment to the redemption value above initial value prior to exercise will also impact retained earnings or additional paid-in capital, but will not impact net income. Adjustments as a result of currency translation will affect the redeemable noncontrolling interest balance, but do not impact retained earnings or additional paid-in capital.Earnings Per Share ( EPS )Basic EPS available to IPG common stockholders equals net income available to IPG common stockholders divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted EPS equals net income available to IPG common stockholders adjusted to exclude, if dilutive, preferred stock dividends, interest expense related to potentially dilutive securities calculated using the effective interest rate method and the benefit from the preferred stock repurchased, divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding, plus any additional common shares that would have been outstanding if potentially dilutive shares had been issued.Diluted EPS reflect the potential dilution that would occur if certain potentially dilutive securities or debt obligations were exercised or converted into common stock. The potential issuance of common stock is assumed to occur at the beginning of the year (or at the time of issuance of the potentially dilutive instrument, if later) and the incremental shares are included using the treasury stock or  if-converted  method. The proceeds utilized in applying the treasury stock method consist of the amount, if any, to be paid upon exercise and, as it relates to stock-based compensation, the amount of compensation cost attributed to future service not yet recognized and any tax benefits credited to additional paid-in-capital related to the exercise. These proceeds are then assumed to be used to purchase common stock at the average market price of our stock during the period. The incremental shares (difference between the shares assumed to be issued and the shares assumed to be purchased), to the extent they would have been dilutive, are included in the denominator of the diluted EPS calculation.We may be required to calculate basic EPS using the two-class method as a result of our redeemable noncontrolling interests. To the extent that the redemption value increases and exceeds the then-current fair value of a redeemable noncontrolling interest, net income available to IPG common stockholders (used to calculate EPS) could be negatively impacted by that increase, subject to certain limitations. The partial or full recovery of any reductions to net income available to IPG common stockholders (used to calculate EPS) is limited to any cumulative prior-period reductions. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, there was no impact to EPS for adjustments related to our redeemable noncontrolling interests.Pension and Postretirement BenefitsWe have pension and postretirement benefit plans covering certain domestic and international employees. We use various actuarial methods and assumptions in determining our net pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations, including the discount rate used to determine the present value of future benefits, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and healthcare cost trend rates. The overfunded or underfunded status of our pension and postretirement benefit plans is recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.Stock-Based CompensationCompensation costs related to share-based transactions, including employee stock options, are recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements based on fair value. Stock-based compensation expense is generally recognized ratably over the requisite service period based on the estimated grant-date fair value, net of estimated forfeitures.Treasury StockWe account for repurchased common stock under the cost method and include such treasury stock as a component of our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity. Upon retirement, we reduce common stock for the par value of the shares being retired and the excess of the cost of the shares over par value as a reduction to additional paid-in capital ("APIC"), to the extent 49Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)there is APIC in the same class of stock, and any remaining amount to retained earnings. These retired shares remain authorized but unissued. In October 2015, we retired 11.3 shares of our treasury stock, which resulted in a reduction in common stock of $1.2, treasury stock of $233.2 and APIC of $232.0. There was no effect on total stockholders' equity as a result of the retirement. In November 2014, we retired 121.9 shares of our treasury stock, which resulted in a reduction in common stock of $12.2, treasury stock of $1,522.4 and APIC of $1,510.2. There was no effect on total stockholders' equity as a result of the retirement.Note 2:  Debt and Credit ArrangementsLong-Term DebtA summary of the carrying amounts and fair values of our long-term debt is listed below. 1See Note 11 for information on the fair value measurement of our long-term debt.Annual maturities are scheduled as follows based on the book value as of December 31, 2015.For those debt securities that have a premium or discount at the time of issuance, we amortize the amount through interest expense based on the maturity date or the first date the holders may require us to repurchase the debt securities, if applicable. A premium would result in a decrease in interest expense and a discount would result in an increase in interest expense in future periods. Additionally, we have debt issuance costs related to certain financing transactions which are also amortized through interest expense. In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-03 which requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt liability rather than as separate assets on the balance sheet. The FASB later issued guidance in August 2015 stating that debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit arrangements may be presented as an asset and subsequently amortized ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on the line-of-credit arrangement. We have adopted this amended guidance as of the quarter ended December 31, 2015. As a result of this adoption, $8.9 and $10.6 of debt issuance costs were reclassified from Other non-current assets to Long-term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Debt issuance costs associated with our committed corporate credit facility continue to be recorded 50Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)within Other non-current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we had total unamortized debt issuance costs of $15.0 and $16.6, respectively.Our debt securities include covenants that, among other things, limit our liens and the liens of certain of our consolidated subsidiaries, but do not require us to maintain any financial ratios or specified levels of net worth or liquidity.Debt Transactions6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2014In May 2014, we redeemed all $350.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2014 (the "6.25% Notes"). Total cash paid to redeem the 6.25% Notes was $371.2, which included accrued and unpaid interest of $10.3. In connection with the redemption of the 6.25% Notes, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $10.4, primarily due to a redemption premium. The loss on early extinguishment of debt was recorded in Other expense, net within our Consolidated Statement of Operations.4.20% Senior Notes due 2024In April 2014, we issued $500.0 in aggregate principal amount of the 4.20% Senior Notes due 2024 (the "4.20% Notes") at a discount to par. As a result, the 4.20% Notes were reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $499.1 at issuance. The discount of $0.9 and capitalized direct fees, including commissions and offering expenses of $4.4, will be amortized in interest expense through the maturity date of April 15, 2024, using the effective interest method. The net proceeds were $494.7 after deducting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15th and October 15th of each year, commencing on October 15, 2014. Consistent with our other debt securities, the 4.20% Notes include covenants that, among other things, limit our liens and the liens of certain of our consolidated subsidiaries but do not require us to maintain any financial ratios or specified levels of net worth or liquidity.We used the majority of the net proceeds of the 4.20% Notes toward the redemption of our 6.25% Notes as described above.At any time prior to April 15, 2024, at our option, we may redeem all or some of the 4.20% Notes at the greater of 100% of the principal amount or a "make-whole" amount, plus, in either instance, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. If we experience a change of control event, combined with a specified downgrade in the credit rating, we must offer to repurchase the 4.20% Notes in cash at a price equal to not less than 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the 4.20% Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase.Credit AgreementsWe maintain a committed corporate credit facility and uncommitted credit facilities with various banks that permit borrowings at variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, there were no borrowings under our committed corporate credit facility. However, there were borrowings under some of the uncommitted facilities to manage working capital needs. We have guaranteed the repayment of some of these borrowings made by certain subsidiaries. If we lose access to these credit lines, we would have to provide funding directly to some of our international operations. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding balances under the uncommitted credit facilities as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 3% and 5%, respectively.A summary of our credit facilities is presented below.On October 20, 2015, we amended and restated our credit agreement, originally dated as of July 18, 2008 (as amended and restated, the "Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement is a revolving facility, with a maturity date of October 20, 2020, under which amounts borrowed by us or any of our subsidiaries designated under the Credit Agreement may be repaid and reborrowed, subject to an aggregate lending limit of $1,000.0, or the equivalent in other currencies. The Company has the ability to increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement from time to time by an additional amount of up to $250.0, provided the Company receives commitments for such increases and satisfies certain other conditions. The aggregate available amount of letters of credit outstanding may decrease or increase, subject to a sublimit on letters of credit of $200.0 or the equivalent in other currencies. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured.Under the Credit Agreement, we can elect to receive advances bearing interest based on either the base rate or the Eurocurrency rate (each as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin that is determined based on our credit ratings. As of 51Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)December 31, 2015, the applicable margin was 0.30% for base rate advances and 1.30% for Eurocurrency rate advances. Letter of credit fees accrue on the average daily aggregate amount of letters of credit outstanding, at a rate equal to the applicable margin for Eurocurrency rate advances, and fronting fees accrue on the aggregate amount of letters of credit outstanding at an annual rate of 0.25%. We also pay a facility fee at an annual rate that is determined based on our credit ratings, which as of December 31, 2015, was 0.20% on the aggregate lending commitment under the Credit Agreement.In addition to other and customary covenants, the Credit Agreement requires that we maintain the financial covenants listed below as of the end of each fiscal quarter for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended.Interest coverage ratio (not less than): 1 5.00xLeverage ratio (not greater than): 2 3.50x 1The interest coverage ratio is defined as EBITDA, as defined in the Credit Agreement, to net interest expense.2The leverage ratio is defined as debt as of the last day of such fiscal quarter to EBITDA, as defined in the Credit Agreement, for the four quarters then ended. The leverage ratio may be changed to not more than 4.00 to 1 at our election for four consecutive fiscal quarters, beginning with the fiscal quarter in which there is an occurrence of one or more acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of at least $200.0.We were in compliance with all of our covenants in the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2015.Cash Pooling We aggregate our domestic cash position on a daily basis. Outside the United States, we use cash pooling arrangements with banks to help manage our liquidity requirements. In these pooling arrangements, several IPG agencies agree with a single bank that the cash balances of any of the agencies with the bank will be subject to a full right of set-off against amounts other agencies owe the bank, and the bank provides for overdrafts as long as the net balance for all agencies does not exceed an agreed-upon level. Typically, each agency pays interest on outstanding overdrafts and receives interest on cash balances. Our Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect cash, net of bank overdrafts, under all of our pooling arrangements, and as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 the amounts netted were $1,608.3 and $1,590.7, respectively.Note 3:  Earnings Per ShareThe following sets forth basic and diluted earnings per common share available to IPG common stockholders. Years ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013Net income available to IPG common stockholders - basic$454.6 $477.1 $259.2Adjustments: Effect of dilutive securities          Interest on 4.75% Notes 10.0 0.0 0.8Net income available to IPG common stockholders - diluted$454.6 $477.1 $260.0            Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding - basic408.1 419.2 421.1Add: Effect of dilutive securities          Restricted stock, stock options and other equity awards7.6 6.2 5.2     4.75% Notes 10.0 0.0 3.3      Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding - diluted415.7 425.4 429.6            Earnings per share available to IPG common stockholders - basic$1.11 $1.14 $0.62Earnings per share available to IPG common stockholders - diluted$1.09 $1.12 $0.61 1We retired all of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the "4.75% Notes") in March 2013. For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share for 2013, the potentially dilutive shares are pro-rated based on the period in which they were outstanding.52Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The following table presents the potential shares excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because the effect of including these potential shares would be antidilutive. Years ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013Preferred Stock Outstanding 10.0 0.0 13.7Securities excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation    because the exercise price was greater than the average market price:      Stock options 20.0 0.0 0.1 1We converted all of our 5 1/4% Series B Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into common stock in October 2013. For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share for 2013, the potentially dilutive shares would have been pro-rated based on the period they were outstanding but were antidilutive.2These options were outstanding at the end of the respective periods. In any period in which the exercise price is less than the average market price, these options have the potential to be dilutive, and application of the treasury stock method would reduce this amount.Note 4:  AcquisitionsWe continue to evaluate strategic opportunities to expand our industry expertise, strengthen our position in high-growth and key strategic geographical markets and industry sectors, advance technological capabilities and improve operational efficiency through both acquisitions and increased ownership interests in current investments. Our acquisitions typically provide for an initial payment at the time of closing and additional contingent purchase price payments based on the future performance of the acquired entity. We have entered into agreements that may require us to purchase additional equity interests in certain consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries. The amounts at which we record these transactions in our financial statements are based on estimates of the future financial performance of the acquired entity, the timing of the exercise of these rights, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors.For companies acquired, we estimate the fair values of the assets and liabilities based on 100% of the business for consolidation. The purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of the tangible net assets acquired is allocated to identifiable intangible assets and then to goodwill. Due to the characteristics of advertising, specialized marketing and communication services companies, our acquisitions typically do not have significant amounts of tangible assets since the principal assets we acquire are client relationships and talent. As a result, a substantial portion of the purchase price is primarily allocated to customer lists, trade names and goodwill.For acquisitions we record deferred payment and redeemable noncontrolling interest amounts on our Consolidated Balance Sheets based on their acquisition-date fair value. Deferred payments are recorded on a discounted basis and adjusted quarterly, if necessary, through operating income or net interest expense, depending on the nature of the arrangement, for both changes in estimate and accretion between the acquisition date and the final payment date. See Note 14 for further information on contingent acquisition obligations. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are adjusted quarterly to their estimated redemption value, but not less than their initial fair value. Any adjustments to the redemption value impacts retained earnings, except for foreign currency translation adjustments. The following table presents changes in our redeemable noncontrolling interests.For all acquisitions, if a portion of the deferred payments and purchases of additional interests after the effective date of purchase are contingent upon employment terms, then that amount is accounted separately from the business combination and recognized as compensation expense over the required earn-out period. Payments deemed as compensation are excluded from the fair value purchase price allocation to tangible net assets and intangible assets acquired.During 2015, we completed five acquisitions, four of which were included in the Integrated Agency Networks ("IAN") operating segment and one of which was included in the Constituency Management Group ("CMG") operating segment. All 53Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or existing agencies. The most significant acquisitions include a  full-service digital agency in the U.K., a group of creative marketing agencies based in Russia, and a media planning and buying agency with significant digital capabilities in Canada. During 2015, we recorded approximately $61.0 of goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions.During 2014, we completed eight acquisitions, six of which were included in the IAN operating segment and two of which were included in the CMG operating segment. All acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or existing agencies. The most significant acquisitions included a global full-service digital agency, a digital agency in the United States and a search marketing agency in the Netherlands. During 2014, we recorded approximately $185.0 of goodwill and intangible assets related to these acquisitions.During 2013, we completed eleven acquisitions, nine of which were included in the IAN operating segment and two of which were included in the CMG operating segment. All acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or existing agencies. The most significant acquisitions included a full-service digital agency in India, a full-service agency in the U.K. and a public relations consultancy in India. During 2013, we recorded approximately $97.0 of goodwill and intangible assets related to these acquisitions.The results of operations of our acquired companies were included in our consolidated results from the closing date of each acquisition. We did not make any payments in stock related to our acquisitions in 2015, 2014 or 2013.Details of cash paid for current and prior years' acquisitions are listed below. 1Represents cash payments made that were either in excess of the initial value of contingent payments or contingent upon the future employment of the former owners of the acquired companies and are recorded in the operating section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.2Of the total cash paid for acquisitions, $53.1, $13.6 and $27.6 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are classified under the financing section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as acquisition-related payments. These amounts relate to deferred payments and increases in our ownership interest for prior acquisitions. $28.6, $67.8 and $61.5 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are classified under the investing section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as acquisitions, net of cash acquired. These amounts relate to initial payments for new transactions.Note 5:  Supplementary DataValuation and Qualifying Accounts   Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable 1Amounts primarily represent miscellaneous reclassifications and allowances of acquired companies.54Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Property and EquipmentThe total depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $130.9, $133.7 and $133.2, respectively.Accrued LiabilitiesThe following table presents the components of accrued liabilities.Other Expense, net Results of operations include certain items that are not directly associated with our revenue-producing operations.(Losses) Gains on Sales of Businesses and Investments, net   During 2015, we recognized losses on the sales of businesses on completed dispositions within both our IAN and CMG segments and the classification of certain assets as held for sale within our IAN segment. During 2014, we recognized gains from the sale of a business located in Continental Europe within our IAN segment and the sale of investments in our Rabbi Trusts, which were partially offset by a loss from the sale of a business in the domestic market within our IAN segment. During 2013, we recognized gains from the sale of marketable securities in the Asia Pacific region within our IAN segment and the sale of investments in our Rabbi Trusts, which were partially offset by a loss from the sale of a business in the United Kingdom within our IAN segment.Assets held for sale of $12.1 and liabilities held for sale of $11.9 are included in Other current assets and Accrued liabilities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015. These assets and liabilities held for sale, which primarily consist of accounts receivable and accounts payable, respectively, are related to sales of businesses expected to be completed within the next twelve months.Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt   During 2014, we recorded a charge of $10.4 related to the redemption of our 6.25% Notes. During 2013, we recorded a charge of $45.2 related to the redemption of our 10.00% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017. Notes. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.55Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Vendor Discounts and Credit Adjustments   In connection with the liabilities related to vendor discounts and credits established as part of the restatement we presented in our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, these adjustments reflect the reversal of certain of these liabilities primarily where the statute of limitations has lapsed, or as a result of differences resulting from settlements with clients or vendors.Other Income (Expense), net   During 2015, we recorded a gain related to foreign currency forward exchange contracts within our Corporate and other segment. During 2014, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate in the Asia Pacific region within our IAN segment. During 2013, other income (expense), net primarily included a non-cash gain on re-measurement to fair value of an equity interest in an affiliate, located in the Asia Pacific region within our CMG segment, upon acquiring a controlling interest.Share Repurchase Program In February 2013, our Board of Directors (the "Board") authorized a new share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0, excluding fees, of our common stock (the "2013 Share Repurchase Program"). In March 2013, the Board authorized an increase in the amount available under our 2013 Share Repurchase Program up to $500.0, excluding fees, of our common stock to be used towards the repurchase of shares resulting from the conversion to common stock of the 4.75% Notes. In February 2014, the Board authorized a new share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0, excluding fees, of our common stock (the "2014 Share Repurchase Program"). In February 2015, the Board authorized a new share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0, excluding fees, of our common stock (the "2015 Share Repurchase Program").We may effect such repurchases through open market purchases, trading plans established in accordance with SEC rules, derivative transactions or other means. We expect to continue to repurchase our common stock in future periods, although the timing and amount of the repurchases will depend on market conditions and other funding requirements.The following table presents our share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs.We fully utilized the 2013 Share Repurchase Program in the third quarter of 2014 and the 2014 Share Repurchase Program in the third quarter of 2015. As of December 31, 2015, $158.6 remained available for repurchase under the 2015 Share Repurchase Program. The 2015 Share Repurchase Program has no expiration date.Supplemental Cash Flow Information 56Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Note 6:  Intangible AssetsGoodwillGoodwill is the excess purchase price remaining from an acquisition after an allocation of purchase price has been made to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values. The changes in the carrying value of goodwill for our segments, IAN and CMG, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 are listed below. 1For all periods presented, we have not recorded a goodwill impairment charge.See Note 1 for information regarding our annual impairment methodology.Other Intangible AssetsOther intangible assets are comprised of both assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization and assets with definite lives subject to amortization. Other intangible assets primarily consist of customer lists and trade names, which have definitive lives and are subject to amortization on a straight-line basis with estimated useful lives generally between 7 and 15 years. Amortization expense for other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $26.1, $29.4 and $26.8, respectively. There were no material impairment charges on other intangibles for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. During 2015 and 2014, we recorded approximately $9.6 and $48.6 of intangible assets related to our acquisitions in the respective year.The following table provides a summary of other intangible assets, which are included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.The estimated annual amortization expense for other intangible assets for the next five years as of December 31, 2015 is listed below.Note 7:  Income TaxesThe components of income before income taxes are listed below.57Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)The provision for income taxes is listed below.A reconciliation of the effective income tax rate as reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations to the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate is listed below. 1Reflects changes in valuation allowance that impacted the effective income tax rate for each year presented.In 2015, our effective income tax rate of 37.1% was negatively impacted primarily by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances and from the losses on sales of businesses for which we did not receive a full tax benefit. The negative impacts to our tax rates were partially offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits as a result of the reversal of valuation allowances in Continental Europe and the settlement of the 2010 U.S. federal income tax audit.In 2014, our effective income tax rate of 30.0% was positively impacted from changes to our valuation allowances of $66.0. The primary drivers of the net change were associated with a valuation allowance reversal of $124.8 in one jurisdiction partially offset by the establishment of a valuation allowance of $57.2 in another jurisdiction, both in Continental Europe. In addition, our effective income tax rate was negatively impacted by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances.In 2013, our effective income tax rate of 38.7% was positively impacted by the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits as a result of the recognition of losses attributable to worthless securities in a consolidated subsidiary and the settlement of the 2002-2006 New York State audit cycle. Our effective income tax rate was negatively impacted primarily by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances.58Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are listed below.In November 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance which requires all deferred income tax assets and liabilities to be presented as noncurrent on the balance sheet. This amended guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2017, and may be applied retrospectively or prospectively, with early adoption permitted. We have early adopted this amended guidance and applied the presentation prospectively as of December 31, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2014, there were $107.1 of current deferred tax assets included within Other current assets and $5.4 of current deferred tax liabilities included within Accrued liabilities, which would be classified as noncurrent under the amended guidance.We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. The realization of our deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future earnings. The amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable could be reduced or increased in the near future if estimates of future taxable income are lower or greater than anticipated. A valuation allowance is established when it is  more likely than not  that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. In circumstances where there is negative evidence, establishment of a valuation allowance is considered. The factors used in assessing valuation allowances include all available evidence, such as past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. We believe that cumulative losses in the most recent three-year period represent significant negative evidence, and as a result, we determined that certain of our deferred tax assets required the establishment of a valuation allowance. The deferred tax assets for which an allowance was recognized relate primarily to state and foreign tax loss carryforwards.The change in the valuation allowance is listed below.In 2015, amounts reversed to costs and expenses primarily related to the decrease in valuation allowances in Continental Europe for existing deferred tax assets. The amounts reversed to gross tax assets and other accounts relate primarily to the effect of foreign currency translation.In 2014, the net decrease was primarily related to a reversal of a valuation allowance for a deferred tax asset of $124.8, where we believe it is now "more likely than not" that the corresponding tax losses will be utilized over an extended period of time, based on implementing an internal financing tax action plan. This was partially offset by the establishment of a valuation allowance of $57.2, where we believe it is no longer "more likely than not" that the corresponding tax losses will be utilized, based on forecasted income not exceeding historical cumulative losses. The amounts charged to gross tax assets and other accounts relate primarily 59Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)to the effect of foreign currency translation and a reduction to the valuation allowance related to the write-down of a corresponding deferred tax asset.In 2013, amounts charged to costs and expenses primarily related to the increase in valuation allowances in the U.S. and Continental Europe regions for existing and additional deferred tax assets. The amounts charged to gross tax assets and other accounts related primarily to the effect of foreign currency translation.As of December 31, 2015, there were $1,127.7 of loss carryforwards. These loss carryforwards were all non-U.S. tax loss carryforwards, of which $984.2 have unlimited carryforward periods and $143.5 have expiration periods from 2016 to 2035. As of December 31, 2015, the Company also had $56.7 in deferred tax assets for state net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards, which will expire between 2016 and 2035.As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we had $2,592.4 and $2,214.2, respectively, of undistributed earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries. It is our intention to permanently reinvest undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. We have not provided deferred U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on temporary differences resulting from earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the U.S. It is not practicable to determine the deferred income tax liability on these undistributed earnings because such liability, if any, is dependent on circumstances that exist if and when a remittance occurs, including the source location and amount of the distribution, the underlying tax rate already paid on the earnings, foreign withholding taxes and the opportunity to use foreign tax credits.The table below summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits.Included in the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $226.9 as of December 31, 2015, is $206.5 of tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective income tax rate. The total amount of accrued interest and penalties as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 is $20.1 and $15.3, respectively, of which a detriment of $4.8 and $5.4 is included in our 2015 and 2014 Consolidated Statements of Operations, respectively. In accordance with our accounting policy, interest and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income taxes in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.We have various tax years under examination by tax authorities in the U.S., in various countries, and in various states, such as New York, in which we have significant business operations. It is not yet known whether these examinations will, in the aggregate, result in our paying additional taxes. We believe our tax reserves are adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments in each of the jurisdictions in which we are subject to taxation. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional tax assessments in those jurisdictions and, if necessary, adjust our reserves as additional information or events require.With respect to all tax years open to examination by U.S. federal, various state and local, and non-U.S. tax authorities, we currently anticipate that total unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by an amount between $25.0 and $35.0 in the next twelve months, a portion of which will affect our effective income tax rate, primarily as a result of the settlement of tax examinations and the lapsing of statutes of limitations. This net decrease is related to various items of income and expense, primarily transfer pricing adjustments.We are effectively settled with respect to U.S. income tax audits for 2010 and years prior to 2009. With limited exceptions, we are no longer subject to state and local income tax audits for years prior to 2004, or non-U.S. income tax audits for years prior to 2006.60Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Note 8:  Restructuring and Other Reorganization-Related (Reversals) Charges, netThe components of restructuring and other reorganization-related (reversals) charges, net for all of our restructuring plans are listed below.2013 Restructuring PlanIn the fourth quarter of 2013, we implemented a cost savings initiative (the "2013 Plan") to better align our cost structure with our revenue, primarily in Continental Europe. In connection with this initiative, we identified and initiated restructuring actions resulting in pre-tax charges in 2013 of $61.2 related to the 2013 Plan, comprised of severance and termination costs of $55.9, lease termination costs of $4.8 and other exit costs of $0.5. In 2015, we recorded an additional $0.1 of net restructuring reversals related to the 2013 Plan at IAN. All restructuring actions were substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2014, with remaining payments expected to be made through 2021.A summary of the 2013 Plan restructuring liability activity is listed below.Note 9:  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Net of TaxThe following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax by component.61Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are as follows:  Years ended December 31, Affected Line Item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations  2015 2014 2013 Foreign currency translation adjustments $23.3 $(0.9) $0.0 Other (expense) income, netGains on available-for-sale securities 0.0 0.0 (1.4) Other (expense) income, netLosses on derivative instruments 2.0 1.9 1.7 Interest expenseAmortization of defined benefit pension and postretirement plans items 1 10.4 10.5 10.8  Tax effect (7.1) 9.6 (2.4) Provision for income taxesTotal amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax $28.6 $21.1 $8.7   1These accumulated other comprehensive loss components are included in the computation of net periodic cost. See Note 12 for further information.Note 10:  Incentive Compensation Plans2014 Performance Incentive PlanWe issue stock-based compensation and cash awards to our employees under a plan established by the Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Compensation Committee ) and approved by our shareholders. In May 2014, our shareholders approved the 2014 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2014 PIP ), replacing the 2009 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2009 PIP ) and previous incentive plans. The number of shares of common stock initially available for grants of all equity awards under the 2014 PIP is 28.8. Pursuant to the terms of the 2014 PIP, the number of shares that may be awarded to any one participant for each type of award is limited to 2.0. The vesting period of awards granted is generally commensurate with the requisite service period. We generally issue new shares to satisfy the exercise of stock options or the distribution of other stock-based awards.Additionally, under the 2014 PIP, we have the ability to issue performance cash awards. Performance cash awards are granted to certain employees who otherwise would have been eligible to receive performance-based stock awards. These awards have a service period vesting condition and a performance vesting condition. The amount of the performance cash award received by an employee with a performance vesting condition can range from 0% to 300% of the target amount of the original grant value. Performance cash awards generally vest in three years. The Compensation Committee may grant performance cash awards to any eligible employee; however, no employee can receive more than $10.0 during a performance period.The amounts of stock-based compensation expense as reflected in salaries and related expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the related tax benefit, are listed below. 1Represents charges recorded for severance expense related to stock-based compensation awards.Stock OptionsStock options are granted with the exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. They are generally first exercisable between two and four years from the grant date and expire ten years from the grant date (or earlier in the case of certain terminations of employment).62Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)The following tables are a summary of stock option activity during 2015.  Options Weighted-AverageExercise Price(per option) Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Term(in years) AggregateIntrinsicValueStock options outstanding as of January 1, 2015 7.4 $9.70    Exercised (1.4) 9.99    Stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2015 6.0 $9.63 3.5 $82.4Stock options vested and expected to vest as of December 31, 2015 6.0 $9.63 3.5 $82.4Stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2015 5.8 $9.51 3.4 $80.1           Options Weighted-Average GrantDate Fair Value(per option) Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Term(in years) AggregateIntrinsicValueNon-vested as of January 1, 2015 0.6 $4.16    Vested (0.4) 4.18    Non-vested as of December 31, 2015 0.2 $4.14 7.2 $2.4There were 1.4, 1.7 and 5.2 stock options exercised in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $16.1, $10.7 and $26.2, respectively. The cash received from the stock options exercised in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $20.4, $25.2 and $59.5, respectively.We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of options granted, which requires the input of subjective assumptions including the option s expected term and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value, and our results of operations could be materially impacted. There were no stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. The weighted-average grant-date fair value per option during the year ended December 31, 2013 was $4.14.The fair value of each option grant has been estimated with the following weighted-average assumptions.  Year ended December 31, 2013Expected volatility 1 40.2%Expected term (years) 2 6.9Risk-free interest rate 3 1.3%Expected dividend yield 4 2.4% 1The expected volatility used to estimate the fair value of stock options awarded is based on a blend of:  (i) historical volatility of our common stock for periods equal to the expected term of our stock options and (ii) implied volatility of tradable forward put and call options to purchase and sell shares of our common stock.2The estimate of our expected term is based on the average of:  (i) an assumption that all outstanding options are exercised upon achieving their full vesting date and (ii) an assumption that all outstanding options will be exercised at the midpoint between the current date (i.e., the date awards have ratably vested through) and their full contractual term. In determining the estimate, we considered several factors, including the historical option exercise behavior of our employees and the terms and vesting periods of the options.3The risk-free interest rate is determined using the implied yield currently available for zero-coupon U.S. government issuers with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the options.4The expected dividend yield was calculated based on an annualized dividend of $0.30 per share in 2013.Stock-Based CompensationWe grant other stock-based compensation awards such as stock-settled awards, cash-settled awards and performance-based awards (settled in cash or shares) to certain key employees. The number of shares or units received by an employee for performance-based awards depends on Company performance against specific performance targets and could range from 0% to 300% of the target amount of shares originally granted. Incentive awards are subject to certain restrictions and vesting requirements as determined by the Compensation Committee. The fair value of the shares on the grant date is amortized over the vesting period, which is generally three years. Upon completion of the vesting period for cash-settled awards, the grantee is entitled to receive a payment in cash based on the fair market value of the corresponding number of shares of common stock. No monetary consideration is paid by a recipient for any incentive award. The fair value of cash-settled awards is adjusted each quarter based on our share 63Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)price. The holders of stock-settled awards have absolute ownership interest in the underlying shares of common stock prior to vesting, which includes the right to vote and receive dividends. Dividends declared on common stock are accrued during the vesting period and paid when the award vests. The holders of cash-settled and performance-based awards have no ownership interest in the underlying shares of common stock until the awards vest and the shares of common stock are issued.Stock-based compensation awards expected to be settled in cash have been classified as liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.In conjunction with common stock dividends declared in 2015 and 2014, we accrued dividends of $0.9 and $0.8, respectively, on non-vested stock-settled awards and paid dividends of $0.6 and $0.5 for stock-settled awards that vested during 2015 and 2014, respectively.A summary of the activity of our non-vested stock-settled awards, cash-settled awards and performance-based awards during 2015 is presented below (performance-based awards are shown at 100% of the shares originally granted).During 2015, 2014 and 2013, additional performance cash awards with a total target value of $1.2, $2.9 and $35.6, respectively, were awarded under the 2014 PIP and 2009 PIP and will be settled in shares upon vesting, which is three years from the grant date. The total fair value of the vested awards distributed during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $16.6 and $19.8, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, there was $1.6 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to these awards, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted-average period of 0.2 years.In conjunction with our annual grant of long-term incentive compensation awards, we reviewed our estimates and assumptions in 2015, which resulted in a forfeiture rate consistent with prior years.64Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)2009 Restricted Cash PlanIn March 2009, the Compensation Committee approved the Interpublic Restricted Cash Plan (the  Cash Plan ). Under the Cash Plan, the Board, the Compensation Committee or the Plan Administrator may grant cash awards to certain employees eligible to receive stock-settled and cash-settled awards. Cash awards, when granted, have a service period vesting condition and generally vest in three years.Cash AwardsDuring the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Compensation Committee granted cash awards under the Cash Plan with a total target value of $1.3, $5.8 and $4.6, respectively, and we recognized $3.0, $3.1 and $4.0, respectively, in salaries and related expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Compensation Committee granted performance awards to be settled in cash under the 2014 PIP and 2009 PIP with a total target value of $31.8, $33.0, and $47.4, respectively, and we recognized $35.8, $27.3 and $18.3, respectively, in salaries and related expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.We amortize the present value of the amount expected to vest for cash awards and performance cash awards over the vesting period using the straight-line method, less an assumed forfeiture rate. Cash awards do not fall within the scope of the authoritative guidance for stock compensation as they are not paid in equity and the value of the award is not correlated with our stock price. Due to the cash nature of the payouts and the vesting period, we account for these awards in accordance with authoritative guidance for deferred compensation arrangements.Employee Stock Purchase PlansIn December 2015, the Board approved The Interpublic Group of Companies Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2016) (the  New ESPP ), replacing the prior employee stock purchase plan under which,  prior to its expiration on December 31, 2015, 3.0 shares were issued. The issuance of shares under the New ESPP is subject to shareholder approval of the plan at the Company s 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Subject to receiving shareholder approval, under the New ESPP eligible employees may purchase our common stock through payroll deductions not exceeding 10% of their eligible compensation or 900 (actual number) shares each offering period, consistent with the prior employee stock purchase plan. The price an employee pays for a share of common stock under the New ESPP continues to be 90% of the lesser of the average market price of a share on the first business day of the offering period or the average market price of a share on the last business day of the offering period of three months. An aggregate of 10.0 shares are reserved for issuance under the New ESPP.Note 11:  Fair Value MeasurementsAuthoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:Level 1  Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. An active market for the asset or liability is a market in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.  Level 2  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.  Level 3  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.Financial Instruments that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisWe primarily apply the market approach to determine the fair value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. There were no changes to our valuation techniques used to determine the fair value of financial instruments during 2015 as compared to the prior year.65Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)The following tables present information about our financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value. December 31, 2015 Balance Sheet Classification Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets         Cash equivalents$875.7 $0.0 $0.0 $875.7 Cash and cash equivalentsShort-term marketable securities6.8 0.0 0.0 6.8 Marketable securitiesLong-term investments0.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 Other assetsTotal$882.9 $0.0 $0.0 $882.9            As a percentage of total assets7.0% 0.0% 0.0% 7.0%            Liabilities         Mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests 1$0.0 $0.0 $45.0 $45.0             December 31, 2014 Balance Sheet Classification Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets         Cash equivalents$901.4 $0.0 $0.0 $901.4 Cash and cash equivalentsShort-term marketable securities6.6 0.0 0.0 6.6 Marketable securitiesLong-term investments0.5 0.0 0.0 0.5 Other assetsTotal$908.5 $0.0 $0.0 $908.5            As a percentage of total assets7.1% 0.0% 0.0% 7.1%            Liabilities         Mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests 1$0.0 $0.0 $32.8 $32.8   1Relates to unconditional obligations to purchase additional noncontrolling equity shares of consolidated subsidiaries. Fair value measurement of the obligation was based upon the amount payable as if the forward contracts were settled. The amount redeemable within the next twelve months is classified in accrued liabilities; any interests redeemable thereafter are classified in other non-current liabilities.The following table presents additional information about financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis and for which we utilize Level 3 inputs to determine fair value.  Years ended December 31,Liabilities 2015 2014Mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests -     Balance at beginning of period $32.8 $27.0Level 3 additions 23.7 5.6Level 3 reductions (17.2) (0.8)Realized losses included in net income 5.3 1.0Foreign currency translation 0.4 0.0Mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests -     Balance at end of period $45.0 $32.8Level 3 reductions primarily consist of cash payments made related to unconditional obligations to purchase additional equity interests in previous acquisitions, which are classified within the financing section of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Level 3 additions relate to new unconditional obligations to purchase additional equity interests in previous acquisitions for cash in future periods. Realized losses included in net income for mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests are reported as a component of interest expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.66Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Gross unrealized and realized gains and losses for our long-term investments and short-term marketable securities were not material for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.Financial Instruments that are not Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisThe following table presents information about our financial instruments that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2015, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value.Our long-term debt is comprised of senior notes and other notes payable. The fair value of our senior notes traded over-the-counter is based on quoted prices for such securities, but for which fair value can also be derived from inputs that are readily observable. Therefore, these senior notes are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Our other notes payable are not actively traded, and their fair value is not solely derived from readily observable inputs. The fair value of our other notes payable is determined based on a discounted cash flow model and other proprietary valuation methods, and therefore is classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. See Note 2 for further information on our long-term debt.Non-financial Instruments that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisCertain non-financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, primarily accrued restructuring charges. Accrued restructuring charges were $3.9 and $8.1 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These charges were valued using our internal estimates based upon a discounted cash flow model and are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.Non-financial Instruments that are Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring BasisCertain non-financial instruments are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, primarily goodwill, intangible assets, and property and equipment. Accordingly, these assets are not measured and adjusted to fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to periodic evaluations for potential impairment.Note 12:  Employee BenefitsPension and Postretirement Benefit PlansWe have a defined benefit pension plan covering certain U.S. employees (the  Domestic Pension Plan ) that consists of approximately 3,700 participants and is closed to new participants. We also have numerous funded and unfunded plans outside the U.S. The Interpublic Limited Pension Plan in the U.K. is a defined benefit plan and is our most material foreign pension plan in terms of the benefit obligation and plan assets. Some of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries provide postretirement health benefits and life insurance to eligible employees and, in certain cases, their dependents. The domestic postretirement benefit plan is our most material postretirement benefit plan in terms of the benefit obligation. This plan consists of approximately 1,900 participants, is closed to new participants and is unfunded.Differences between the aggregate income statement and balance sheet amounts listed in the tables below and the totals reported in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets relate to non-material foreign pension and postretirement benefit plans.67Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Pension and Postretirement Benefit ObligationThe change in the benefit obligation, the change in plan assets, the funded status and amounts recognized for the Domestic Pension Plan, the significant foreign pension plans and the domestic postretirement benefit plan are listed below.In 2016, we estimate that we will recognize $7.5 and $3.7 of net actuarial losses from accumulated other comprehensive loss, net into net periodic cost related to our domestic pension plan and significant foreign pension plans, respectively.68Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Net Periodic CostThe components of net periodic benefit cost and key assumptions are listed below. AssumptionsDiscount Rates   At December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we determined our discount rates for our Domestic Pension Plan, foreign pension plans and domestic postretirement benefit plan based on either a bond selection/settlement approach or bond yield curve approach. Using the bond selection/settlement approach, we determine the discount rate by selecting a portfolio of corporate bonds appropriate to provide for the projected benefit payments. Using the bond yield curve approach, we determine the discount rate by matching the plans' cash flows to spot rates developed from a yield curve. Both approaches utilize high-quality AA-rated corporate bonds and the plans' projected cash flows to develop a discounted value of the benefit payments, which is then used to develop a single discount rate. In countries where markets for high-quality long-term AA corporate bonds are not well developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a basis to develop hypothetical corporate bond yields, which serve as a basis to derive the discount rate.69Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Expected Return on Assets   Our expected rate of return is determined at the beginning of each year and considers asset class index returns over various market and economic conditions, current and expected market conditions, risk premiums associated with asset classes and long-term inflation rates. We determine both a short-term and long-term view and then select a long-term rate of return assumption that matches the duration of our liabilities.Fair Value of Pension Plan AssetsThe following table presents the fair value of our domestic and foreign pension plan assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value. See Note 11 for a description of the fair value hierarchy.Investment funds include mutual funds, common/collective trusts, hedge funds and other commingled assets that are invested primarily in equity and fixed income securities. Mutual funds, which are publicly traded, are primarily valued using recently reported sales prices. All other investment funds, which are not publicly traded, are valued based on the net asset value of shares held by the plan at year end, which reflects the fair value of the underlying investments. Limited partnerships are invested primarily in equity and fixed income securities. Fixed  income securities include government and investment-grade corporate bonds. Insurance contracts are valued based on the cash surrender value of the contract. Other investments primarily include cash and cash equivalents, equity securities and derivatives.The following table presents additional information about our domestic and foreign pension plan assets for which we utilize Level 3 inputs to determine fair value.70Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Asset AllocationThe primary investment goal for our plans  assets is to maximize total asset returns while ensuring the plans  assets are available to fund the plans  liabilities as they become due. The plans  assets in aggregate and at the individual portfolio level are invested so that total portfolio risk exposure and risk-adjusted returns best achieve this objective. The aggregate amount of our own stock held as investment for our domestic and foreign pension funds is considered negligible relative to the total fund assets. As of December 31, 2015, the weighted-average target and actual asset allocations relating to our domestic and foreign pension plans' assets are listed below.Cash FlowsDuring 2015, we contributed $3.2 and $21.6 of cash to our domestic and foreign pension plans, respectively. For 2016, we expect to contribute approximately $21.0 of cash to our foreign pension plans. We expect to make no contributions to our Domestic Pension Plan in 2016.The following estimated future benefit payments, which reflect future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid in the years indicated below.The estimated future payments for our domestic postretirement benefit plan are before any estimated federal subsidies expected to be received under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.The following federal subsidies are expected to be received in the years indicated below.Savings PlansWe sponsor defined contribution plans (the  Savings Plans ) that cover substantially all domestic employees. The Savings Plans permit participants to make contributions on a pre-tax and/or after-tax basis and allow participants to choose among various investment alternatives. We match a portion of participant contributions based upon their years of service. Amounts expensed for the Savings Plans for 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $44.5, $43.0 and $37.7, respectively. Expenses include a discretionary Company contribution of $5.8, $5.2 and $4.9 offset by participant forfeitures of $3.8, $3.6 and $3.3 in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 71Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)In addition, we maintain defined contribution plans in various foreign countries and contributed $43.9, $42.4 and $36.9 to these plans in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.Deferred Compensation and Benefit ArrangementsWe have deferred compensation arrangements which (i) permit certain of our key officers and employees to defer a portion of their salary or incentive compensation or (ii) require us to contribute an amount to the participant s account. The arrangements typically provide that the participant will receive the amounts deferred plus interest upon attaining certain conditions, such as completing a certain number of years of service or upon retirement or termination. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the deferred compensation liability balance was $95.7 and $97.7, respectively. Amounts expensed for deferred compensation arrangements in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $6.3, $9.8 and $13.4, respectively.We have deferred benefit arrangements with certain key officers and employees that provide participants with an annual payment, payable when the participant attains a certain age and after the participant s employment has terminated. The deferred benefit liability was $141.5 and $153.2 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Amounts expensed for deferred benefit arrangements in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $9.7, $10.8 and $14.0, respectively.We have purchased life insurance policies on participants  lives to assist in the funding of the related deferred compensation and deferred benefit liabilities. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the cash surrender value of these policies was $167.0 and $165.6, respectively. In addition to the life insurance policies, certain investments are held for the purpose of paying the deferred compensation and deferred benefit liabilities. These investments, along with the life insurance policies, are held in a separate revocable trust for the purpose of paying the deferred compensation and the deferred benefit arrangement liabilities. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the value of such investments in the trust was $10.7 and $8.5, respectively. The short-term investments are included in cash and cash equivalents, and the long-term investments and cash surrender value of the policies are included in other assets.Long-Term Disability PlanWe have a long-term disability plan which provides income replacement benefits to eligible participants who are unable to perform their job duties or any job related to his or her education, training or experience. As all income replacement benefits are fully insured, no related obligation is required as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. In addition to income replacement benefits, plan participants may remain covered for certain health and life insurance benefits up to normal retirement age, and accordingly, we have recorded an obligation of $8.0 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.Note 13:  Segment InformationAs of December 31, 2015, we have two reportable segments:  IAN and CMG. IAN is comprised of McCann Worldgroup, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB"), MullenLowe Group, IPG Mediabrands, our digital specialist agencies and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the  Corporate and other  group.Within IAN, our agencies provide a comprehensive array of global communications and marketing services, each offering a distinctive range of solutions for our clients. Our digital specialist agencies provide unique digital capabilities and service their own client rosters while also serving as key digital partners. In addition, our domestic integrated agencies, including Hill Holliday, Carmichael Lynch and Tierney, provide a full range of advertising, marketing communications services and/or marketing services and partner with our global operating divisions as needed. IAN s operating divisions share similar economic characteristics and are similar in other areas, specifically related to the nature of their services, the manner in which the services are provided and the similarity of their respective customers.CMG, which includes Weber Shandwick, Cassidy, DeVries, Golin, FutureBrand, Jack Morton and Octagon Worldwide, provides clients with diversified services, including public relations, meeting and event production, sports and entertainment marketing, corporate and brand identity, and strategic marketing consulting. CMG shares some similarities with service lines offered by IAN; however, on an aggregate basis, CMG has a higher proportion of arrangements for which they act as principal, a different distribution model than IAN and different margin structure.The profitability measure employed by our chief operating decision maker for allocating resources to operating divisions and assessing operating division performance is operating income (loss), excluding the impact of restructuring and other reorganization-related (reversals) charges, net. All segments follow the same accounting policies as those described in Note 1.Certain corporate and other charges are reported as separate line items within total segment operating income and include corporate office expenses, as well as shared service center expenses and certain other centrally managed expenses that are not fully allocated to operating divisions. Salaries and related expenses include salaries, long-term incentive awards, annual bonuses and other miscellaneous benefits for corporate office employees. Office and general expenses primarily include professional fees 72Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)related to internal control compliance, financial statement audits and legal, information technology and other consulting services, which are engaged and managed through the corporate office. In addition, office and general expenses includes rental expense and depreciation of leasehold improvements for properties occupied by corporate office employees. A portion of centrally managed expenses are allocated to operating divisions based on a formula that uses the planned revenues of each of the operating units. Amounts allocated also include specific charges for information technology-related projects, which are allocated based on utilization.Summarized financial information concerning our reportable segments is shown in the following table. 73Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Revenue and long-lived assets, excluding intangible assets, are presented by major geographic area in the following table.Revenue is primarily attributed to geographic areas based on where the services are performed. Property and equipment are allocated based upon physical location. Other assets and investments are allocated based on the location of the related operations.Note 14:  Commitments and ContingenciesLeasesWe lease office premises and equipment. Where leases contain escalation clauses or concessions, such as rent holidays and landlord/tenant incentives or allowances, the impact of such adjustments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease period. Certain leases provide for renewal options and require the payment of real estate taxes or other occupancy costs, which are also subject to escalation clauses. Net rent expense is listed in the table below.Cash amounts for future minimum lease commitments for office premises and equipment under non-cancelable leases, along with minimum sublease rental income to be received under non-cancelable subleases, are listed in the table below.GuaranteesWe have guaranteed certain obligations of our subsidiaries relating principally to operating leases and credit facilities of certain subsidiaries. The amount of parent company guarantees on lease obligations was $619.4 and $580.4 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and the amount of parent company guarantees primarily relating to credit facilities was $336.5 and $329.2 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. In the event of non-payment by the applicable subsidiary of the obligations covered by a guarantee, we would be obligated to pay the amounts covered by that guarantee. As of December 31, 2015, there were no material assets pledged as security for such parent company guarantees.74Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Contingent Acquisition ObligationsThe following table details the estimated future contingent acquisition obligations payable in cash as of December 31, 2015.  1We have entered into certain acquisitions that contain both redeemable noncontrolling interests and call options with similar terms and conditions. The estimated amounts listed would be paid in the event of exercise at the earliest exercise date. We have certain redeemable noncontrolling interests that are exercisable at the discretion of the noncontrolling equity owners as of December 31, 2015. These estimated payments of $31.0 are included within the total payments expected to be made in 2016, and will continue to be carried forward into 2017 or beyond until exercised or expired. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are included in the table at current exercise price payable in cash, not at applicable redemption value in accordance with the authoritative guidance for classification and measurement of redeemable securities.The majority of these payments are contingent upon achieving projected operating performance targets and satisfying other conditions specified in the related agreements and are subject to revision in accordance with the terms of the respective agreements. See Note 4 for further information relating to the payment structure of our acquisitions.Legal MattersWe are involved in various legal proceedings, and subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities, arising in the normal course of business. The types of allegations that arise in connection with such legal proceedings vary in nature, but can include claims related to contract, employment, tax and intellectual property matters. We evaluate all cases each reporting period and record liabilities for losses from legal proceedings when we determine that it is probable that the outcome in a legal proceeding will be unfavorable and the amount, or potential range, of loss can be reasonably estimated. In certain cases, we cannot reasonably estimate the potential loss because, for example, the litigation is in its early stages. While any outcome related to litigation or such governmental proceedings in which we are involved cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the outcome of these matters, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.As previously disclosed, on April 10, 2015, a federal judge in Brazil authorized the search of the records of an agency's offices in Sa o Paulo and Brasilia, in connection with an ongoing investigation by Brazilian authorities involving payments potentially connected to local government contracts. The Company had previously investigated the matter and taken a number of remedial and disciplinary actions. The Company is in the process of concluding a settlement related to these matters with government agencies and has provided for such settlement in its Consolidated Financial Statements.Note 15:  Recent Accounting StandardsFair Value MeasurementsIn January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ) issued amended guidance which updates the fair value presentation requirements for certain financial instruments. Equity investments with readily determinable fair values, other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting, must now be measured at fair value with changes recorded through current earnings rather than other comprehensive income. This amended guidance will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2018, at which time a cumulative-effect adjustment may be recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We do not expect the adoption of this amended guidance to have a significant impact on our consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred Income TaxesIn November 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance which requires all deferred income tax assets and liabilities to be presented as noncurrent on the balance sheet. This amended guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2017, and may be applied retrospectively or prospectively, with early adoption permitted. We have early adopted this amended guidance and applied the presentation prospectively as of December 31, 2015. The adoption did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the adoption of this amended guidance.75Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Business CombinationsIn September 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance which requires measurement period adjustments to be recorded in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. Previously, such adjustments were required to be retrospectively recorded in prior period financial information. This amended guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2016, and applied prospectively, with early adoption permitted. We have early adopted this amended guidance as of the quarter ended September 30, 2015, and the adoption did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.Revenue RecognitionIn May 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance on revenue recognition which requires an entity to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard affects the timing of recognizing revenue in connection with variable consideration. In July 2015, the FASB affirmed its proposal to delay the effective date of the new revenue standard by one year to January 1, 2018, with early adoption to be permitted as of the original effective date of January 1, 2017. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of the amended guidance will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.Debt Issuance CostsIn April 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance which requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt liability rather than as separate assets on the balance sheet. The FASB later issued guidance in August 2015 stating that debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit arrangements may be presented as an asset and subsequently amortized ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on the line-of-credit arrangement. The recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected by this amendment. This amended guidance, which is effective beginning January 1, 2016, requires retrospective application, with early adoption permitted. We have early adopted this amended guidance as of the year ended December 31, 2015, and the adoption did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the adoption of this amended guidance.ConsolidationIn February 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance to the consolidation standard which updates the analysis that a reporting entity must perform to determine whether it should consolidate certain types of legal entities. The amendment modifies the evaluation of whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are variable interest entities ( VIEs ) or voting interest entities and affects the consolidation analysis of reporting entities that are involved with VIEs, particularly those that have fee arrangements and related party relationships, among other provisions. This amended guidance will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2016. We do not expect the adoption of this amended guidance to have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.Extraordinary and Unusual ItemsIn January 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance which eliminates the concept of extraordinary items from generally accepted accounting principles. Prior to this amendment, an entity was required to separately classify and present an event or transaction that was determined to be both unusual in nature and infrequent in occurrence as an extraordinary item, net of tax, after income from continuing operations in the income statement. Upon adopting this amended guidance, a material event or transaction that an entity considers to be unusual or infrequent, or both, may still be presented separately but will now be presented on a pre-tax basis within income from continuing operations or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. This amended guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2016 and may be applied retrospectively or prospectively, with early adoption permitted. We have early adopted this amended guidance and applied the presentation prospectively as of the quarter ended March 31, 2015. The adoption did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.Going ConcernIn August 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance which defines management's responsibility to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures. Currently, this evaluation has only been an auditor requirement. Specifically, the amendments (1) provide a definition of the term  substantial doubt,  (2) require an evaluation every reporting period, (3) provide principles for considering the mitigating effect of management s plans, (4) require certain disclosures when substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of the consideration of management s plans, (5) require an express statement and other disclosures when substantial doubt is not alleviated, and (6) require an assessment for a period of one year after the date that financial statements are issued. This amended guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2016. We do not expect the adoption of this amended guidance to have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.76Table of ContentsNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (continued) (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)Note 16:  Results by Quarter (Unaudited)  1The three months ended December 31, 2015 included pre-tax losses of $12.0 on sales of businesses. The three months ended September 30, 2015 included pre-tax losses of $38.0 on sales of businesses. The three months ended June 30, 2014 included a pre-tax loss of $10.4 related to our early extinguishment of debt.2The three months ended December 31, 2014 included a tax benefit of $67.6 due to the net reversal of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in Continental Europe.Note 17:  Subsequent EventsIn February 2016, we announced that our Board had approved a new share repurchase program to repurchase from time to time up to $300.0, excluding fees, of our common stock (the "2016 Share Repurchase Program"). The authorization for repurchases under the 2016 Share Repurchase Program is in addition to any amounts remaining for repurchase under the 2015 Share Repurchase Program. See Note 5 for further information on the 2015 Share Repurchase Program. There is no expiration date associated with the share repurchase programs. We may effect such repurchases through open market purchases, trading plans established in accordance with SEC rules, derivative transactions or other means. We expect to continue to repurchase our common stock in future periods, although the timing and amount of the repurchases will depend on market conditions and other funding requirements.We also announced in February 2016 that our Board had declared a common stock cash dividend of $0.15 per share, payable on March 15, 2016 to holders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2016.77Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial DisclosureNone.Item 9A.Controls and ProceduresEvaluation of disclosure controls and proceduresIn connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, we have carried out an evaluation under the supervision of, and with the participation of, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )). Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded (1) that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2015 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and (2) that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2015 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.Management s report on internal control over financial reportingManagement is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Management (with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer) conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that IPG s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of IPG s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, as stated in their report which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Changes in internal control over financial reportingThere has been no change in internal control over financial reporting in the quarter ended December 31, 2015 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.Item 9B.Other InformationNone.78PART IIIItem 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate GovernanceThe information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the  Election of Directors  section, the  Director Selection Process  section, the  Code of Conduct  section, the "Committees of the Board of Directors" section, the  Audit Committee  section and the  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  section of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19, 2016 (the  Proxy Statement ), except for the description of our Executive Officers, which appears in Part I of this Report on Form 10-K under the heading  Executive Officers of IPG. New York Stock Exchange CertificationIn 2015, our Chief Executive Officer provided the Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange, as required under Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.Item 11.Executive CompensationThe information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the  Executive Compensation  section, the  Non-Management Director Compensation  section, the  Compensation Discussion and Analysis  section and the  Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee Report  section of the Proxy Statement.Item 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder MattersThe information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the  Outstanding Shares and Ownership of Common Stock  section, and the  Equity Compensation Plan Information  section of the Proxy Statement.Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceThe information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the  Transactions with Related Persons  section and the  Director Independence  section of the Proxy Statement.Item 14.Principal Accountant Fees and ServicesThe information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the  Appointment of Registered Public Accounting Firm  section of the Proxy Statement.79PART IVItem 15.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules(a) Listed below are all financial statements, financial statement schedules and exhibits filed as part of this Report on Form 10-K.1. Financial Statements:Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmConsolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements2. Financial Statement Schedules:All financial statement schedules are omitted because they are either not applicable or the required information is otherwise provided.3. Exhibits:All exhibits, including management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements, required pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K to be filed as part of this report or incorporated herein by reference to other documents, are listed in the Exhibit Index that immediately precedes the exhibits filed with this Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits transmitted to the SEC as part of the electronic filing of this Report.80SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. (Registrant)    By/s/ Michael I. Roth  Michael I. RothChairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerDate: February 22, 2016 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.NameTitleDate/s/ Michael I. RothChairman of the Board andChief Executive Officer(Principal Executive Officer)February 22, 2016Michael I. Roth   /s/ Frank MergenthalerExecutive Vice President andChief Financial Officer(Principal Financial Officer)February 22, 2016Frank Mergenthaler   /s/ Christopher F. CarrollSenior Vice President,Controller and Chief Accounting Officer(Principal Accounting Officer)February 22, 2016Christopher F. Carroll   /s/ Jocelyn Carter-MillerDirectorFebruary 22, 2016Jocelyn Carter-Miller   /s/ Deborah G. EllingerDirectorFebruary 22, 2016Deborah G. Ellinger   /s/ H. John GreeniausDirectorFebruary 22, 2016H. John Greeniaus   /s/ Mary J. Steele GuilfoileDirectorFebruary 22, 2016Mary J. Steele Guilfoile   /s/ Dawn HudsonDirectorFebruary 22, 2016Dawn Hudson   /s/ William T. KerrDirectorFebruary 22, 2016William T. Kerr   /s/ Henry S. MillerDirectorFebruary 22, 2016Henry S. Miller   /s/ Jonathan F. MillerDirectorFebruary 22, 2016Jonathan F. Miller   /s/ David M. ThomasDirectorFebruary 22, 2016David M. Thomas81EXHIBIT INDEXExhibit No.  Description3(i)  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant dated as of October 24, 2013, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i)(2) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013.  3(ii)  By-Laws of the Registrant, as amended through October 24, 2013, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013.  4(iii)(A)  Senior Debt Indenture dated as of March 2, 2012 (the "2012 Indenture"), between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 2, 2012.  4(iii)(B)  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 2, 2012, to the 2012 Indenture, with respect to the 4.00% Senior Notes due 2022 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 2, 2012.  4(iii)(C)  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 8, 2012, to the 2012 Indenture, with respect to the 2.25% Senior Notes due 2017 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 8, 2012.  4(iii)(D)  Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 8, 2012, to the 2012 Indenture, with respect to the 3.75% Senior Notes due 2023 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 8, 2012.  4(iii)(E)  Fourth Supplemental Indenture between the Company and US Bank, as Trustee, dated as of April 3, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 3, 2014.  10(i)(A) Credit Agreement, dated as of July 18, 2008, amended and restated as of April 23, 2010, further amended and restated as of May 31, 2011, further amended as of November 6, 2012, further amended and restated as of December 12, 2013, and as further amended and restated as of October 20, 2015 among The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., the lenders named therein and Citibank, as administrative agent is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 22, 2015.   10(i)(B) Agreement, dated February 4, 2015, between the Registrant, Elliott Associates, L.P. and Elliott International, L.P. is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant filed with the SEC on February 6, 2015.   (i) Michael I. Roth   10(iii)(A)(1)  Employment Agreement, made as of July 13, 2004, by and between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(9) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.*   10(iii)(A)(2)  Supplemental Employment Agreement, dated as of January 19, 2005, between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 21, 2005.*   10(iii)(A)(3)  Supplemental Employment Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2005, between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 17, 2005.*   10(iii)(A)(4)  Amendment, made as of September 12, 2007, to an Employment Agreement, made as of July 13, 2004, between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(7) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. *   10(iii)(A)(5)  Amendment, dated May 1, 2008, to an Employment Agreement, made as of July 13, 2004, between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(1) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.*   10(iii)(A)(6)  The Interpublic Senior Executive Retirement Income Plan Participation Agreement, dated March 31, 2008, between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(1) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.*82Exhibit No.  Description10(iii)(A)(7) Executive Change of Control Agreement, effective as of May 27, 2010, by and between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 27, 2010.*  10(iii)(A)(8)  Extension of Existing Executive Change of Control Agreement by and between the Registrant and Michael I. Roth, dated August 29, 2013 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 30, 2013.*   (ii) Andrew Bonzani  10(iii)(A)(9) Employment Agreement, effective as of December 22, 2011, by and between the Registrant and Andrew Bonzani, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit(iii)(A)(8) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*   10(iii)(A)(10) Executive Change of Control Agreement, effective as of December 22, 2011, by and between the Registrant and Andrew Bonzani, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit(iii)(A)(9) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*  10(iii)(A)(11) Extension of Existing Executive Change of Control Agreement by and between the Registrant and Andrew Bonzani, dated August 29, 2013 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 30, 2013.*   (iii) Christopher Carroll   10(iii)(A)(12)  Employment Agreement, made as of April 1, 2006, by and between the Registrant and Christopher Carroll, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(8) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.*  10(iii)(A)(13)  Amendment, dated as of October 29, 2007, to an Employment Agreement, made as of April 1, 2006, between the Registrant and Christopher Carroll, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(9) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.*   10(iii)(A)(14)  Executive Change of Control Agreement, effective as of May 31, 2010, by and between the Registrant and Christopher Carroll, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(10) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.*  10(iii)(A)(15)  Extension of Existing Executive Change of Control Agreement by and between the Registrant and Christopher Carroll, dated August 29, 2013 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 30, 2013.*   (iv) Philippe Krakowsky   10(iii)(A)(16) Executive Special Benefits Agreement, dated as of February 1, 2002, and signed as of August 21, 2002, between the Registrant and Philippe Krakowsky, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(v) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002.*   10(iii)(A)(17) Employment Agreement, made as of January 1, 2006 and executed on March 20, 2006, by and between the Registrant and Philippe Krakowsky, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 24, 2006.*   10(iii)(A)(18)  Amendment, made as of September 12, 2007, to an Employment Agreement, made as of January 1, 2006, between the Registrant and Philippe Krakowsky, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(13) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(19) Amendment, dated September 12, 2007, to an Executive Special Benefit Agreement, dated February 1, 2002, between the Registrant and Philippe Krakowsky, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(15) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(20) Amendment, dated May 1, 2008, to an Employment Agreement, made as of January 1, 2006, between the Registrant and Philippe Krakowsky, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(3) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.*83Exhibit No.  Description10(iii)(A)(21)  Executive Change of Control Agreement, effective as of May 27, 2010, by and between the Registrant and Philippe Krakowsky, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 27, 2010.*  10(iii)(A)(22)  Extension of Existing Executive Change of Control Agreement by and between the Registrant and Philippe Krakowsky, dated August 29, 2013 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 30, 2013.*   (v) Frank Mergenthaler  10(iii)(A)(23)  Employment Agreement, made as of July 13, 2005, between the Registrant and Frank Mergenthaler is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 19, 2005.*  10(iii)(A)(24)  Amendment, made as of September 12, 2007, to an Employment Agreement, made as of July 13, 2005, between the Registrant and Frank Mergenthaler, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(9) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*  10(iii)(A)(25) Amendment, dated May 1, 2008, to an Employment Agreement, made as of July 13, 2005, between the Registrant and Frank Mergenthaler, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(2) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.*   10(iii)(A)(26) Executive Change of Control Agreement, effective as of May 27, 2010, by and between the Registrant and Frank Mergenthaler, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 27, 2010.*  10(iii)(A)(27) Extension of Existing Executive Change of Control Agreement by and between the Registrant and Frank Mergenthaler, dated August 29, 2013 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 30, 2013.*  (vi) Jill M. Considine   10(iii)(A)(28) Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Agreement dated as of September 4, 2008, between the Registrant and Jill M. Considine, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(1) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.*   10(iii)(A)(29) Letter, dated November 2, 2006, from Jill M. Considine to the Registrant, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(B) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.*   (vii) Richard A. Goldstein   10(iii)(A)(30) Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2008, between the Registrant and Richard A. Goldstein, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(3) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.*   10(iii)(A)(31) Letter, dated July 24, 2006, from Richard A. Goldstein to the Registrant, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.*   Compensation Plans and Arrangements:   10(iii)(A)(32)  The Interpublic 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "2004 PIP") is incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Registrant's Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on April 23, 2004.*   10(iii)(A)(33)  2004 PIP - Form of Option Certificate is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 27, 2004.*   10(iii)(A)(34)  The Interpublic 2006 Performance Incentive Plan (the "2006 PIP") is incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on April 27, 2006.*84Exhibit No. Description10(iii)(A)(35)  Amendment to the 2006 PIP is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(1) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(36) 2006 PIP - Form of Instrument of Nonstatutory Stock Options is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 21, 2006.*   10(iii)(A)(37) The Interpublic 2009 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2009 PIP ) is incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 2, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(38) 2009 PIP Restricted Stock Award Agreement (updated 2014) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(57) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.*   10(iii)(A)(39) 2009 PIP Performance Share Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(4) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(40) 2009 PIP Performance Share Award Agreement (updated 2013) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(58) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*   10(iii)(A)(41) 2009 PIP Performance Share Award Agreement (updated 2014) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(61) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(42) 2009 PIP Combined Restricted Stock and Performance Cash Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(6) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(43) 2009 PIP Non-Statutory Stock Option Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(8) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(44) 2009 PIP Performance Cash Award Agreement (updated 2013) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(66) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*   10(iii)(A)(45) 2009 PIP Performance Cash Award Agreement (updated 2014) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(69) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*   10(iii)(A)(46) 2009 PIP Non-Statutory Stock Option Award Agreement (updated 2010) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(89) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.*   10(iii)(A)(47) 2009 PIP Non-Statutory Stock Option Award Agreement (updated 2013) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(68) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*   10(iii)(A)(48) The 2009 Non-Management Directors  Stock Incentive Plan (the  2009 NMD Plan ) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(9) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(49) Amendment to the 2009 NMD Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(2) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.*   10(iii)(A)(50) 2009 NMD Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(10) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(51) 2009 NMD Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (updated 2013) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(3) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.*   10(iii)(A)(52) 2009 NMD Plan Non-Statutory Stock Option Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(12) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(53) Supplement to the 2006 PIP and 2009 PIP is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(88) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.*   10(iii)(A)(54) The Interpublic Group 2014 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2014 PIP ) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 28, 2014.*85Exhibit No. Description10(iii)(A)(55) 2014 PIP Restricted Stock Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(60) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(56)  2014 PIP Performance Share Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(61) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(57)  2014 PIP Performance Cash Award Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(62) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(58) The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2016) of the Registrant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the SEC on December 21, 2015.*   10(iii)(A)(59)  The Interpublic Group Executive Performance (162(m)) Plan) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 28, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(60)  The Interpublic Executive Severance Plan, amended and restated, effective August 1, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(3) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(61)  The Interpublic Senior Executive Retirement Income Plan, Amended and Restated (the "Restated SERIP"), effective January 1, 2007, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(1) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(62) Restated SERIP - Form of Restated Participation Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(2) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(63)  Restated SERIP - Form of Participation Agreement (Form For New Participants) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(3) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(64)  The Interpublic Senior Executive Retirement Income Plan, amended and restated, effective August 1, 2014, and form of Participation Agreement for New Participants is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(2) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(65)  The Interpublic Capital Accumulation Plan, Amended and Restated (the  Restated CAP ), effective January 1, 2007, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(4) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(66)  Restated CAP - Form of Restated Participation Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(5) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(67)  Restated CAP - Form of Participation Agreement (Form For New Participants), is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(6) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.*   10(iii)(A)(68)  The Interpublic Capital Accumulation Plan, amended and restated, effective August 1, 2014, and form of Participation Agreement for New Participants is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(1) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the  Company ), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on July 24, 2014.*   10(iii)(A)(69)  Description of Changes to the Compensation for Non-Management Directors.*   86Exhibit No. Description12  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  21  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.  23  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  24  Power of Attorney to sign Form 10-K and resolution of Board of Directors re Power of Attorney.  31.1  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  31.2  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   32  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer furnished pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  101  Interactive Data File, for the period ended December 31, 2015. * Management contracts and compensation plans and arrangements.87   