<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10k_03.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FOR THE PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003
<TEXT>


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    ---------
                                    FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003
                                       OR
[  ]        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        For the transition period from to
                          Commission file number 1-9318

                            FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            DELAWARE                                             13-2670991
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

ONE FRANKLIN PARKWAY, SAN MATEO, CA                                      94403
(Address of principal executive offices)                              (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including Area Code: (650) 312-2000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
  TITLE OF EACH CLASS                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
  -------------------                  -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value                          New York Stock Exchange
   $.10 per share                                    Pacific Exchange
                                                  London Stock Exchange

    SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

                                      None

Indicate by "X" mark whether the Registrant  (1) has filed all reports  required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. YES[X] NO[  ]

Indicate by "X" mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and will not be contained,  to the best
of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by "X" mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated  filer (as defined
in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
YES[X] NO[  ]

The  aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  ("Common  Stock")  held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant, as of March 31, 2003 (the last business day of
Registrant's  second quarter of fiscal 2003),  was  approximately  $4.75 billion
based  upon the last sale  price  reported  for such date on the New York  Stock
Exchange.  For  purposes  of this  disclosure,  shares of Common  Stock  held by
persons  who hold more  than 5% of the  outstanding  shares of Common  Stock and
shares held by officers  and  directors  of the  Registrant  have been  excluded
because such persons may be deemed to be affiliates.  This  determination is not
necessarily  conclusive.

Number of shares of the  Registrant's  common stock  outstanding  at December 1,
2003: 248,473,077

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Certain portions of the  Registrant's  proxy statement for its annual meeting of
stockholders (the "Proxy  Statement") to be held on January 29, 2004, which will
be  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  (the  "SEC"),  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.


<PAGE>


                       INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                                                      PAGE
                                                                     NUMBER
                                                               REFERENCE TO THIS
      FORM 10-K                                               2003 ANNUAL REPORT
REQUIRED INFORMATION                                             ON FORM 10-K

PART I
   ITEM 1.  BUSINESS                                                    4
              General                                                   4
              Company History and Acquisitions                          4
              Lines of Business                                         5
               Investment Management and Related Services               5
               Banking/Finance Operations                              19
              Regulatory Considerations                                20
              Competition                                              22
              Financial Information About Industry Segments            22
              Intellectual Property                                    22
              Employees                                                23
              Available Information                                    23
              Executive Officers of the Registrant                     23

   ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES                                                 25

   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS                                          26

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
              SECURITY HOLDERS                                         26

PART II

   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
              EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS                   26

   ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA                                    27

   ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
              FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            27

   ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
              ABOUT MARKET RISK                                        44

   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                45

   ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
              ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE                   79

   ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES                                    79

PART III

   ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT         79
               Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors"*

   ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION                                     79
               Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors"*

   ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
              OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT                                    80
               Equity Compensation Plan Information
               Proxy: "Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders"
                 and "Security Ownership of Management"*

                                       2
<PAGE>


                                                                      PAGE
                                                                     NUMBER
                                                               REFERENCE TO THIS
      FORM 10-K                                               2003 ANNUAL REPORT
REQUIRED INFORMATION                                             ON FORM 10-K


   ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
              TRANSACTIONS                                             80
               Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors -
                 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"*

   ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES                     80

PART IV

   ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
              REPORTS ON FORM 8-K                                      81

   SIGNATURES                                                          82

*  Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement.



                                       3
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS. In addition to historical information,  this Annual
Report on Form 10-K contains  forward-looking  statements that involve risks and
uncertainties,  including  the risk factors  explained  in the section  entitled
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations  ("MD&A"),  that could cause our actual results to differ  materially
from  those  reflected  in the  forward-looking  statements.  When  used in this
report,  words or phrases about the future such as "expected to",  "could have",
"will  continue",   "anticipates",   "estimates"  or  similar   expressions  are
"forward-looking  statements"  as defined in the Private  Securities  Litigation
Reform  Act of  1995.  Statements  in MD&A and  elsewhere  in this  report  that
speculate about future events are "forward-looking statements".  Forward-looking
statements  are our best  prediction  at the time that  they are  made,  and you
should  not  rely on them.  If a  circumstance  occurs  that  causes  any of our
forward-looking  statements  to be  inaccurate,  we do not have an obligation to
announce publicly the change to our expectations, or to make any revision to the
forward-looking statements.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

Franklin Resources,  Inc. ("FRI" or the "Company"),  is a diversified  financial
services  company,  which is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank
Holding  Company Act of 1956,  as amended  (the "BHC  Act"),  and as a financial
holding company under the  Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act (the "GLB Act").  Through our
wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiary companies,  we provide a broad range
of investment advisory,  investment  management and related services to open-end
investment  companies,   including  our  own  family  of  retail  mutual  funds,
institutional  accounts,  high  net-worth  families,  individuals  and  separate
accounts in the United States (the "U.S.") and  internationally.  Our "sponsored
investment products" include a broad range of domestic and  global/international
equity, hybrid/balanced,  fixed-income, and money market mutual funds as well as
other  investment  products,  which are sold to the public  under the  Franklin,
Templeton,  Mutual  Series,  Bissett  and  Fiduciary  Trust brand  names.  As of
September 30, 2003, we had $301.9  billion in assets under our  management  with
approximately 14.2 million billable shareholder  accounts worldwide.  In support
of our primary business and operating segment,  investment  management,  we also
provide   certain   related   services,    including   transfer   agency,   fund
administration,  distribution,  shareholder processing,  custodial,  trustee and
other  fiduciary  services.  In our secondary  business and  operating  segment,
banking/finance, we provide clients with select retail-banking and consumer loan
services through our bank subsidiaries. The common stock of FRI is traded in the
U.S. primarily on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange under the
ticker  symbol  "BEN" and under the  ticker  symbol  "FRK" on the  London  Stock
Exchange.  The  term  "Franklin(R)  Templeton(R)  Investments"  as  used in this
document, refers to Franklin Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

COMPANY HISTORY AND ACQUISITIONS

Franklin  Templeton  Investments and its  predecessors  have been engaged in the
financial   services  business  since  1947.   Franklin   Resources,   Inc.  was
incorporated  in  Delaware  in  November  1969.  We  originated  our mutual fund
business with the Franklin  family of funds,  which is now known as the Franklin
Funds(R).  We expanded our business,  in part, by acquiring companies engaged in
the investment advisory and investment management business.

In October 1992, we acquired  substantially all of the assets and liabilities of
the investment  adviser to the Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. financial
services  business.  This acquisition added the Templeton family of funds to our
Company.  The  Templeton  funds are known for  their  international  and  global
investment objectives and value style of investing.

In November 1996, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of Heine Securities
Corporation,  which provided investment  management services to various accounts
and  investment  companies,  including  Mutual  Series  Fund Inc.,  now known as
Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc. ("Mutual Series").  The Mutual Series funds are
primarily value oriented equity funds.

We  expanded  our  business in Korea in July 2000 when we  purchased  all of the
remaining  outstanding shares of a Korean asset management  company, in which we
previously held a partial interest.  With assets under


                                       4
<PAGE>

management approaching $3 billion in Korea, we are now one of the larger foreign
money managers in that country.

We acquired all of the  outstanding  shares of Bissett &  Associates  Investment
Management,  Ltd.  ("Bissett")  in October 2000 for  approximately  $95 million.
Bissett now  operates as part of our  Canadian  subsidiary,  Franklin  Templeton
Investments  Corp.  ("FTIC").  With the addition of Bissett,  we added Bissett's
family of mutual  funds to our  existing  Canadian  based funds and expanded our
investment  advisory  services  throughout  Canada to a broad  range of clients,
including   institutional   clients  such  as  pension  plans,   municipalities,
universities, charitable foundations and private clients.

In April  2001,  we  acquired  Fiduciary  Trust  Company  International,  a bank
organized  under the New York State Banking Law ("Fiduciary  Trust").  Following
the  acquisition,  Fiduciary Trust became a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Franklin
Resources,  Inc. The stock transaction was valued at approximately  $776 million
at closing.  Fiduciary Trust has a reputation as one of the leading providers of
investment  management and related trust and custody  services to  institutional
clients and high net-worth  families and  individuals.  With the  acquisition of
Fiduciary Trust, we also added Fiduciary Trust's U.S. and non-U.S.  mutual funds
to our product line.

In July 2002,  our 75% owned  subsidiary,  Templeton  Asset  Management  (India)
Private  Limited,  acquired  all of the  outstanding  shares of Pioneer  ITI AMC
Limited  ("Pioneer")  for  approximately  $55.4  million.  Pioneer  is an Indian
investment  management  company with  approximately $800 million in assets under
management as of the purchase date. The  acquisition  made us one of the largest
private  sector fund  companies in India,  with  combined  assets at the time of
acquisition  of  approximately  $1.6 billion and more than  850,000  shareholder
accounts.

In October 2003, we acquired Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd. and Darby Overseas
Partners,  L.P.  (collectively,  "Darby") for $75.9  million.  We had previously
owned 12.66% of Darby, and with the completion of the acquisition, we now have a
100%  ownership  interest.  The  acquisition  was  made  in  accordance  with an
agreement  entered into on August 1, 2003.  Darby,  based in  Washington,  D.C.,
sponsors  and  manages  funds for  institutional  investors  and high  net-worth
clients that invest  primarily in emerging  markets private equity and mezzanine
finance transactions, including specialized sector funds.

LINES OF BUSINESS

I.   INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SERVICES

We derive  substantially all of our revenues from providing investment advisory,
investment management,  distribution and administrative  services to our various
family of funds,  high net-worth  clients,  institutional  accounts and separate
accounts.  Our  revenues  depend to a large extent on the amount of assets under
management.  Underwriting  and  distribution  revenues,  also a large  source of
revenue,  consist of sales  charges and  commissions  derived  from sales of our
sponsored  investment  products and  distribution and service fees. When used in
this  report  "Franklin  Templeton  mutual  funds" or  "funds"  means all of the
Franklin,  Templeton,  Mutual Series, Bissett, and Fiduciary Trust mutual funds;
"sponsored investment products" means all of the Franklin Templeton mutual funds
together  with  closed-end   investment  companies,   foreign-based   investment
products,  and  other  U.S.  and  international  private,  institutional,   high
net-worth and separate accounts.



                                       5
<PAGE>

A.   ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT ("AUM")

Investment  management fees, our most substantial  source of revenue,  are based
upon the dollar  value of assets under  management,  because we earn most of our
revenues  from fees  linked to the  amount  of  assets in the  accounts  that we
advise.  As of  September  30,  2003,  the type of assets  under  management  by
investment objective held by investors on a worldwide basis was:

<TABLE>

TYPE OF ASSETS                                                       VALUE IN BILLIONS         % TOTAL OF AUM
-------------------------------------------------------------------  -----------------         --------------
<S>                                                                             <C>                      <C>
EQUITY
Growth potential, income potential or various combinations thereof.             $155.2                   51%

FIXED-INCOME
Both long and short-term.                                                        $95.1                   32%

HYBRID/BALANCED
Asset allocation, balanced, flexible and income-mixed funds.                     $45.8                   15%

MONEY MARKET
Short-term liquid assets.                                                         $5.8                    2%
</TABLE>

Broadly  speaking,  the  change in the net  assets of the  sponsored  investment
products depends upon two factors:  (1) the level of sales (inflows) as compared
to the level of redemptions (outflows);  and (2) the increase or decrease in the
market  value  of the  securities  held in the  portfolio  of  investments.  The
organization is subject to the risk of asset volatility,  resulting from changes
in the domestic and global financial and equity markets. In addition, because we
generally  derive higher revenues and income from our equity assets,  a shift in
assets from equity to  fixed-income  and  hybrid/balanced  funds  reduces  total
revenue and thus, net income. Despite such risk of asset volatility,  we believe
that we are more  competitive as a result of the greater  diversity of sponsored
investment products available to our customer base.

B.   TYPES OF INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SERVICES

A majority of our  revenues are derived from  providing  investment  management,
advisory,  distribution,  transfer agency and related  services for the Franklin
Templeton  mutual  funds.  We  advise,   manage  and  implement  the  investment
activities of and provide other administrative services necessary to operate our
registered investment companies,  the related U.S.-open-end and closed-end funds
or series and our many non-U.S. based sponsored investment products.

1.   FUND ADVISORY SERVICES

We earn investment  management fee revenues by providing investment advisory and
management services pursuant to investment management agreements with each fund.
This  business  is  primarily  conducted  through  our  wholly-owned  direct and
indirect subsidiary companies, including, among others, the following:

Fiduciary International, Inc. ("FII"), a registered investment adviser under the
Investment  Advisers  Act of 1940  (the  "Advisers  Act"),  provides  investment
advisory and portfolio management to certain mutual funds and separate accounts;

Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.  ("FAV"),  a registered  investment  adviser under the
Advisers  Act,   provides   investment   advisory,   portfolio   management  and
administrative services to various Franklin Templeton mutual funds, sub-advisory
services to  non-affiliated  entities  and  advisory  services to  institutional
accounts;

Franklin Advisory Services,  LLC ("FAS"), a registered  investment adviser under
the Advisers Act, provides investment advisory and portfolio management services
to certain of the Franklin Templeton mutual funds and also provides sub-advisory
services to non-affiliated entities;

Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC ("FMA"), a registered investment adviser under the
Advisers  Act,  provides  investment  and portfolio  management  services to the
Mutual  Series  funds and also to several  of the  Franklin  Templeton  Variable
Insurance Products Trust funds;

Franklin  Templeton   Alternative   Strategies,   Inc.  ("FTAS"),  a  registered
investment  adviser  under the  Advisers  Act and a  registered  Commodity  Pool
Operator  under  the  Commodity  Exchange  Act,  provides  investment  advisory,
portfolio  management  and  administrative  services to certain of our sponsored
investment products with mandates in alternative investments;


                                       6
<PAGE>

Franklin Templeton  Institutional,  LLC ("FTI"), a registered investment adviser
under the Advisers Act, provides investment  advisory,  portfolio management and
administrative services to institutional clients;

Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited ("FTIML"), a registered foreign
equivalent  investment adviser in the United Kingdom and a registered investment
adviser  under the Advisers Act,  serves as an investment  adviser to various of
our investment companies registered in foreign jurisdictions, including Europe;

Franklin  Templeton  Investment  Trust  Management  Co.,  Ltd.   ("FTITMC"),   a
registered foreign equivalent  investment adviser in Korea,  provides investment
trust  management  services and also manages equity and fixed income products in
Korea;

Franklin Templeton  Investments (Asia) Limited ("FTIL"), a registered investment
adviser under the Advisers Act and a foreign equivalent of an investment adviser
in Hong Kong,  provides  certain  advisory  services and distributes  investment
products in Hong Kong;

Franklin Templeton  Investments Corp.  ("FTIC"), a registered foreign equivalent
investment adviser with many of the Canadian  securities  commissions,  a mutual
fund dealer  with the  Ontario  Securities  Commission  and  Alberta  Securities
Commission and an investment adviser under the Advisers Act, provides investment
advisory,  portfolio  management,  distribution and administrative  services for
Canadian   registered   retail  funds  and  sub-advisory   services  to  certain
institutional and private accounts;

Franklin  Templeton  Investments Japan Limited  ("FTIJL"),  a registered foreign
equivalent investment adviser in Japan, provides investment advisory,  portfolio
management  and  administrative  services  to  certain of our funds in Japan and
manages Japan equity funds that are sold in other regions;

Templeton  Asset  Management  (India)  Private  Limited  ("TAMPL"),   an  "Asset
Management  Company"  approved by the  Securities  and Exchange  Board of India,
provides investment advisory,  portfolio management and administrative  services
to certain mutual funds in India;

Templeton Asset Management Ltd. ("TAML"), a registered  investment adviser under
the Advisers  Act and a  registered  foreign  equivalent  investment  adviser in
Singapore and Hong Kong,  provides  investment  advisory and related services to
certain Templeton developing markets funds and portfolios;

Templeton  Global Advisors Limited  ("TGAL"),  a registered  investment  adviser
under the Advisers Act, provides investment advisory,  portfolio management, and
administrative  services to certain of the Templeton funds and advisory services
to institutional and private accounts; and

Templeton  Investment  Counsel,  LLC ("TICL"),  a registered  investment adviser
under the Advisers Act, provides investment  advisory,  portfolio management and
administrative services to certain of the Templeton funds, sub-advisory services
to certain of the Franklin  Funds and  advisory  services to  institutional  and
private accounts.

Our subsidiary  investment  advisers conduct  investment  research and determine
which  securities  the  U.S.-registered   open-end  and  closed-end  funds  will
purchase,  hold or sell under the  supervision and oversight of the fund's board
of trustees,  directors or administrative  managers. In addition, the subsidiary
companies  take all steps  necessary  to  implement  such  decisions,  including
selecting brokers and dealers,  executing and settling trades in accordance with
detailed criteria set forth in the management  agreement for each fund, internal
policies,  and  applicable  law  and  practice.  In  addition,  certain  of  our
subsidiary  companies provide similar  investment  management and administrative
services to a number of non-U.S.  open-end and closed-end  investment companies,
as well as other U.S.  and  international  private and  institutional  accounts,
including certain of our sponsored  investment companies organized in Luxembourg
and Ireland.

Our investment  advisory services include  fundamental  investment  research and
valuation analyses, including original economic, political, industry and company
research, company visits and inspections, and the utilization of such sources as
company public records and activities,  management interviews,  company prepared
information,  and other publicly available  information,  as well as analyses of
suppliers, customers and competitors. In addition, research services provided by
brokerage firms are used to support our findings.

Investment  management and related services are provided  pursuant to agreements
in effect  with  each of our  U.S.-registered  open-end  and  closed-end  funds.
Comparable  agreements are in effect with  foreign-registered  funds and private
accounts. In general, the management agreements for our U.S.-registered open-end
and  closed-end  funds  must be  renewed  each  year,  and must be  specifically
approved  at  least  annually  by a vote of


                                       7
<PAGE>

such  funds'  board of trustees  or  directors  or by a vote of the holders of a
majority of such funds' outstanding voting securities.  Foreign-registered funds
and private and  institutional  accounts have various  termination  rights,  and
review and renewal provisions that are not discussed in this report.

Under the majority of  investment  management  agreements,  the  U.S.-registered
open-end and closed-end funds pay us a fee payable monthly in arrears based upon
a fund's  average  daily net assets.  Annual fee rates under the various  global
investment  management  agreements  generally  range  from 0.15% to a maximum of
2.50% and are often reduced as net assets exceed various threshold  levels.  The
funds  generally pay their own expenses  such as legal,  custody and audit fees,
reporting  costs,  board  and  shareholder  meeting  costs,  the  United  States
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  ("SEC") and state  registration  fees and
similar expenses.

We use a "master/feeder"  fund structure in certain  situations.  This structure
allows an investment  adviser to manage a single  portfolio of securities at the
"master  fund" level and have multiple  "feeder  funds" that invest all of their
respective   assets  into  the  master  fund.   Individual   and   institutional
shareholders  invest in the "feeder  funds" which can offer a variety of service
and distribution  options.  An advisory fee is charged at the master fund level,
and administrative and shareholder servicing fees are charged at the feeder fund
level.

Our investment  management  agreements  permit us to serve as an adviser to more
than one fund so long as our ability to render  services to each of the funds is
not impaired,  and so long as purchases and sales for various  advised funds are
made on an equitable basis.  Our management  personnel and the fund directors or
boards of trustees  regularly review the fund advisory and other  administrative
fee  structures  in light of fund  performance,  the level and range of services
provided,  industry  conditions and other relevant  factors.  Advisory and other
administrative  fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund
is established  and then  increased to contractual  levels within an established
timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels.

Each U.S.  investment  management or advisory  agreement  between certain of our
subsidiary companies and each fund automatically  terminates in the event of its
"assignment", as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the " `40 Act").
In addition,  either party may  terminate the  agreement  without  penalty after
written notice ranging from 30 to 60 days. If management agreements representing
a significant  portion of our assets under management were terminated,  it would
have a material  adverse impact on our Company.  To date, none of our management
agreements  with any of our retail  Franklin  Templeton  mutual  funds have been
involuntarily terminated.



2.   UNDERWRITING AND DISTRIBUTION

A large  portion  of our  revenues  under the  investment  management  operating
segment are generated from providing  underwriting  and  distribution  services.
Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. ("FTDI"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company,  acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of most of
our   U.S.-registered   open-end   mutual   funds.   During  fiscal  year  2003,
Templeton/Franklin  Investment  Services,  Inc.  ("TFIS")  served  as  principal
underwriter and distributor for several of our U.S. funds. We earn  underwriting
and   distribution   fees  primarily  by  distributing  the  funds  pursuant  to
distribution  agreements  between  FTDI  or  TFIS  and  the  funds.  Under  each
distribution  agreement,  we offer and sell the  fund's  shares on a  continuous
basis and pay certain costs  associated with  underwriting  and distributing the
funds,  including the costs of developing  and producing  sales  literature  and
printing of prospectuses, which may be then either partially or fully reimbursed
by the funds.

Most of our U.S. and  non-U.S.-registered  retail funds are  distributed  with a
multi-class  share  structure.  We  adopted  this  share  structure  to  provide
investors with greater sales charge alternatives for their investments.  Class A
shares  represent  a  traditional  fee  structure  whereby the  investor  pays a
commission at the time of purchase unless minimum  investment  criteria are met.
Class B  shares,  which  are  available  in many of our  funds in the  U.S.  and
globally,  have no front-end sales charges but instead have a declining schedule
of sales charges  (called  contingent  deferred  sales  charges) if the investor
redeems within a number of years from the original purchase date. Class C shares
have a pricing structure combining aspects of conventional  front-end,  back-end
and level-load pricing.  Class R shares with reduced sales charges are available
for purchase by certain retirement plan accounts in the U.S. only.

Globally, we offer Advisor Class shares in many of our Franklin Templeton mutual
funds  and in the U.S.  we offer Z Class  shares  in  Mutual  Series  funds on a
limited basis, both of which have no sales charges. Franklin Global Trust offers
four  series of funds,  managed by our  subsidiary  FII,  which are sold with no
sales  charge to high net-worth  clients of Fiduciary  Trust.  The Advisor and Z
Class  shares are  available  to our  officers,


                                       8
<PAGE>

directors,  current and former  employees,  and are also offered to institutions
and investment  advisory clients (both affiliated and unaffiliated),  as well as
individuals  generally  investing $5 million or more.  In the U.S., we also sell
money  market  funds to investors  without a sales  charge.  Under the terms and
conditions  described  in the  prospectuses  or  the  statements  of  additional
information for some funds,  certain  investors can purchase shares at net asset
value or at reduced sales charges. In addition, investors may generally exchange
their  shares of a fund at net asset  value for shares  within the same class of
another  Franklin  Templeton  mutual fund without having to pay additional sales
charges.

Our insurance  product funds offered for sale in the U.S. have a two-class share
structure,  Class 1 and Class 2, which are offered at net asset value  without a
sales  load  directly  to  the   insurance   company   separate   accounts  (the
shareholder). The only difference between the two classes is that Class 2 shares
are assessed a distribution  and service fee ("12b-1 fee") (as described  below)
payable to those who sell and distribute  Class 2 shares and provide services to
shareholders and contract owners (e.g.,  FTDI), the insurance company or others.
These 12b-1 fees are generally  assessed quarterly at an annual rate of 0.25% of
the average daily net assets of the class.

Globally,  we offer other types of share classes based on the local needs of the
investors in a  particular  market.  In the majority of cases,  investors in any
class of shares within the U.S. or globally may exchange their shares for a like
class of shares in another fund, subject to certain fees that may apply.

The following table  summarizes the sales charges and  distribution  and service
fee structure for various  share  classes of our  U.S.-registered  retail mutual
funds.  The fees below  generally  apply to our  U.S.-registered  retail  mutual
funds, however, there are exceptions to this fee schedule for some funds.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

SALES CHARGES AND DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE FEES FOR MOST U.S.-REGISTERED RETAIL FUNDS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                CLASS A       CLASS B        CLASS C SHARES
U.S. RETAIL FUNDS               SHARES        SHARES (c)     (d)                CLASS R SHARES
------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------------ ---------------------
Sales Charge at Time of Sale
<S>                             <C>           <C>            <C>                <C>
  Equity                        5.75%  (a)    None.          1.00%              None.
  Fixed-income                  4.25%  (a)    None.          1.00%              None.
------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------------ ---------------------
Contingent Deferred Sales       None.  (b)    4% maximum     1% if              1% if shareholder
Charge                                        declining      shareholder        sells shares
                                              to zero        sells shares       within 18 months
                                              after 6        within 18          of investment.
                                              years of       months of
                                              each           investment.
                                              investment.
------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------------ ---------------------
Maximum Yearly 12b-1 Plan Fees
  Equity                        0.35%         1.00%          1.00%              0.50%
  Fixed-income
    Taxable                     0.25%         0.65%          0.65%              0.50%
    Tax-free                    0.10%         0.65%          0.65%              None.
------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------------ ---------------------
Types of investors that may     Any.          Any.           Any.               See Note (f) below.
purchase this share class
------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------------ ---------------------

</TABLE>


                                       9
<PAGE>
<TABLE>

U.S. RETAIL FUNDS               ADVISOR CLASS SHARES         Z CLASS SHARES (e)
------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>                          <C>
Sales Charge At Time of Sale    None.                        None.
  Equity
  Fixed-income
------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------
Contingent Deferred Sales       None.                        None.
Charge
------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------
Maximum Yearly 12b-1 Plan Fees  None.                        None.
------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------
Types of investors that may     Officers, directors and      Officers, directors and current and
purchase this share class       current and former           former employees of Franklin
                                employees of Franklin        Templeton Investments; institutions,
                                Templeton Investments;       investment advisory clients,
                                institutions, investment     individuals investing $5 million or
                                advisory clients,            more in Franklin Templeton mutual
                                individuals investing $5     funds or Mutual Series funds and
                                million or more in           shareholders that hold shares of the
                                Franklin, Templeton mutual   Mutual Series funds reclassified as Z
                                funds or Mutual Series       Class shares.
                                funds.
------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(a)  Reductions in the maximum sales charges may be available depending upon the
     amount  invested  and the type of  investor.  In some  cases  noted in each
     fund's prospectus or statement of additional information, certain investors
     may  invest  in Class A shares  at net  asset  value  (with  no  load).  In
     connection with certain of these no-load purchases, FTDI may make a payment
     out of its own resources to a broker/dealer involved with that sale.
(b)  For Net  Asset  Value  ("NAV")  purchases  over $1  million,  a  contingent
     deferred sales charge ("CDSC") of 1.00% may apply to shares redeemed within
     18 months.
(c)  Class B  shares  convert  to  Class A  shares  after  eight  (8)  years  of
     ownership.
(d)  FTDI pays a 2.00% dealer commission to brokers of record of Class C shares,
     which consists of a 1.00% sales charge assessed to the investor at the time
     of sale, and 1.00% of which is paid by FTDI. FTDI recovers a portion of the
     amount it pays to brokers by retaining  certain 12b-1 fees assessed  during
     the first 12 months and from collecting  contingent  deferred sales charges
     on any redemptions made within 18 months of the time of sale.
(e)  When the Company  entered into  management  contracts for the Mutual Series
     funds, the outstanding shares of Mutual Series funds were reclassified as Z
     Class shares on October 31, 1996.  Current  shareholders who held shares of
     any Mutual  Series  funds on October  31,  1996 may  continue to purchase Z
     Class shares of any Mutual Series fund.  Shareholders of the Z Class shares
     may also  exchange into Advisor  Class shares of other  Franklin  Templeton
     mutual funds if otherwise  meeting the Advisor  Class  shares'  eligibility
     requirements. Alternatively, Z Class shareholders may exchange into Class A
     shares of other Franklin  Templeton mutual funds at net asset value,  which
     are subject to 12b-1 fees. FTDI may make a payment out of its own resources
     to a broker/dealer involved in selling Z Class shares.
(f)  The types of investors that may purchase Class R shares  include,  employer
     sponsored retirement plans; plans serviced by FTIS with assets of less than
     $10 million;  any trust or plan established as part of a qualified  tuition
     program  under  Section 529 of the Internal  Revenue  Code;  DCS Plans with
     assets of less than $10 million;  and investors who open a rollover account
     with less than $1 million or a rollover  account from a Franklin  Templeton
     money  purchase  plan in  existence  prior to  January  1, 2002 to a new or
     existing profit sharing plan.

Our non-U.S.-registered funds, including the Tax Class shares offered in Canada,
have various  sales  charges and fee  structures  that are not discussed in this
report.

The distribution  agreements with the U.S.-registered  Franklin Templeton mutual
funds  generally  provide for FTDI to pay commission  expenses for sales of fund
shares to broker/dealers. These broker/dealers receive various sales commissions
and other fees from FTDI, including fees from the investors in the funds and the
funds themselves, for services in matching investors with funds whose investment
objectives  match such investors'  goals and risk profiles.  Broker/dealers  may
also receive fees for their  assistance  in  explaining  the  operations  of the
funds,  in  servicing  the  investor's  account,  reporting  and  various  other
distribution services.  Franklin Templeton mutual fund shares are sold primarily
through a large network of independent intermediaries, including broker/dealers,
banks and other similar financial advisers.  We are heavily dependent upon these
distribution   channels  and  business   relationships.   There  is   increasing
competition  for access to these  channels,  which has  caused our  distribution
costs to rise and could cause  further  increases  in the future as  competition
continues and service  expectations  increase.  As of September  30, 2003,  over
3,700 local, regional, and national securities brokerage firms offered shares of
the  U.S.-registered  Franklin  Templeton mutual funds for sale to the investing
public.  In the  U.S.,  we  have  approximately  69  general  wholesalers  and 7
retirement plan wholesalers who interface with the broker/dealer community.

                                       10
<PAGE>
Most of the U.S.-registered  Franklin Templeton mutual funds, with the exception
of certain  Franklin  Templeton  money market funds,  have adopted  distribution
plans  (the  "Plans")  under  Rule  12b-1  promulgated  under the `40 Act ("Rule
12b-1").  The Plans are  established  for an  initial  term of one (1) year and,
thereafter,  must  be  approved  annually  by the  particular  fund's  board  of
directors/trustees    and   by   a   majority   of   its   disinterested    fund
directors/trustees.  All such Plans are subject to  termination at any time by a
majority vote of the disinterested  directors/trustees or by the particular fund
shareholders.  The Plans permit the funds to bear certain  expenses  relating to
the distribution of their shares,  such as expenses for marketing,  advertising,
printing and sales  promotion.  The  implementation  of the Plans provided for a
lower fee on Class A shares  acquired prior to the adoption of such Plans.  Fees
from the Plans are paid primarily to third-party  dealers who provide service to
the shareholder accounts, and engage in distribution  activities.  FTDI may also
receive  reimbursement  from the funds for various  expenses that FTDI incurs in
distributing  the funds,  such as  marketing,  advertising,  printing  and sales
promotion  subject  to the  Plans'  limitations  on  amounts.  Each  fund  has a
percentage  limit for these types of expenses  based on average daily net assets
under management.

Similar  arrangements exist with the distribution of our global funds and in all
cases the  distributor  of the funds in the local  market  arranges for and pays
commission.

Class B and C shares are  generally  more costly to us in the year of sale,  but
they  allow  us  to  be  competitive  by  increasing  our  presence  in  various
distribution  channels.  We have arranged to finance Class B and certain Class C
share  deferred  commissions  arising  from  our  U.S.,  Canadian  and  European
operations through Lightning Finance Company Limited, a company in which we have
a 49% ownership interest.  The repayment of the financing advances is limited to
the cash  flows  generated  by the  funds'  12b-1  Plans  and by any  contingent
deferred sales charges  collected in connection with early  redemptions  (within
six years after purchase on Class B shares).

The sales commissions and payments below, payable to qualifying  broker/dealers,
generally  apply  to  our  U.S.-registered  retail  funds,  however,  there  are
exceptions to this schedule for some funds.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
SALES COMMISSIONS AND OTHER PAYMENTS PAID TO QUALIFYING BROKER/DEALERS AND
OTHER INTERMEDIARIES FOR MOST U.S.-REGISTERED RETAIL FUNDS

U.S. RETAIL FUNDS                   CLASS A SHARES  CLASS B SHARES  CLASS C SHARES CLASS R SHARES (g)
----------------------------------- --------------- --------------- -------------- ------------------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>            <C>             <C>
Dealer Commission at Time of Sale
  Equity                                5.00%           4.00%          2.00%           1.00%
  Fixed-income                          4.00%           3.00% (b)      2.00%           1.00%
----------------------------------- --------------- --------------- -------------- ------------------
Maximum Yearly 12b-1 Plan Fees

  Equity                                0.25% (a)       1.00% (c)      1.00% (e)       0.35%
  Fixed-income                                                                         0.35%
    Taxable                             0.25% (a)       0.65% (d)      0.65% (f)
    Tax-free                            0.10%           0.65% (d)      0.65% (f)
----------------------------------- --------------- --------------- -------------- ------------------
</TABLE>
(a)  The fees  referenced  above  generally  apply,  however,  there are certain
     individual  funds that may apply a different fee  structure,  including the
     Rising Dividends Fund whose 12b-1 fee is 0.50%,  certain equity funds whose
     12b-1 fees are 0.35% and  certain  taxable  fixed-income  funds whose 12b-1
     fees are 0.15%.
(b)  Certain fixed-income funds now pay 4.00%.
(c)  FTDI receives a fee equal to 0.75% and pays 0.25% to the  broker/dealer  on
     the daily average assets in the account. After 8 years from the date of the
     investment, Class B shares are converted into Class A shares.
(d)  FTDI receives a fee equal to 0.50% and pays 0.15% to the  broker/dealer  on
     the daily average assets in the account. After 8 years from the date of the
     investment, Class B shares are converted into Class A shares.
(e)  FTDI  retains a fee equal to 0.75% and pays 0.25% to the  dealer/broker  on
     the  average  assets  in the  account  for the  first  twelve  (12)  months
     following  the  sale,  after  which  the  full  12b-1  fee is  paid  to the
     broker/dealer.
(f)  FTDI  retains a fee equal to 0.50% and pays 0.15% to the  dealer/broker  on
     the assets in the account for the first  twelve (12) months  following  the
     sale, after which it is paid to the broker/dealer.
(g)  With respect to Class R Shares,  dealers may be eligible to receive a 12b-1
     fee of 0.35%  starting in the 13th month.  During the first 12 months,  the
     full 12b-1 fee will be paid to FTDI to partially offset  commission paid at
     the time of purchase.  Starting in the 13th month, FTDI will receive 0.15%.
     Dealers may be eligible to receive the full 0.50% 12b-1 fee starting at the
     time of purchase if they forego the prepaid commission of 1%.

Our various foreign subsidiaries provide underwriting and distribution  services
for  our  non-U.S.-registered  open-end  mutual  funds,  and pay  various  sales
commissions   and  other  payments  to  qualifying   broker  dealers  and  other
intermediaries who are not discussed in this report.

                                       11
<PAGE>

3.   SHAREHOLDER SERVICES

Our subsidiary,  Franklin Templeton Investor  Services,  LLC ("FTIS"),  provides
shareholder   record   keeping   services   and  acts  as  transfer   agent  and
dividend-paying agent for the U.S.-registered Franklin Templeton open-end funds.
FTIS is  registered  with  the SEC as a  transfer  agent  under  the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.  FTIS is compensated  under an agreement with each fund on
the basis of an annual fee per account,  which varies with the fund and the type
of services being provided,  and is reimbursed for  out-of-pocket  expenses.  In
addition, certain funds compensate FTIS based on assets under management.  Other
subsidiaries provide the same services to the open-end funds offered for sale in
Canada,  Europe,  Asia,  and other  regions  internationally,  under similar fee
arrangements.

4.   ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

Generally,   the  funds   themselves  have  no  paid   employees.   Through  our
subsidiaries, including Franklin Templeton Services, LLC ("FTS"), we provide and
pay the  salaries of  personnel  who serve as  officers  of our  U.S.-registered
open-end and closed-end funds,  including the President and other administrative
personnel as necessary to conduct such funds'  day-to-day  business  operations.
These  personnel   provide   information,   ensure  compliance  with  securities
regulations,  maintain  accounting systems and controls,  prepare annual reports
and  perform  other  administrative  activities.  FTS is  compensated  under  an
agreement with certain funds on the basis of assets under management.

C.   HIGH NET-WORTH INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

Through  our  subsidiary,  Fiduciary  Trust,  and our  Canadian  high  net-worth
business unit, Bissett, we provide global investment  management services to and
market and sell our sponsored investment products to high net-worth  individuals
and families. At Fiduciary Trust, these services focus on managing family wealth
from generation to generation  through a full service package  including  wealth
management,  estate  planning,  private  funds,  private  banking,  and  custody
services.  Our high net-worth  client  business seeks to maintain  relationships
that   span   generations   and  help   families   plan  the  best   method   of
intergenerational wealth transfer.

Individual client assets are held in accounts  separately  managed by individual
portfolio  managers.  These portfolio  managers  determine asset  allocation and
stock selection for client  accounts,  taking into  consideration  each client's
specific  long-term  objectives while utilizing our macroeconomic and individual
stock research.

We offer  clients  personalized  attention and estate  planning  expertise in an
integrated package of services under the Family Resource  Management(R)  ("FRM")
brand.  Services  under FRM  provide  clients  with an  integrated  strategy  to
optimize wealth  accumulation and maximize after-tax wealth transfer to the next
generation.  These services  include advice  concerning  strategic  planning and
asset allocation, investment management, and custody and reporting.

D.   INSTITUTIONAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

We provide a broad array of  investment  management  services  to  institutional
clients,  focusing on foundations,  endowment funds and government and corporate
pension  funds.  Our  subsidiaries  offer  a wide  range  of both  domestic  and
international  equity,  fixed-income and specialty products through a variety of
investment  vehicles,  including separate and commingled accounts and open-ended
domestic and offshore mutual funds.

We  operate  our  institutional  business  through  a series  of legal  entities
globally,  including FTI. These entities  distribute,  and market our investment
advisory  capabilities  to  our  institutional   accounts  under  the  Franklin,
Templeton,  Mutual Series,  Bissett and Fiduciary Trust brand names globally. We
primarily  attract new institutional  business through our strong  relationships
with pension and management consultants and through additional mandates from our
existing client relationships.

The Retirement Group, a division of our U.S.  subsidiary FTDI, services sponsors
of defined contribution plans, including 401(k)'s,  bundled defined contribution
plans,  variable  annuity  products and  individual  retirement  accounts.  This
business  unit  allows us to focus on  expanding  sales of our asset  management
capabilities  to the  retirement  industry  by  offering a number of  investment
options, including sub-advised portfolios, mutual funds, education savings plans
and variable insurance trusts.


                                       12
<PAGE>

E.   MANAGED ACCOUNTS

Through our  subsidiaries,  Franklin  Private  Client Group,  Inc.  ("FPCG"),  a
registered  investment adviser,  and Templeton Private Client Group ("TPCG"),  a
division of TFIS, we provide private portfolio  management services and advisory
services through third party  broker/dealer  wrap fee programs.  Our subsidiary,
TFIS,  also  serves  as  a  direct  marketing  broker/dealer  for  institutional
investors  in  the  Franklin   Templeton  mutual  funds.   Through  our  various
subsidiaries, we also market and distribute our sponsored investment products to
individually managed and separate accounts.

F.   TRUST AND CUSTODY

Our subsidiary,  Fiduciary Trust,  provides trust and custody business including
global master custody and support  services to high net-worth and  institutional
clients. Through various trust company subsidiaries,  including Fiduciary Trust,
we offer a wide range of  investment-related  services,  including,  custody and
administration,  trust  services,  estate  planning,  tax  planning,  securities
brokerage,  trade clearance and private  banking to high net-worth  individuals,
families  and  institutional  clients in the U.S.  and  abroad.  In  addition to
custody  services,  we also offer clients a series of other services,  including
foreign  exchange,  performance  measurement,  securities  lending and brokerage
services. We provide planned giving administration for non-profit  organizations
and  related  custody  services,   including  pooled  income  funds,  charitable
remainder trusts, charitable lead trusts and gift annuities, for which we may or
may not act as trustee.

Our other subsidiaries involved in the trust business, either as trust companies
or  companies  investing  in  trust  companies,   include  Fiduciary  Investment
Corporation, an investment company incorporated under New York State Banking Law
and an  indirect  holding  company for many of the trust  company  subsidiaries;
Fiduciary Trust  International of the South, a Florida  state-chartered  limited
purpose trust company; Fiduciary Trust International of California, a California
state-chartered limited purpose trust company;  Fiduciary Trust International of
Delaware, a Delaware  state-chartered limited purpose trust company;  FTI-Banque
Fiduciary Trust, a Swiss bank based in Geneva, Switzerland;  FTCI (Cayman) Ltd.,
an offshore trust company  licensed as a bank and trust company (with a type "B"
license) in the Cayman  Islands;  and Franklin  Templeton  Bank & Trust,  F.S.B.
("FTB&T").  All of the trust companies  referenced above have full trust powers.
FTB&T,  among other things,  exercises full trust powers and serves primarily as
custodian of  Individual  Retirement  Accounts  ("IRA") and business  retirement
plans.

G.   SUMMARY OF OUR SPONSORED INVESTMENT PRODUCTS

Our sponsored  investment  products are offered to retail,  institutional,  high
net-worth and separate  account  clients,  which include  individual  investors,
qualified  groups,  trustees,  tax-deferred  (such as IRAs in the U.S., RSP's in
Canada) or money  purchase  plans,  employee  benefit and profit  sharing plans,
trust  companies,   bank  trust  departments  and  institutional   investors  in
approximately 137 countries.

1.   INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES

The  sponsored  investment  products  that we offer  accommodate  a  variety  of
investment goals, including growth, growth at a reasonable price, value, capital
appreciation,  growth and income,  income,  tax-free income and  preservation of
capital.  In seeking to  achieve  such  objectives,  each  portfolio  emphasizes
different investment securities.

Our equity investment products include some that are value-oriented, others that
reflect a growth style of investing  and some that use a  combination  of growth
and value. Value investing focuses on identifying companies,  which our research
analysts and portfolio  managers believe are  undervalued,  based on a number of
factors.  Portfolios that seek capital  appreciation  invest primarily in equity
securities in a wide variety of international and U.S. markets;  some seek broad
national  market  exposure,  while  others  focus on  narrower  sectors  such as
precious  metals,   health  care,  emerging  technology,   large-cap  companies,
small-cap  companies,  real estate  securities and utilities.  Growth  investing
relies on the review of  macroeconomic,  industry and sector  trends to identify
companies that exhibit superior growth potential  relative to industry peers and
the broad market. Unlike other management styles that focus on short-term market
trends,  our growth  portfolio  investment  management team invests in companies
demonstrating  long-term growth potential,  based mainly on proprietary in-house
analysis and research.


                                       13
<PAGE>

Portfolios seeking income generally focus on taxable and tax-exempt money market
instruments,   tax-exempt  municipal  bonds,  global  fixed-income   securities,
fixed-income debt securities of corporations and of the U.S.  government and its
sponsored  agencies  and  instrumentalities  such  as  the  Government  National
Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, and the Federal
Home Loan  Mortgage  Corporation,  and of the various  states in the U.S.  Still
others  focus on  investments  in  particular  countries  and  regions,  such as
emerging markets.

Again, we also provide investment management and related services to a number of
closed-end  investment  companies  whose shares are traded on various major U.S.
and some  international  stock  exchanges.  In addition,  we provide  investment
management,   marketing   and   distribution   services   to   SICAV   ("Societe
d'Investissement  a Capital  Variable") funds and umbrella unit trusts organized
in Luxembourg and Ireland, respectively,  which are distributed in international
market  places,  as well as to  locally  organized  funds in  various  countries
outside the U.S.

Our sponsored  investment  products also include  portfolios managed for some of
the world's largest corporations,  endowments,  charitable foundations,  pension
funds,  wealthy  individuals and other  institutions.  We use various investment
techniques  to  focus  on  specific  client  objectives  for  these  specialized
portfolios.

2.   TYPES OF SPONSORED INVESTMENT PRODUCTS

As of September 30, 2003 we had $301.9 billion in assets under  management.  Our
U.S.-registered  open-end mutual funds (excluding our insurance  products trust)
accounted for $175.5 billion of our assets under management. As of September 30,
2003,  the net  assets  under  management  of our five (5)  largest  funds  were
Franklin Income Fund ($16.1  billion),  Templeton  Growth Fund ($14.7  billion),
Franklin  California  Tax-Free  Income Fund,  Inc.  ($13.7  billion),  Templeton
Foreign Fund ($11.7 billion), and Franklin U.S. Government Securities Fund ($9.1
billion).  These 5 mutual  funds  represented,  in the  aggregate,  21.6% of our
assets  under  management.  Currently  no single  sponsored  investment  product
revenues represent more than 10% of total revenues.

Franklin  Templeton  Variable  Insurance  Products Trust, our insurance products
trust,  offers 22 funds,  with assets of $9.9 billion as of September  30, 2003.
The insurance product funds are available as investment options through variable
insurance  contracts.  Most of the funds have been  fashioned  after some of the
more popular funds offered to the general public and are managed, in most cases,
by the same investment adviser.

Our U.S.  closed-end  and  interval  (floating  rate) funds  accounted  for $4.5
billion of our assets under management.  U.S. wrap fee,  partnership,  and trust
accounts made up $6.3 billion of our assets under management.  On a Company-wide
basis,  institutional  separate and high net-worth  accounts accounted for $68.9
billion of assets under management.

In  addition,  $36.8  billion  of our  assets  under  management  were  held  in
foreign-based  funds and  open-end  and  closed-end  accounts  whose  investment
objectives vary, but are primarily international and global equity-oriented.

The  following  table shows the various  types of our  U.S.-registered  open-end
mutual funds and dedicated insurance product funds as of September 30, 2003, and
is categorized using the Investment Company Institute ("ICI") definitions, which
are more detailed than the broad investment  objective  definitions used in MD&A
and in our Consolidated Financial Statements.



                                       14
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                    U.S.-REGISTERED OPEN-END MUTUAL FUNDS (a)

                                                                                           NO. OF
             CATEGORY                                                            NO. OF   INSURANCE
  (AND APPROXIMATE ASSETS UNDER                                                  MUTUAL    PRODUCT
 MANAGEMENT, AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,    INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE                         FUNDS      FUNDS
              2003)

IN BILLIONS
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
<S>                                 <C>                                           <C>         <C>
I.  EQUITY FUNDS ($97.3)
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
A.   Capital Appreciation Funds     Seek capital appreciation; dividends are
        ($22.1)                     not a primary consideration.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. Aggressive Growth Funds     Invest primarily in common stocks of
                                    small, growth companies.                       5          2
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. Growth Funds                Invest primarily in common stocks of
                                    well-established companies.                    9          2
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     3. Sector Funds                Invest primarily in companies in related       8          2
                                    fields.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
B.   World Equity Funds             Invest primarily in stocks of foreign
        ($50.5)                     companies.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. Emerging Market Funds       Invest primarily in companies based in
                                    developing regions of the world.               2          1
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. Global Equity Funds         Invest primarily in equity securities
                                    traded worldwide, including those of U.S.     13          2
                                    companies.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     3. International Equity Funds  Invest primarily in equity securities of
                                    companies located outside the United           6          1
                                    States.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     4. Regional Equity Funds       Invest in companies based in a specific
                                    part of the world.                             3          0
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
C.   Total Return Funds ($24.7)     Seek a combination of current income and
                                    capital appreciation.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. Growth and Income Funds     Invest primarily in common stocks of
                                    established companies with the potential
                                    for growth and a consistent record of          8          3
                                    dividend payments.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
II.  HYBRID/BALANCED FUNDS          May invest in a mix of equities, fixed-income
        ($17.5)                     securities, and derivative instruments.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
A.   Asset Allocation Funds ($0.5)  Invest in various asset classes
                                    including, but not limited to, equities,
                                    fixed-income securities, and money market
                                    instruments.  They seek high total return
                                    by maintaining precise weightings in           5          1
                                    asset classes.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
B.   Income-Mixed Funds ($17.0)     Invest in a variety of income-producing
                                    securities, including equities and
                                    fixed-income securities.  These funds
                                    seek a high level of current income
                                    without regard to capital appreciation.        1          1
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
III. TAXABLE BOND FUNDS ($16.4)
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
A.   High Yield Funds ($3.0)        Invest two-thirds or more of their
                                    portfolios in lower-rated U.S. corporate
                                    bonds (Baa or lower by Moody's and BBB or
                                    lower by Standard & Poor's rating              2          1
                                    services).
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------

(a)  This table excludes separately managed accounts, trust and partnership accounts and closed-end
     funds. A significant number of institutional assets are invested in U.S. open-end mutual funds
     and are disclosed in the table.

</TABLE>


                                       15
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                           NO. OF
             CATEGORY                                                            NO. OF   INSURANCE
  (AND APPROXIMATE ASSETS UNDER                                                  MUTUAL    PRODUCT
 MANAGEMENT, AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,    INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE                         FUNDS      FUNDS
              2003)

IN BILLIONS
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
<S>                                 <C>                                            <C>        <C>
B.   World Bond Funds ($1.0)        Invest in debt securities offered by foreign
                                    companies and governments. They seek the
                                    highest level of current income available
                                    worldwide.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. Global Bonds Funds:         Invest in debt securities worldwide with no
          General                   stated average maturity or an average
                                    maturity of five years or more.  These
                                    funds may invest up to 25 percent of
                                    assets in companies located in the United      1          2
                                    States.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. Global Bond Funds:          Invest in debt securities worldwide with
          Short Term                an average maturity of one to five years.
                                    These funds may invest up to 25 percent
                                    of assets in companies located in the          1          0
                                    United States.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     3. Other World Bond Funds      Invest in international bond and emerging
                                    market debt funds, foreign government and
                                    corporate debt instruments.  Two-thirds
                                    of an international bonds fund's
                                    portfolio must be invested outside the
                                    United States.  Emerging market debt
                                    funds invest primarily in debt from            1          0
                                    underdeveloped regions of the world.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
C.   Government Bond Funds          Invest in U.S. government bonds of varying
        ($11.1)                     maturities. They seek high current income.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. Government Bond Funds:      Invest two-thirds or more of their
          Intermediate Term         portfolios in U.S. government securities
                                    with an average maturity of five to ten
                                    years.  Securities utilized by investment
                                    managers may change with market                0          1
                                    conditions.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. Government Bond Funds:      Invest two-thirds or more of their
          Short Term                portfolios in U.S. government securities
                                    with an average maturity of one to five
                                    years. Securities utilized by investment
                                    managers may change with market                1          0
                                    conditions.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     3. Mortgage-Backed Funds       Invest two-thirds or more of their
                                    portfolios in pooled mortgage-backed           3          0
                                    securities.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
D.  Strategic Income Funds ($1.1)   Invest in a combination of U.S.
                                    fixed-income securities to provide a high
                                    level of current income.                       4          2
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
E.  Corporate Bond Funds ($0.2)     Seek current income by investing in high-
                                    quality debt securities issued by U.S.
                                    corporations.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. Corporate Bond Funds:       Invest two-thirds or more of their portfolios
          Short Term                in U.S. corporate bonds with an average
                                    maturity of one to five years.  These funds
                                    seek a high level of income with less price    1          0
                                    volatility than intermediate-term bond funds.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
</TABLE>


                                       16
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                           NO. OF
             CATEGORY                                                            NO. OF   INSURANCE
  (AND APPROXIMATE ASSETS UNDER                                                  MUTUAL    PRODUCT
 MANAGEMENT, AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,    INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE                         FUNDS      FUNDS
              2003)

IN BILLIONS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
IV. TAX-FREE BOND FUNDS  ($49.9)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
<S>                                 <C>                                           <C>         <C>
A.   State Municipal Bond           Invest primarily in municipal bonds
        Funds ($35.0)               issued by a particular state. These
                                    funds seek high after-tax income for
                                    residents of individual states.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. State Municipal Bond        Invest primarily in the single-state
        Funds:                      municipal bonds with an average maturity
          General                   of greater than five years or no specific
                                    stated maturity.  The income from these
                                    funds is largely exempt from federal as
                                    well as state income tax for residents of     29          0
                                    the state.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. State Municipal Bond        Invest primarily in single-state municipal
        Funds:                      bonds with an average maturity of one to
          Short Term                five years.  The income from these funds is
                                    largely exempt from federal as well as state   2          0
                                    income tax for residents of the state.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
B.   National Municipal Bond        Invest primarily in the bonds of various
        Funds ($14.9)               municipal issuers in the United States.
                                    These funds seek high current income free
                                    from federal income tax.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. National Municipal Bond     Invest primarily in municipal bonds with
        Funds:                      an average maturity of more than five
          General                   years or no specific stated maturity.          4          0
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. National Municipal Bond     Invest primarily in municipal bonds with
        Funds:                      an average maturity of one to five years.
          Short Term                                                               1          0
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
V.  MONEY MARKET FUNDS  ($4.3)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
A.   Taxable Money Market           Invest in short-term, high-grade money
        Funds ($3.4)                market securities and must have average
                                    maturities of 90 days or less. These funds
                                    seek the highest level of income consistent
                                    with preservation of capital (i.e.,
                                    maintaining a stable share price).
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     1. Taxable Money Market        Invest primarily in U.S. Treasury
        Funds:                      obligations and other financial
          Government                instruments issued or guaranteed by the
                                    U.S. government, its agencies, or its          2          0
                                    instrumentalities.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. Taxable Money Market        Invest primarily in a variety of money
        Funds:                      market instruments, including
          Non-Government            certificates of deposit from larger
                                    banks, commercial paper, and bankers'          5          1
                                    acceptances.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
B.    Tax-Exempt Money Market       Invest in short-term municipal securities
      Funds ($0.9)                  and must have average maturities of 90
                                    days or less. These funds seek the highest
                                    level of income - free from federal and, in
                                    some cases, state and local taxes -
                                    consistent with preservation of capital.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
</TABLE>


                                       17
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                           NO. OF
             CATEGORY                                                            NO. OF   INSURANCE
  (AND APPROXIMATE ASSETS UNDER                                                  MUTUAL    PRODUCT
 MANAGEMENT, AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,    INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE                         FUNDS      FUNDS
              2003)

IN BILLIONS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
<S>                                 <C>                                           <C>         <C>
     1. National Tax-Exempt         Invest in short-term securities of various
          Money Market Funds        U.S. municipal issuers.                        1          0
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------
     2. State Tax-Exempt            Invest primarily in short-term securities
          Money Market Funds        of municipal issuers in a single state to
                                    achieve the highest level of tax-free
                                    income for residents of that state.            2          0
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ----------

The following  table sets forth the types of our non-U.S. open-end mutual funds as of September 30,
2003 and is categorized  by investment  objectives and sales region.
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                       NON-U.S. OPEN-END MUTUAL FUNDS (A)

                                                                                      NO. OF
             CATEGORY                                                                 MUTUAL
  (AND APPROXIMATE ASSETS UNDER                                                   FUNDS BY SALES
 MANAGEMENT, AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,    INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE                              REGION
              2003)

IN BILLIONS
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
<S>                                 <C>                                         <C>
I.  EQUITY FUNDS ($19.8)

----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
A.   Global/International Equity    Invest in securities of companies traded    Asia Pacific:    34
        ($18.5)                     worldwide, including foreign and U.S.       Canada:          18
                                    companies.                                  U.K./Europe:     27
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
B.   Domestic (U.S.) Equity ($1.3)  Invest in equity securities of U.S.         Canada:           5
                                    companies.                                  U.K./Europe:     11
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
II. FIXED-INCOME FUNDS ($10.2)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
A.   Global/International           Invest worldwide in debt securities         Asia Pacific:    30
      Fixed-Income ($3.4)           offered by foreign companies and            Canada:           4
                                    governments. These funds may invest         U.K./Europe:      7
                                    assets in debt securities offered by
                                    companies located in the U.S.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
B.   Domestic Fixed-Income ($6.8)   Invest in debt securities offered by U.S.   Asia Pacific:    1
                                    companies and the U.S. government and/or    U.K./Europe:     5
                                    municipalities located in the U.S.
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
III. HYBRID/BALANCED                May invest in a mix of global equity,       Asia Pacific:   21
        FUNDS ($1.2)                fixed-income securities and derivative      Canada:          5
                                    instruments.                                U.K./Europe:     4
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------------- ----
IV. TAXABLE MONEY                   Market securities issued or guaranteed by   Asia Pacific:    7
        FUNDS ($1.5)                domestic or global governments or           Canada:          3
                                    agencies.                                   U.K./Europe:     2
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------------- ----

(a) Does not include the Franklin Templeton Global Fund, the Fiduciary Emerging Markets Bond Fund plc,
    nor fund-of-fund mutual funds. For purposes of this table, we consider the sales region to be where
    a fund is based and primarily sold and not necessarily the region where a particular fund is invested.
    Many funds are also distributed across different sales regions (e.g., SICAV funds are based,
    primarily sold in and therefore considered to be within the U.K./Europe sales region, although
    also distributed in the Asia Pacific sales region), but are only designated a single sales region
    in the table.
</TABLE>

3.   FUND INTRODUCTIONS, MERGERS AND LIQUIDATIONS

In an effort to address changing market  conditions and evolving investor needs,
from time to time we  introduce  new funds,  merge  existing  funds or liquidate
existing  funds.  During the fiscal year ended  September 30, 2003, we added and
introduced   a  number  of  funds  in  the  U.S.,   Canada  and  other   regions
internationally.



                                       18
<PAGE>

In the U.S.,  we expanded  our product  line,  recognizing  shifts in market and
investor sentiment. We added three new limited term tax-free products, providing
investors with additional fund options to tailor their fixed income  portfolios.
We introduced two new fund-of-fund mutual funds, providing investors with equity
performing portfolios consisting of many of our core funds. We also expanded our
efforts in the U.S.  education  savings market and were awarded New Jersey's 529
mandate for marketing and managing  investments through NJ-BEST and the Franklin
Templeton 529 College  Savings  Plan. We also made  available an array of mutual
funds  and  alternative  investment  products  to  our  institutional  and  high
net-worth clients.

In Canada, we introduced a portfolio of funds that provided our Canadian clients
with  diversified   investment  choices.  We  also  introduced  Tapestry  Pooled
Portfolios,  a program of eleven actively managed pooled  portfolios  offering a
blend of investment styles and asset classes, including alternative investments.
Additionally,  we added a new  diversified  income  portfolio to the  Quotential
Program, a growing dealer-distributed wrap program in Canada.

In other regions internationally,  we launched new funds and investment products
that   addressed   the   unique   needs   of   local   markets.    Through   our
Luxembourg-domiciled  SICAV,  seven new funds were introduced.  In other country
specific markets,  including the United Kingdom,  Korea, Singapore and India, we
initiated new local products to support expansion in these regions.

During the fiscal year ended  September 30, 2003, the following fund mergers and
liquidations  occurred:  1 variable  annuity fund merged into  another  variable
annuity fund and 1 variable annuity fund was liquidated;  5 U.S. registered open
end mutual funds were merged into other U.S. registered open end mutual funds; 7
non-U.S.  registered  open end mutual  funds  were  merged  into other  non-U.S.
registered open end mutual funds and 5 non-U.S. registered open end mutual funds
were liquidated; 4 Dublin-domiciled  Fiduciary Trust funds were liquidated and 4
merged into U.K products.

II.  BANKING/FINANCE OPERATIONS

Our  secondary  business  segment  is   banking/finance,   which  offers  select
retail-banking and consumer lending services.

Our subsidiary, Fiduciary Trust, is a New York state chartered bank and provides
private banking services primarily to high net-worth clients who maintain trust,
custody and/or investment  management  accounts with Fiduciary Trust.  Fiduciary
Trust's private banking and credit products include, among others, loans secured
by marketable securities,  foreign exchange services, deposit accounts and other
banking  services.  As discussed in Investment  Management and Related Services,
Fiduciary Trust also offers investment management, trust and estate, custody and
related  services to institutional  accounts and high net-worth  individuals and
families.

Franklin  Capital  Corporation  ("FCC") is a subsidiary  of FRI,  which  engages
primarily in the purchase,  securitization  and servicing of retail  installment
sales contracts  ("automobile  contracts")  originated by independent automobile
dealerships.  FCC is  incorporated  and  headquartered  in Utah and conducts its
business  primarily in the Western  region of the U.S. As of September 30, 2003,
FCC's total assets included $130.0 million of outstanding  automobile contracts.
During fiscal 2003, FCC securitized  approximately  $446.7 million of automobile
contract  receivables for which it maintains  servicing  rights. As of September
30, 2003, FCC serviced $680.7 million of receivables  that have been securitized
to date. See Note 7 in the Notes to the Financial Statements.

Our  securitized   automobile  contracts  business  is  subject  to  marketplace
fluctuation and competes with businesses with  significantly  larger portfolios.
Auto loan  portfolio  losses can be  influenced  significantly  by trends in the
economy and credit markets,  which reduce  borrowers'  ability to repay loans. A
more  detailed  analysis of loan losses and  delinquency  rates in our  consumer
lending and dealer auto loan business is contained in Note 6 in the Notes to the
Financial Statements.

Our subsidiary  Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust,  F.S.B.  ("FTB&T"),  with total
assets of $174.4  million,  as of  September  30,  2003,  provides  FDIC insured
deposit  accounts and general  consumer loan products such as credit card loans,
unsecured loans, loans secured by marketable  securities,  mortgage loans, debit
card products and auto loans.  FTB&T  (formerly  known as Franklin  Bank) became
chartered  as a federal  savings  bank on May 1, 2000 when the  Office of Thrift
Supervision  approved  FTB&T's  application  to convert from a California  state
banking  charter  to  a  federal  thrift  charter.   Immediately  following  the
conversion  of FTB&T's  state  charter


                                       19
<PAGE>

to a federal thrift  charter,  Franklin  Templeton  Trust Company,  a California
chartered  trust  company,  was merged into FTB&T and  continues  to perform its
prior activities as a division of FTB&T.

Our other banking subsidiaries include, FTI-Banque Fiduciary Trust, a Swiss bank
based in Geneva,  Switzerland,  which provides an array of private banking trust
and investment  services to clients outside of the U.S., and FTCI (Cayman) Ltd.,
a licensed bank and trust company in the Cayman Islands.

REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS

Virtually all aspects of our business,  including  those  conducted  through our
various  subsidiaries,  are  subject  to various  federal,  state,  and  foreign
regulation,  and  supervision.  Domestically,  we are subject to regulation  and
supervision  by, among others,  the SEC, the National  Association of Securities
Dealers  ("NASD"),  the Federal  Reserve Board (the "FRB"),  the Federal Deposit
Insurance  Corporation  ("FDIC"),  the Office of Thrift  Supervision and the New
York State  Banking  Department.  Globally,  we are  subject to  regulation  and
supervision by, among others, the Ontario and Alberta Securities  Commissions in
Canada, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Financial Services Authority in
the United  Kingdom,  the Central Bank of Ireland,  the  Securities  and Futures
Commission  of Hong Kong,  the Korean  Ministry  of Finance  and Economy and the
Financial Supervisory  Commission in Korea, and the Securities Exchange Board of
India. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on our subsidiaries,  which
are registered in the U.S. as investment  advisers,  including  record  keeping,
operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on
fraudulent activities. The `40 Act imposes similar obligations on the investment
companies  that  are  advised  by our  subsidiaries.  The SEC is  authorized  to
institute  proceedings  AND impose  sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act
and the `40 Act,  ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment
adviser's registration.

As part of various ongoing  investigations by the SEC, the U.S. Attorney for the
Northern  District  of  California,  the  U.S.  Attorney  for  the  District  of
Massachusetts,  the New York  Attorney  General  and the  Secretary  of State of
Massachusetts  relating  to  certain  practices  in the  mutual  fund  industry,
including late trading, market timing and sales compensation  arrangements,  the
Company and its subsidiaries (as used in this section, together, the "Company"),
as well as certain  current or former  executives  and employees of the Company,
have received  requests for information  and/or  subpoenas to testify or produce
documents.  The Company and, where  applicable,  the relevant  individuals,  are
providing documents and information in response to these requests and subpoenas.
In  addition,  the  Company is  responding  to  requests  for  similar  kinds of
information from regulatory  authorities in some of the foreign  countries where
the Company conducts its global asset management  business.  See also Note 13 in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

FRI and many of the investment companies advised by our various subsidiaries are
also  subject to the  federal  and state laws  affecting  corporate  governance,
including the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002, as well as rules adopted by the SEC.
As a New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") listed company, we are also subject to the
rules of the  NYSE,  including  the  corporate  governance  standards  that were
recently approved by the SEC.

Since 1993,  the NASD Conduct  Rules have limited the amount of aggregate  sales
charges  which  may be paid in  connection  with the  purchase  and  holding  of
investment company shares sold through brokers.  The effect of the rule might be
to limit the amount of fees that could be paid  pursuant to a fund's  12b-1 Plan
to FTDI, our principal  underwriting  and distribution  subsidiary,  which earns
underwriting  commissions  on the  distribution  of fund shares in the U.S. Such
limitations  would  apply in a situation  where a fund has no, or  limited,  new
sales for a prolonged  period of time.  None of the  Franklin  Templeton  mutual
funds are in, or close to, that situation at the present time.

Following the acquisition of Fiduciary Trust, in fiscal 2001, the Company became
a bank  holding  company  under the BHC Act and is  subject to  supervision  and
regulation  by the FRB.  Pursuant to the GLB Act, as a  qualifying  bank holding
company,  we also  became a  financial  holding  company,  which  enables  us to
affiliate  with a far broader range of financial  companies  than had previously
been  permitted  for  bank  holding  companies.   Permitted  affiliates  include
securities brokers,  underwriters and dealers,  investment managers, mutual fund
distributors, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that
are  "financial  in  nature  or  incidental  thereto"  or  "complementary"  to a
financial activity. The FRB has issued interim rules specifying that organizing,
sponsoring,  and managing a mutual fund are activities  that are permissible for
financial holding companies under certain guidelines. A bank holding company may
elect to become a

                                       20
<PAGE>
financial  holding company if, as in our case, each of its subsidiary  banks and
other depository institution  subsidiaries is well capitalized,  is well managed
(with the  exception  of  Fiduciary  Trust,  which is exempt from the  Community
Reinvestment  Act  ("CRA")) and has at least a  "satisfactory"  rating under the
CRA.

The FRB may impose limitations,  restrictions, or prohibitions on the activities
or  acquisitions  of a financial  holding  company if the FRB believes  that the
Company does not have the  appropriate  financial  and  managerial  resources to
commence or conduct an activity,  make an acquisition,  or retain ownership of a
company.  The  GLB  Act  establishes  the  FRB as the  umbrella  supervisor  for
financial holding companies and adopts an administrative  approach to regulation
that generally  requires the FRB to defer to the actions and requirements of the
U.S. "functional" regulators of subsidiary broker/dealers,  investment advisers,
investment companies,  insurance companies,  and other regulated  non-depository
institutions.

FRB policy provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company
generally  should not pay dividends unless its net income is sufficient to fully
fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings  retention appears to be
consistent with the capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition
of the holding company and its bank and thrift institution  subsidiaries.  As we
are a bank holding company,  this policy may be applied to us even though we are
also a financial holding company.

Almost every aspect of the operations and financial condition of our banking and
thrift  subsidiaries are subject to extensive  regulation and supervision and to
various  requirements  and restrictions  under federal and state law,  including
requirements  governing  capital  adequacy,  management  practices,   liquidity,
branching, earnings, loans, dividends,  investments,  reserves against deposits,
and the provision of services.  Under federal law, a depository  institution  is
prohibited from paying a dividend if the depository institution would thereafter
be "undercapitalized" as determined by the federal bank regulatory agencies. The
relevant federal banking regulatory  agencies,  and the state banking regulatory
agencies,  also have authority to prohibit a bank or a bank holding company from
engaging in what, in the opinion of the regulatory  body,  constitutes an unsafe
or unsound practice.

Each of our banking  subsidiaries is subject to  restrictions  under federal law
that limit transactions with FRI and its non-bank subsidiaries,  including loans
and other  extensions  of  credit,  investments  or asset  purchases.  These and
various  other  transactions,  including  any  payment  of  money to FRI and its
non-bank  subsidiaries,  must be on terms and  conditions  that are,  or in good
faith  would  be,  offered  to  companies  that are not  affiliated  with  these
companies.

Federal banking agencies are required to take prompt  supervisory and regulatory
actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards.
There  are  five  defined   capital  tiers,   the  highest  of  which  is  "well
capitalized".  A  depository  institution  is generally  prohibited  from making
capital distributions,  including paying dividends, or paying management fees to
a holding  company if the  institution  would  thereafter  be  undercapitalized.
Undercapitalized  institutions  may not  accept,  renew  or roll  over  brokered
deposits.  To  remain  a  financial  holding  company,  each  company's  banking
subsidiaries  must be well  capitalized  and well  managed.  As of September 30,
2003,  our  bank  and  thrift  subsidiaries  continued  to be  considered  "well
capitalized" and "well managed".  If a banking subsidiary of a financial holding
company has not received a rating of at least  "satisfactory" on its most recent
CRA  examination,  the FRB may prohibit  the  financial  holding  company or its
banking subsidiary from engaging in additional financial activities.

The FRB has adopted various capital guidelines for bank holding  companies.  The
GLB Act authorizes the FRB to establish  consolidated  capital  requirements for
financial  holding  companies.  The GLB Act  generally  prohibits  the FRB  from
imposing capital requirements on functionally regulated non-bank subsidiaries of
a financial holding company, such as broker/dealers and investment advisers. The
FRB has not published  consolidated capital  requirements  specific to financial
holding companies, but may do so in the future.

The federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers,  including the power
to terminate  deposit  insurance,  impose  substantial fines and other civil and
criminal penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with
applicable laws,  regulations and supervisory  agreements could subject FRI, our
thrift  and  banking  subsidiaries,  as well as  officers,  directors  and other
so-called   "institution-affiliated   parties"   of  these   organizations,   to
administrative  sanctions and potentially  substantial civil money penalties. In
addition,  the  appropriate  federal  banking  agency  may  appoint  the FDIC as
conservator  or  receiver  for a banking  institution,  or the FDIC may  appoint
itself if any one or more of a number of circumstances exist.

                                       21
<PAGE>
COMPETITION

The  financial  services  industry is highly  competitive  and has  increasingly
become a global  industry.  There are  approximately  8,200 open-end  investment
companies of varying sizes,  investment policies and objectives whose shares are
being  offered to the public in the U.S. Due to our  international  presence and
varied  product mix, it is difficult to assess our market  position  relative to
other  investment  managers on a worldwide basis, but we believe that we are one
of the more widely diversified  investment  managers in the U.S. We believe that
our equity and  fixed-income  asset mix coupled  with our global  presence  will
serve our competitive needs well over the long term. We continue to focus on the
performance  of our  investment  products,  service to customers  and  extensive
marketing   activities  with  our  strong   broker/dealer  and  other  financial
institution distribution network as well as high net-worth customers.

We face strong competition from numerous investment management,  stock brokerage
and  investment  banking firms,  insurance  companies,  banks,  savings and loan
associations  and other  financial  institutions,  which  offer a wide  range of
financial and investment management services to the same institutional accounts,
separate  accounts and high net-worth  customers that we are seeking to attract.
In  recent  years,  there  has been a trend of  consolidation  in the  financial
services  industry,  resulting in stronger  competitors  with greater  financial
resources than us.

We rely largely on  intermediaries  to sell and  distribute  Franklin  Templeton
mutual  fund  shares.  In  addition  to  offering  our  products,  many of these
intermediaries  also have  mutual  funds  under  their own  names  that  compete
directly  with our  products.  These  intermediaries  could  decide  to limit or
restrict  the sale of our fund  shares,  which could lower our future  sales and
cause  our   revenues  to  decline.   We  have  and  continue  to  pursue  sales
relationships  with all types of  intermediaries  to  broaden  our  distribution
network.  We  have  experienced  increased  costs  related  to  maintaining  our
distribution channels and we anticipate that this trend will continue.

We have  implemented  an award  winning  Internet  platform to compete  with the
rapidly developing and evolving capabilities being offered with this technology.
Together  with several large  financial  services  companies,  we made a capital
investment in the  development of an  industry-wide  Internet  portal,  known as
Advisorcentral.com,  which provides our broker,  dealer and  investment  adviser
customers with the ability to view their clients' holdings using one log-in ID.

As investor interest in the mutual fund industry has increased, competitive
pressures have increased on sales charges of broker/dealer distributed funds. We
believe that,  although this trend will continue,  a significant  portion of the
investing public still relies on the services of the  broker/dealer or financial
adviser community, particularly during weaker market conditions.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing  trends
as a result of our  already  extensive  advertising  activities  and broad based
marketplace  recognition.  We conduct  significant  advertising  and promotional
campaigns  through  various  media  sources to  promote  brand  recognition.  We
advertise  in major  national  financial  publications,  as well as on radio and
television  to promote  brand name  recognition  and to assist our  distribution
network.  Such  activities  include  purchasing  network and cable  programming,
sponsorship   of  sporting   events,   and  extensive   newspaper  and  magazine
advertising.

Diverse  and  strong  competition  affects  the  banking/finance  segment of our
business as well, and limits the fees that can be charged for our services.  For
example,  in the banking segment we compete with many types of institutions  for
consumer  loans,   including  the  finance   subsidiaries  of  large  automobile
manufacturers,  which have offered  special  incentives to stimulate  automobile
sales,  including  no-interest loans. These product offerings by our competitors
limit the interest rates that we can charge on consumer loans.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Information  on our  operations in various  geographic  areas of the world and a
breakout of business segment information is contained in Note 18 in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We have used,  registered,  and/or  applied to register  certain  trademarks and
service marks to distinguish our sponsored investment products and services from
those of our competitors in the U.S. and in foreign countries

                                       22
<PAGE>
and jurisdictions,  including,  but not limited to,  Franklin(R),  Templeton(R),
Bissett(R), Mutual Series(R), and FiduciaryTM. We enforce our trademark, service
mark and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad.


EMPLOYEES

As of September 30, 2003, we employed approximately 6,500 employees and operated
offices in 28  countries.  We consider our  relations  with our  employees to be
satisfactory.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Franklin  Resources,  Inc.  files  reports with the SEC.  Copies of any of these
filings  can be  obtained  from the  SEC's  Public  Reference  Room at 450 Fifth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

We also file  reports  with the SEC  electronically  via the  Internet.  The SEC
maintains  an  Internet  site  that  contains  reports,  proxy  and  information
statements, and other information regarding issuers who file electronically with
the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov. Additional information about Franklin Resources,
Inc. can also be obtained at our website at http://www.franklintempleton.com. We
make  available  free of charge on our website  our annual  report on Form 10-K,
quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q,  current  reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those  reports  filed  or  furnished  pursuant  to  Section  13 or  15(d) of the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 as soon as  reasonably  practicable  after  we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE  GUIDELINES.  The Company has adopted Corporate Governance
Guidelines.  The  Corporate  Governance  Guidelines  are posted on the Company's
website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy.

COMMITTEE CHARTERS. The Board of Directors has an Audit Committee,  Compensation
Committee and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors has adopted
written charters for each committee,  which are posted on the Company's  website
and are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following  information  on the executive  officers of FRI,  including  their
principal  occupations  for the past five (5) years,  is given as of December 1,
2003.

PENELOPE S. ALEXANDER
AGE 43

Vice President,  Human Resources - U.S. of FRI since May 2003;  officer of other
FRI  subsidiaries;  employed  by  FRI  or  its  subsidiaries  in  various  other
capacities for more than the past five (5) years.

JAMES R. BAIO
AGE 49

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of FRI since May 2003; officer
of other FRI subsidiaries;  employed by FRI or its subsidiaries in various other
capacities for more than the past five (5) years.

JENNIFER J. BOLT
AGE 39

Senior  Vice  President  and Chief  Information  Officer  of FRI since May 2003;
officer and/or director of other FRI subsidiaries  since June 1994;  employed by
FRI or its  subsidiaries in various other capacities for more than the past five
(5) years.



                                       23
<PAGE>

HARMON E. BURNS
AGE 58
DIRECTOR SINCE 1991

Vice  Chairman  and  Director of FRI;  formerly  Executive  Vice  President  and
director  of FRI for more than the past five (5)  years;  Member - Office of the
Chairman of FRI; officer and/or director of many other FRI subsidiaries; officer
and/or  director or trustee in 49  investment  companies  of Franklin  Templeton
Investments.

MARTIN L. FLANAGAN
AGE 43

President of FRI; formerly Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for
more than the past five (5) years;  officer  and/or  director  of many other FRI
subsidiaries;  officer,  director  and/or trustee in 49 investment  companies of
Franklin  Templeton  Investments.  Mr.  Flanagan has been  appointed to serve as
Co-Chief Executive Officer of FRI effective January 1, 2004.

HOLLY E. GIBSON
AGE 37

Vice President - Corporate  Communications of FRI since May 2003 and Director of
Corporate Communications for the past five (5) years.

BARBARA J. GREEN
AGE 56

Vice  President  and  Deputy  General  Counsel  of FRI  since  January  2000 and
Secretary of FRI since  October  2003;  officer of many other FRI  subsidiaries;
officer in 52 investment companies of Franklin Templeton Investments.

DONNA S. IKEDA
AGE 47

Vice  President,  Human  Resources -  International  of FRI since May,  2003 and
formerly Vice President - Human Resources of FRI for more than the past five (5)
years.

CHARLES B. JOHNSON
AGE 70
DIRECTOR SINCE 1969

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and director of FRI for more than
the past five (5) years;  Member - Office of the Chairman of FRI; officer and/or
director of many other FRI  subsidiaries;  officer and/or director or trustee in
46 investment companies of Franklin Templeton Investments.  Effective January 1,
2004, Mr. C. B. Johnson will no longer serve as Chief Executive  Officer of FRI,
but will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board and a director of FRI.

GREGORY E. JOHNSON
AGE 42

President of FRI; formerly Vice President of FRI for more than the past five (5)
years; officer of many other FRI subsidiaries and in two investment companies of
Franklin  Templeton  Investments.  Mr. G. Johnson has been appointed to serve as
Co-Chief Executive Officer of FRI effective January 1, 2004.

RUPERT H. JOHNSON, JR.
AGE 63
DIRECTOR SINCE 1969

Vice Chairman of FRI; formerly  Executive Vice President and director of FRI for
more  than the past five (5)  years;  Member - Office  of the  Chairman  of FRI;
officer and/or director of many other FRI subsidiaries;  officer and/or director
or trustee in 49 investment companies of Franklin Templeton Investments.


                                       24
<PAGE>

LESLIE M. KRATTER
AGE 58

Senior Vice President (since 2000) and Assistant  Secretary (since 2003) of FRI;
formerly  Secretary  from March 1998 to October  2003 and Vice  President of FRI
since March 1993.

KENNETH A. LEWIS
AGE 42

Vice  President  and  Treasurer of FRI since June 2002 and officer of many other
FRI subsidiaries for the past five (5) years.

MURRAY L. SIMPSON
AGE 66

Executive Vice President and General Counsel of FRI since January 2000;  officer
in  51  investment  companies  of  Franklin  Templeton  Investments.  Previously
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Templeton  Investments
(Asia)  Limited  (formerly,   Templeton  Franklin  Investment  Services  (Asia),
Limited) from 1994-2000.

CHARLES R. SIMS
AGE 42

Vice  President of FRI and officer of many other FRI  subsidiaries  for the past
five (5) years.

ANNE M. TATLOCK
AGE 64

Vice Chairman,  Member - Office of the Chairman and director of FRI; Chairman of
the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer  (since  2000),  and Director of Fiduciary
Trust, a subsidiary of FRI; formerly  President of Fiduciary Trust for more than
the past five (5) years;  officer and/or director of certain other  subsidiaries
of FRI. Director, Fortune Brands, Inc. and Merck & Co., Inc.

FAMILY  RELATIONS.  Charles B. Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr. are brothers.
Peter M. Sacerdote, a director of FRI, is a brother-in-law of Charles B. Johnson
and Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.  Gregory E. Johnson is the son of Charles B. Johnson,
the nephew of Rupert H.  Johnson,  Jr. and Peter  Sacerdote  and the  brother of
Jennifer Bolt. Jennifer Bolt is the daughter of Charles B. Johnson, the niece of
Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote and the sister of Gregory E. Johnson.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We conduct our  worldwide  operations  using a  combination  of leased and owned
facilities.  While we believe we have sufficient  facilities to conduct business
during fiscal 2004, we will continue to lease, acquire and dispose of facilities
throughout the world as necessary.

We lease space  domestically  primarily in  California,  Connecticut,  Delaware,
Florida,  Michigan,  New Jersey, New York, Utah,  Washington and the District of
Columbia,  and  internationally  in  various  locations,   including  Australia,
Belgium,  Brazil, Canada, China, England,  France, Germany,  Holland, Hong Kong,
India,  Ireland,  Italy, Japan, Korea,  Luxembourg,  Poland,  Russia,  Scotland,
Singapore,  South Africa,  Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland,  Taiwan,  Turkey and the
United  Arab  Emirates.  As of  September  30,  2003,  we  leased  and  occupied
approximately 865,000 square feet of space. We have also leased and subsequently
subleased to third parties a total of 297,000 square feet of space.

In addition, we own 6 buildings near Sacramento,  California, 5 buildings in St.
Petersburg,  Florida,  2 buildings in Nassau,  Bahamas, 5 buildings in India, as
well as  space in  office  buildings  in  Argentina,  China  and  Singapore.  In
addition,  we operate 4 buildings  in San Mateo,  California  under an operating
lease with a related lessor trust. The buildings we own consist of approximately
1.67 million  square feet.  We have  subleased  to third  parties  approximately
104,000 square feet of excess owned space.  Since we operate on a unified basis,
corporate activities,  fund related activities,  accounting  operations,  sales,
real estate and  retail-banking  and  consumer  lending  operations,  management
information system activities,  publishing and printing operations,


                                       25
<PAGE>

shareholder service operations and other business activities and operations take
place in a variety of such locations.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In October and November,  2003, three lawsuits were brought against subsidiaries
of the Company  alleging  breach of fiduciary duty with respect to the valuation
of the portfolio  securities  of certain  Franklin  Templeton  funds and seeking
monetary  damages and costs.  BRADFISCH v. TEMPLETON  FUNDS,  INC. AND TEMPLETON
GLOBAL ADVISORS LIMITED, Case 2003 L 001361, was filed on October 3, 2003 in the
Circuit Court for the Third Judicial  Circuit,  Madison  County,  Illinois,  and
relates to the  Templeton  World Fund.  WOODBURY  v.  TEMPLETON  GLOBAL  SMALLER
COMPANIES FUND, INC. AND TEMPLETON INVESTMENT COUNSEL,  LLC, Case 2003 L 001362,
was filed on  October  3,  2003 in the  Circuit  Court  for the  Third  Judicial
Circuit,  Madison County,  Illinois, and relates to the Templeton Global Smaller
Companies Fund, Inc. Both cases were removed to the United States District Court
for the Southern  District of Illinois on November 14,  2003.  The  complaint in
KENERLEY v. TEMPLETON FUNDS, INC.  AND TEMPLETON GLOBAL ADVISORS  LIMITED,  Case
No. 03-770 GPM, was filed in the United States  District  Court for the Southern
District of Illinois and served on the  defendants  on November  25, 2003.  This
lawsuit  relates to the  Templeton  World Fund and alleges  breach of  fiduciary
duties  imposed  by  Section  36(a) of the  Investment  Company  Act of 1940 and
pendant state law claims.

Management  strongly believes that the claims made in each of these lawsuits are
without merit and intends vigorously to defend against them.

Except for the matters described above, there have been no material developments
in the litigation previously reported in our Form 10-Q for the period ended June
30, 2003 as filed with the SEC on August 14, 2003.  We are involved from time to
time in litigation  relating to claims arising in the normal course of business.
Management  is of the opinion that the ultimate  resolution  of such claims will
not materially affect our business or financial position.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

During the fourth  quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our  common  stock is traded on the New York  Stock  Exchange  ("NYSE")  and the
Pacific  Exchange  under the ticker symbol "BEN",  and the London Stock Exchange
under the ticker symbol "FRK". On September 30, 2003, the closing price of FRI's
common stock on the NYSE was $44.21 per share.  At December 1, 2003,  there were
approximately 4,900 shareholders of record.

The  following  table  sets  forth the high and low sales  prices for our common
stock on the NYSE.
<TABLE>

                                            2003 FISCAL YEAR                    2002 FISCAL YEAR
------------------------------------ -------------- -------------- ------ ------------ --------------
QUARTER                                  HIGH            LOW                 HIGH           LOW
------------------------------------ -------------- -------------- ------ ------------ --------------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>                  <C>           <C>
October-December                        $37.85         $27.90               $37.85        $30.85
January-March                           $37.01         $29.99               $44.15        $34.52
April-June                              $40.85         $32.84               $44.48        $39.45
July-September                          $46.95         $38.66               $43.15        $29.52
</TABLE>

We declared  dividends  of $0.30 per share in fiscal 2003 and $0.28 per share in
fiscal 2002.  We expect to continue  paying  dividends  on a quarterly  basis to
holders of our common stock depending upon earnings and other relevant factors.



                                       26
<PAGE>


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

(IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT,  PER SHARE AMOUNTS AND EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT)

AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,          2003       2002       2001       2000     1999
------------------------------------------------ --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------
<S>                                              <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>      <C>
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
  Operating revenues                             $2,624.4   $2,518.5   $2,354.8   $2,340.1 $2,262.5
  Net income                                        502.8      432.7      484.7      562.1    426.7

FINANCIAL DATA
  Total assets                                   $6,970.7   $6,422.7   $6,265.7   $4,042.4 $3,666.8
  Long-term debt                                  1,108.9      595.1      566.0      294.1    294.3
  Stockholders' equity                            4,310.1    4,266.9    3,977.9    2,965.5  2,657.0
  Operating cash flow                               548.0      736.8      553.2      701.7    584.5

ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT (IN BILLIONS)
  Period ending                                    $301.9     $247.8     $246.4     $229.9   $218.1
  Simple monthly average                            269.8      263.2      243.4      227.7    219.8

PER COMMON SHARE
  Earnings
    Basic                                           $1.98      $1.66      $1.92      $2.28    $1.69
    Diluted                                          1.97       1.65       1.91       2.28     1.69
  Cash dividends                                     0.30       0.28       0.26       0.24     0.22
  Book value                                        17.53      16.50      15.25      12.17    10.59

EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT                                  6,504      6,711      6,868      6,489    6,650
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

In this  section,  we  discuss  our  results  of  operations  and our  financial
condition. In addition to historical  information,  we also make some statements
relating to the future,  which are called  "forward-looking  statements".  These
forward-looking  statements  involve a number of risks,  uncertainties and other
important  factors  that could cause our actual  results and  outcomes to differ
materially  from any future  results or  outcomes  expressed  or implied by such
forward-looking  statements. For this reason, you should not rely too heavily on
them and  should  review the "Risk  Factors"  section,  where we  discuss  these
statements in more detail.

GENERAL

We derive the majority of our  operating  revenues,  operating  expenses and net
income from providing  investment advisory and related services to retail mutual
funds,  institutional,  high net-worth,  private  accounts and other  investment
products.  This is our primary  business  activity and  operating  segment.  The
mutual  funds  and  other  products  that we  advise,  collectively  called  our
sponsored investment products, are distributed to the public globally under five
distinct names:

* Franklin    * Templeton    * Mutual Series     * Bissett     * Fiduciary Trust

Our sponsored investment products include a broad range of  global/international
equity,  U.S.  domestic,  hybrid/balanced,  fixed-income and money market mutual
funds, as well as other investment products that meet a wide variety of specific
investment needs of individuals and institutions.

The level of our  revenues  depends  largely  on the level and  relative  mix of
assets under  management.  To a lesser  degree,  our revenues also depend on the
level of mutual fund sales and the number of mutual fund  shareholder  accounts.
The fees  charged for our services  are based on  contracts  with our  sponsored
investment  products or our  clients.  These  arrangements  could  change in the
future.


                                       27
<PAGE>

Our  secondary   business  and  operating   segment  is   banking/finance.   Our
banking/finance group offers selected  retail-banking services to high net-worth
individuals,  foundations and institutions,  and consumer lending services.  Our
consumer lending  activities include automotive lending related to the purchase,
securitization,  and servicing of retail installment sales contracts  originated
by independent  automobile  dealerships,  consumer credit and debit cards,  real
estate equity lines, and home equity/mortgage loans.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The table below  presents the  highlights of our  operations  for the last three
fiscal years.

<TABLE>
(IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
                                                                                    2003        2002
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,        2003          2002          2001        VS 2002     VS 2001
---------------------------------- ----------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>           <C>               <C>       <C>
NET INCOME                             $502.8        $432.7        $484.7            16%       (11)%
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
Basic                                   $1.98         $1.66         $1.92            19%       (14)%
Diluted                                  1.97          1.65          1.91            19%       (14)%
OPERATING MARGIN                          25%           23%           22%             --          --
---------------------------------- ----------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------
</TABLE>

Net income  increased by 16% and diluted  earnings per share increased by 19% in
fiscal  2003.  The  increase  was  primarily  due to higher  operating  revenues
consistent  with a 3%  increase  in our  simple  monthly  average  assets  under
management,  higher  gross  sales,  and  an  increase  in  billable  shareholder
accounts, as well as higher investment and other income in fiscal 2003 due to an
other-than-temporary decline in the value of certain investments in fiscal 2002.
These increases were partially  offset by higher  underwriting  and distribution
expenses and a higher effective tax rate in fiscal 2003 as compared to the prior
year. An increase in repurchases of our stock, resulting in a decline in diluted
weighted-average  shares  outstanding from 262.1 million in fiscal 2002 to 254.7
million in fiscal 2003, also contributed to the increase in diluted earnings per
common share.

Net income  decreased by 11% and diluted  earnings per share decreased by 14% in
fiscal 2002  primarily due to lower  investment  and other income  related to an
other-than-temporary  decline in the value of certain  investments and increased
operating expenses, partially offset by higher revenues.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT

(IN BILLIONS)
                                                                                    2003        2002
AS OF THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,      2003          2002          2001        VS 2002     VS 2001
------------------------------------ --------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>           <C>              <C>         <C>
EQUITY
  Global/international                  $99.8         $76.5         $80.2            30%        (5)%
  Domestic (U.S.)                        55.4          41.4          44.5            34%        (7)%
------------------------------------ --------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------
  TOTAL EQUITY                          155.2         117.9         124.7            32%        (5)%

HYBRID/BALANCED                          45.8          36.6          36.1            25%          1%

FIXED-INCOME
  Tax-free                               52.2          52.8          48.4           (1)%          9%
  Taxable
     Domestic (U.S.)                     31.1          26.1          24.4            19%          7%
     Global/international                11.8           8.6           7.2            37%         19%
------------------------------------ --------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------
  TOTAL FIXED-INCOME                     95.1          87.5          80.0             9%          9%

MONEY MARKET                              5.8           5.8           5.6             --          4%
------------------------------------ --------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------
  TOTAL                                $301.9        $247.8        $246.4            22%          1%
------------------------------------ --------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------
Simple monthly average for the         $269.8        $263.2        $243.4             3%          8%
year /1/
------------------------------------ --------- ------------- ------------- -------------- -----------

/1/  Investment  management  fees from  approximately  50% of our  assets  under management at
     September 30, 2003 were calculated using daily average assets under management.
</TABLE>

                                       28
<PAGE>

Our assets under  management  at  September  30, 2003 were $301.9  billion,  22%
higher than they were a year ago,  due to excess  sales over  redemptions  ("net
inflows") of $14.4 billion and market  appreciation of $42.0 billion,  primarily
in the  latter  half  of  fiscal  2003.  Simple  monthly  average  assets  under
management,  which are generally  more  indicative of investment  management fee
revenue trends than the year over year change in ending assets under management,
increased 3% during fiscal 2003.

The simple  monthly  average mix of assets under  management  for the last three
fiscal years is shown below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

AS OF  THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                2003          2002         2001
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PERCENTAGE OF SIMPLE MONTHLY AVERAGE ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>          <C>
Equity                                                               49%           52%          59%
Fixed-income                                                         34%           31%          29%
Hybrid/balanced                                                      15%           15%          10%
Money market                                                          2%            2%           2%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                               100%          100%         100%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The following table presents industry data showing average effective  investment
management fee rates /2/ for the years ended  September 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
The data was obtained from Lipper(R) Inc. and our actual effective fee rates may
vary from these rates.
<TABLE>

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                     2003                   2002               2001
------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---------------------- ------------------
<S>                                                  <C>                    <C>                <C>
EQUITY
  Global/international                               0.71%                  0.71%              0.72%
  Domestic (U.S.)                                    0.54%                  0.55%              0.55%
HYBRID/BALANCED                                      0.42%                  0.45%              0.46%
FIXED-INCOME
  Tax-free                                           0.42%                  0.43%              0.43%
  Taxable
    Domestic (U.S.)                                  0.43%                  0.43%              0.45%
    Global/international                             0.60%                  0.59%              0.59%
MONEY MARKET                                         0.27%                  0.27%              0.28%
------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---------------------- ------------------

/2/  Calculated  by  Franklin  Templeton  Investments  based  on  asset-weighted averages of  management
     fee rates  provided  by  Lipper(R)  Inc.  Industry effective  investment   management  fee  rates
     are  calculated  using  all U.S.-based,  open-ended  funds that reported expense data to Lipper(R)
     Inc. as of the funds' most recent annual report date,  and for which  management fee rates  were
     greater or equal to zero.  Industry effective fee rates reflect the investment management expenses
     of retail and  institutional funds drawn from all distribution channels, without exception. The
     averages reflect combined retail and institutional  funds data and include all share classes,  and
     all  distribution  channels,  without  exception.   Variable annuities are not included.

</TABLE>

For  the  2003  fiscal  year,  our  effective  investment  management  fee  rate
(investment  management  fees  divided by simple  monthly  average  assets under
management)  declined to 0.55% from 0.56% in fiscal 2002.  The change in the mix
of assets  under  management,  resulting  from higher  relative  net inflows and
appreciation for fixed-income as compared to equity products,  led to the slight
decrease  in  the  effective   investment   management   fee  rate.   Generally,
fixed-income  and  hybrid/balanced  products  carry a lower  management fee than
equity assets.

The  decline in the  effective  management  fee rate to 0.56% in fiscal  2002 as
compared to 0.58% in fiscal 2001 was largely due to the  inclusion of the assets
under management of Fiduciary Trust Company  International  ("Fiduciary  Trust")
beginning  in fiscal  2001 and market  depreciation  in equity  assets in fiscal
2002.  Approximately  64% of  Fiduciary  Trust's  assets under  management  were
classified as hybrid/balanced assets at the time of acquisition in April 2001.


                                       29
<PAGE>

Assets under management by shareholder location were as follows:

(IN BILLIONS)

AS OF THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                2003
----------------------------------------  ------------
United States                                   $239.9
Canada                                            21.5
Europe                                            19.9
Asia/Pacific and other                            20.6
----------------------------------------  ------------
Total                                           $301.9
----------------------------------------  ------------

Investors  in the United  States  owned  approximately  79% of our assets  under
management  at  September  30,  2003  and  approximately  72%  of  our  revenues
originated  in the  United  States  in  fiscal  2003.  Investment  advisory  and
administrative services related to these assets may be provided in jurisdictions
outside the United States in accordance with contractual  arrangements  with our
sponsored investment products.

Components of the change in our assets under management were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(IN BILLIONS)

AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED                                                         2003     2002
SEPTEMBER 30,                           2003          2002         2001            VS 2002  VS 2001
------------------------------------- -------- ------------- ------------- --------------- ---------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>          <C>                <C>       <C>
Beginning assets under management     $247.8        $246.4       $229.9                 1%       7%
Sales                                   81.3          72.4         58.5                12%      24%
Reinvested dividends                     3.7           4.8          9.0              (23)%    (47)%
Redemptions                            (66.9)        (57.5)       (58.6)               16%     (2)%
Distributions                           (6.0)         (7.2)       (12.0)             (17)%    (40)%
Acquisitions                              --           0.8         49.5             (100)%    (98)%
Appreciation (depreciation)             42.0         (11.9)       (29.9)               N/A    (60)%
------------------------------------- -------- ------------- ------------- --------------- ---------
Ending assets under management        $301.9        $247.8       $246.4               22%       1%
------------------------------------- -------- ------------- ------------- --------------- ---------
</TABLE>

During  fiscal 2003 and 2002,  our  sponsored  investment  products  experienced
overall net inflows in contrast to the slight net outflows experienced in fiscal
2001. Gross product sales increased 12% while redemptions increased 16% in 2003.
Our  acquisition of Pioneer ITI AMC Limited  ("Pioneer"),  an Indian  investment
management  company,  in July 2002 increased our assets under management by $0.8
billion as of the date of this acquisition.  In 2001, the acquisition of Bissett
and  Associates  Investment  Management  Ltd.  ("Bissett"),   in  October  2000,
increased our assets under  management by $3.7 billion,  and the Fiduciary Trust
acquisition,  in April 2001,  increased  our assets  under  management  by $45.8
billion, as of the dates of those acquisitions.

Our  products  experienced  $42.0  billion  in  appreciation  in fiscal  2003 as
compared to market  depreciation in both fiscal 2002 and 2001 consistent with an
overall  increase in domestic  and global  equity  markets in the latter half of
2003.


                                       30
<PAGE>



OPERATING REVENUES

The table below presents the percentage  change in each revenue category between
fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 and between fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001.

<TABLE>

                                               2003        2002         PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL REVENUES
                                            VS 2002     VS 2001         2003          2002      2001
------------------------------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ ------------- ---------
<S>                                             <C>        <C>          <C>           <C>       <C>
Investment management fees                       2%          4%          57%           58%       60%
Underwriting and distribution fees               7%         12%          32%           31%       30%
Shareholder servicing fees                      14%        (4)%           8%            8%        8%
Consolidated sponsored investment
  products income, net                          N/A         N/A           --            --        --
Other, net                                       5%         86%           3%            3%        2%
------------------------------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ ------------- ---------
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                         4%          7%         100%          100%      100%
------------------------------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ ------------- ---------
</TABLE>

SUMMARY

In fiscal 2003, total operating revenues increased 4% over the prior year due to
increased  investment  management,  shareholder  servicing and  underwriting and
distribution  fees,  consistent  with a 3%  increase in simple  monthly  average
assets under management, an increase in billable shareholder accounts and higher
gross product sales.

In fiscal  2002,  total  operating  revenues  increased  7% over the prior year.
Investment  management and underwriting  and distribution  fees increased due to
higher net sales and higher average assets under management.  Other, net revenue
increased  due to the  inclusion of Fiduciary  Trust  revenues for a full fiscal
year in 2002, as well as higher net gains  related to auto loan  securitizations
included in other, net revenue.

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES

Investment  management  fees,  accounting  for 57% of our operating  revenues in
fiscal 2003,  include both investment  advisory and  administration  fees. These
fees are generally calculated under contractual  arrangements with our sponsored
investment  products  as a  percentage  of the  market  value  of  assets  under
management.  Annual  rates vary by  investment  objective  and type of  services
provided.  In return for these  fees,  we provide a  combination  of  investment
advisory, administrative and other management services.

Investment  management  fees  increased 2% in fiscal 2003  consistent  with a 3%
increase in simple monthly average assets under management,  partially offset by
a slight decline in our effective investment  management fee rate resulting from
a shift in average asset mix toward fixed-income products, which generally carry
a lower management fee than equity assets.

Investment  management  fees  increased  4% in  fiscal  2002  primarily  due  to
increased net sales, which increased assets under management,  and the impact of
including  Fiduciary  Trust for a full fiscal year.  This increase was partially
offset  by a shift in our  average  asset  mix  toward  fixed-income  investment
products,  which led to a decrease in our effective  investment  management  fee
rate.

UNDERWRITING AND DISTRIBUTION FEES

We earn underwriting fees from the sale of some classes of sponsored  investment
products on which  investors  pay a sales  commission  at the time of  purchase.
Sales  commissions  are reduced or  eliminated on some classes of shares and for
sales to shareholders or  intermediaries  that exceed specified minimum amounts.
Therefore,  underwriting  fees will change with the overall level of gross sales
and the relative mix of sales between different share classes.

Many of our sponsored  investment  products pay distribution  fees in return for
sales,   marketing  and  distribution  efforts  on  their  behalf.  While  other
contractual  arrangements  exist in international  jurisdictions,  in the United
States,  distribution  fees  include  "12b-1  fees".  These fees are  subject to
maximum payout levels based on a percentage of the assets in each fund and other
regulatory  limitations.  We  pay a  significant  portion  of


                                       31
<PAGE>

underwriting  and  distribution  fees  to  the  financial   advisors  and  other
intermediaries who sell our sponsored  investment  products to the public on our
behalf. See the description of underwriting and distribution expenses below.

Overall,  underwriting  and  distribution  fees  increased  7% in  fiscal  2003.
Underwriting  fees increased 8% primarily due to a 12% increase in gross product
sales,  partially  offset  by a  change  in the  sales  mix.  Distribution  fees
increased 6%  consistent  with a 3% increase in simple  monthly  average  assets
under management and a change in the asset mix.

Underwriting  and distribution  fees increased 12% in fiscal 2002.  Underwriting
fees  increased 24% consistent  with a 24% increase in gross product sales,  and
distribution  fees increased 5% consistent with an 8% increase in simple monthly
average assets under management.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICING FEES

Shareholder  servicing fees are generally fixed charges per shareholder  account
that vary with the particular  type of fund and the service being  rendered.  In
some instances,  sponsored  investment  products are charged these fees based on
the level of assets  under  management.  We  receive  fees as  compensation  for
providing transfer agency services,  including  providing  customer  statements,
transaction  processing,  customer  service  and tax  reporting.  In the  United
States,  transfer  agency service  agreements  provide that accounts closed in a
calendar  year  remain  billable  through  the second  quarter of the  following
calendar  year at a reduced  rate.  In  Canada,  such  agreements  provide  that
accounts  closed in the calendar year remain  billable for four months after the
end of the  calendar  year.  Accordingly,  the  level of fees will vary with the
growth in new accounts and the level of closed accounts that remain billable.

Shareholder  servicing fees increased 14% in fiscal 2003. The increase  reflects
an increase in the overall number of billable  shareholder  accounts,  partially
offset by a decline  in fee rates  chargeable  on  accounts  closed in the prior
calendar year,  under revised  shareholder  service fee agreements in the United
States that became  effective  on January 1, 2003.  The 0.7 million  shareholder
accounts  added in July  2002 as a result of the  acquisition  of  Pioneer  also
contributed to the increase in average billable accounts in fiscal 2003.

Shareholder  servicing  fees  decreased  4% in  fiscal  2002  consistent  with a
decrease in the quarterly average number of billable accounts.

OTHER, NET

Other,  net consists  primarily of revenues from the  banking/finance  operating
segment  as  well  as  income  from   custody   services.   Revenues   from  the
banking/finance  operating  segment include interest income on loans,  servicing
income, and investment income on banking/finance  investment securities, and are
reduced by interest expense and the provision for probable loan losses.

Other, net increased 5% in fiscal 2003 as a result of higher net interest income
and auto loan servicing  income,  partially offset by lower custody fees. Other,
net  increased  86% in fiscal 2002  primarily  due to the inclusion of Fiduciary
Trust's  banking  and  custody  activities  for a full  fiscal  year in 2002 and
increased gains recognized on auto loan portfolio sales.


                                       32
<PAGE>

OPERATING EXPENSES

The table below presents the percentage  change in each expense category between
fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 and between fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001.
<TABLE>

                                                        2003         2002     PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EXPENSES
                                                     VS 2002      VS 2001         2003    2002    2001
---------------------------------------------- -------------- -----------       -------- ------ -------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>             <C>     <C>     <C>
Underwriting and distribution                             6%         12%           38%     37%     35%
Compensation and benefits                                 1%          5%           33%     33%     33%
Information systems, technology and occupancy           (3)%         12%           14%     15%     14%
Advertising and promotion                              (14)%          1%            5%      6%      6%
Amortization of deferred sales commissions                9%        (2)%            4%      3%      4%
Amortization of intangible assets                       (1)%       (70)%            1%      1%      3%
September 11, 2001 (recovery) expense, net               N/A      (100)%            0%      0%      0%
Other                                                    19%        (2)%            5%      5%      5%
---------------------------------------------- -------------- -----------       -------- ------ -------
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                  2%          5%          100%    100%    100%
---------------------------------------------- -------------- -----------       -------- ------ -------
</TABLE>

SUMMARY

Operating  expenses  increased  2% during  fiscal 2003  primarily  due to higher
underwriting and  distribution  and other expenses,  which were partly offset by
lower  advertising  and  promotion,  and  information  systems,  technology  and
occupancy costs.

Operating  expenses increased 5% during fiscal 2002. This increase was primarily
due to increased  underwriting  and  distribution  fees  consistent  with higher
underwriting and distribution  revenue, and higher compensation and benefits and
technology  and  occupancy  costs  primarily  due to the  inclusion of Fiduciary
Trust's  activity for a full fiscal year in 2002.  The increase in these expense
categories was offset in part by a decline in amortization of intangible  assets
on  discontinuation  of  the  amortization  of  goodwill  and   indefinite-lived
intangible assets.

UNDERWRITING AND DISTRIBUTION

Underwriting and distribution  includes expenses paid to financial  advisers and
other third parties for selling,  distributing and providing ongoing services to
investors in our sponsored investment products.

Underwriting  and distribution  expenses  increased 6% in fiscal 2003 and 12% in
fiscal 2002  consistent  with similar trends in  underwriting  and  distribution
revenues.

COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS

Compensation  and  benefits  increased  1%  during  fiscal  2003.   Although  we
experienced a decrease in retention bonus commitments related to the acquisition
of Fiduciary Trust, we have also experienced increases in employee insurance and
other benefits costs in fiscal 2003. We employed  approximately  6,500 people at
September 30, 2003 compared to  approximately  6,700 at the same time last year.
In order to hire and retain  key  employees,  we are  committed  to keeping  our
salaries  and  benefit  packages  competitive,  which  means  that the  level of
compensation and benefits may increase more quickly or decrease more slowly than
our revenues.

Compensation  and benefits  increased 5% during  fiscal 2002.  This increase was
primarily due to the inclusion of Fiduciary  Trust's  activity for a full fiscal
year,  partially  offset  by an  overall  decline  in  employees  as well as the
decision  made by management  during the quarter  ended  December 2001 to reduce
employee salaries by 5% or 10%, depending on specific salary categories.  In May
2002, we reinstated  salaries for  employees  whose  salaries were reduced by 5%
and,  in July  2002,  we  reinstated  employee  salaries  in the  10%  reduction
category.



                                       33
<PAGE>

INFORMATION SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGY AND OCCUPANCY

Information systems, technology and occupancy costs decreased 3% in fiscal 2003.
This decrease was primarily due to decreased purchases of information system and
technology  equipment  leading  to  decreased   depreciation   (certain  of  our
technology  equipment is  periodically  replaced  with new  equipment  under our
technology outsourcing agreement) and lower expenditures on technology projects.
While  continuing to work on new  technology  initiatives  and investment in our
technology  infrastructure,  we have  slowed  down a number of  initiatives  and
delayed  the  start of other  technology  projects  given  the  recent  economic
slowdown and our focus on cost control and management.

Information  systems,  technology  and occupancy  costs  increased 12% in fiscal
2002.  This  increase was primarily due to the inclusion of costs related to the
outsourcing  of the  management  of  our  data  center  and  distributed  server
operations  and added  technology  and occupancy  costs of the  Fiduciary  Trust
acquisition for a full fiscal year in 2002.

Details of capitalized  information  systems and  technology  costs for the last
three fiscal years were as follows:

<TABLE>
(IN THOUSANDS)                                                     2003           2002        2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>            <C>         <C>
Net carrying amount at beginning of period                     $121,486       $162,857    $156,895
Additions during period, net of disposals and other
  adjustments                                                    25,812         35,570      69,794
Net assets purchased through acquisitions                            --            206      11,266
Amortization during period                                      (68,172)       (77,147)    (75,098)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net carrying amount at end of period                            $79,126       $121,486    $162,857
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION

Advertising  and promotion  decreased 14% during fiscal 2003 and increased 1% in
fiscal 2002.  During fiscal 2002 we incurred  higher  promotion and  advertising
costs to educate the sales  channels and the  investing  public about the strong
relative investment  performance of our sponsored  investment  products.  We are
committed  to  investing in  advertising  and  promotion in response to changing
business  conditions,  which means that the level of  advertising  and promotion
expenditures  may  increase  more  rapidly  or  decrease  more  slowly  than our
revenues.

AMORTIZATION OF DEFERRED SALES COMMISSIONS

Certain  fund share  classes,  including  Class B, are sold  without a front-end
sales charge to  shareholders,  although  our  distribution  subsidiaries  pay a
commission on the sale. In the United States,  Class A shares are sold without a
front-end sales charge to shareholders when minimum investment criteria are met.
However,  our U.S.  distribution  subsidiary  pays a commission  on these sales.
Class C shares are sold with a  front-end  sales  charge  that is lower than the
commission  paid by the U.S.  distributor.  We defer and  amortize  all up-front
commissions  paid by our  distribution  subsidiaries  over 18  months to 8 years
depending on share class or financing arrangements.

We have arranged to finance our Class B and C deferred commission assets ("DCA")
arising  from our U.S.,  Canadian  and  European  operations  through  Lightning
Finance  Company  Limited  ("LFL"),  a company in which we have a 49%  ownership
interest.  In the United States, LFL has entered into a financing agreement with
our U.S.  distribution  subsidiary and we maintain a continuing  interest in the
assets  until  resold by LFL.  As a result,  we retain DCA sold to LFL under the
U.S.  agreement in our  financial  statements  and amortize  them over an 8-year
period,  or  until  sold  by LFL  to  third-parties.  In  contrast  to the  U.S.
arrangement,  LFL has  entered  into direct  agreements  with our  Canadian  and
European sponsored investment  products,  and, as a result, we do not record DCA
from these sources in our financial statements.

Amortization of deferred sales commissions  increased 9% in fiscal 2003 from the
prior year  primarily  due to increased  gross product sales and because LFL did
not sell any U.S. DCA in a  securitization  transaction in


                                       34
<PAGE>

fiscal 2003, while it sold approximately  $61.5 million U.S. DCA in fiscal 2002.
Amortization of deferred sales  commissions  decreased 2% in fiscal 2002, due to
changes in sales mix and existing financing arrangements.

AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Amortization of intangible assets decreased 1% in fiscal 2003,  primarily due to
foreign currency  movements.  Amortization of intangible assets decreased 70% in
fiscal 2002 due to the adoption of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), on October 1, 2001.
Under SFAS 142, we ceased to amortize goodwill and  indefinite-lived  intangible
assets.  This resulted in a reduction in amortization  expense of  approximately
$50 million in fiscal 2002 as compared to the prior year.  As of March 31, 2003,
we  completed   our  most  recent  annual   impairment   test  of  goodwill  and
indefinite-lived  and  definite-lived  intangible  assets and we determined that
there was no impairment to these assets as of October 1, 2002.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

Other  income  (expense)  includes  investment  and other  income  and  interest
expense. Beginning July 1, 2003, realized and unrealized gains (losses), net, of
sponsored investment products that were consolidated in our financial statements
on adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")  Interpretation
No. 46,  "Consolidation  of Variable  Interest  Entities"  ("FIN 46"),  are also
included  in this  classification.  See the  description  of FIN 46 in  Critical
Accounting Policies below.

Investment and other income is comprised primarily of the following:

*    dividends from investments
*    interest income from investments in bonds and government securities
*    realized gains and losses on investments
*    foreign currency exchange gains and losses
*    miscellaneous income, including gain or loss on disposal of property.

Net other  income was $52.1  million in fiscal 2003 as compared to a net expense
of $7.2  million  in  fiscal  2002 due to a $60.1  million  other-than-temporary
decline in value of some of our investments  recognized in the fourth quarter of
fiscal  2002.  Net other  income  was $125.8  million in fiscal  2001 due to net
realized gains of approximately  $34.2 million on the sale of certain  sponsored
investment  products held for  investment  purposes and other  realized gains of
$24.6  million  related to the sale of our former  headquarters  building in San
Mateo.

TAXES ON INCOME

As a multi-national  corporation, we provide investment management services to a
wide range of international  investment  products,  often managed from locations
outside the United States. Some of these jurisdictions have lower tax rates than
the United States.  The mix of income  (primarily  investment  management  fees)
subject to these lower rates,  when  aggregated  with income  originating in the
United  States,  produces a lower overall  effective tax rate than existing U.S.
Federal  and state tax rates.  Our  effective  income  tax rate for fiscal  2003
increased  to 28%  compared  to 25% in fiscal 2002 and 24% in fiscal  2001.  The
effective  tax rate will  continue  to reflect  the  relative  contributions  of
foreign  earnings  that  are  subject  to  reduced  tax  rates  and that are not
currently included in U.S. taxable income, as well as other factors.

MATERIAL CHANGES IN FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At September 30, 2003, we had $1,053.7 million in cash and cash equivalents,  as
compared to $980.6  million at  September  30, 2002.  Cash and cash  equivalents
include cash, U.S.  Treasury bills and other debt instruments with maturities of
three months or less from the purchase date and other highly liquid  investments
that are readily  convertible  into cash,  including money market funds.  Liquid
assets,   which   consist   of   cash   and   cash   equivalents,    investments
available-for-sale  and current  receivables,  increased to $3,272.3  million at
September  30, 2003 from $2,826.0  million at September 30, 2002.  Liquid assets
have  increased  in fiscal 2003  primarily  due to cash  provided  by  operating
activities, proceeds received from auto loan securitizations and the issuance of
medium-term  notes,  offset  in part  by  common  stock  repurchases  and  loan
origination activity.


                                       35
<PAGE>

Outstanding  debt,  including  Federal  Home  Loan  Bank  advances  and  current
maturities  of long-term  debt,  increased to $1,123.7  million at September 30,
2003, compared to $611.5 million at September 30, 2002. The balance at September
30, 2003 included  $520.3 million in principal and accrued  interest  related to
outstanding  convertible  notes,  $420.0  million in five-year  senior notes and
$168.8 million in other  long-term debt,  including  current  maturities.  Other
long-term debt consisted primarily of deferred commission liabilities recognized
in relation to U.S.  DCA  financed by LFL that had not yet been sold by LFL in a
securitization transaction (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements
for a further description of debt outstanding).

Each  of  the  $1,000  (principal  amount  at  maturity)  convertible  notes  is
convertible  into  9.3604  shares  of  our  common  stock.  We  may  redeem  the
convertible  notes for cash on or after May 11, 2006 at their accreted value. On
May 12, 2003, at the option of the holders,  we  repurchased  convertible  notes
with a face value of $5.9 million principal amount at maturity, for $3.5 million
in cash,  the  accreted  value of the notes as of May 11,  2003.  We may have to
repurchase the  convertible  notes at their accreted value, at the option of the
holders,  on May 11 of 2004,  2006, 2011, 2016, 2021 and 2026. In this event, we
may choose to pay the purchase price in cash or shares of our common stock.  The
amount of  convertible  notes that will be  redeemed  depends  on,  among  other
factors, the performance of our common stock.

As of September 30, 2002,  outstanding  debt included  $514.2 million related to
the  convertible  notes and $88.8  million of other  long-term  debt,  including
current maturities.  The increase in outstanding debt from September 30, 2002 is
primarily due to the issuance of the five-year  senior notes in April 2003,  the
increase in U.S.  DCA  financed  by LFL,  and the  accretion  of interest on the
convertible notes.

As of September 30, 2003, we had $500.0  million of commercial  paper and $300.0
million  of debt and  equity  securities  available  to be  issued  under  shelf
registration  statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Our
committed  revolving  credit  facilities  at September  30, 2003 totaled  $420.0
million,  of which,  $210.0 million was under a 364-day facility.  The remaining
$210.0 million  facility is under a five-year  facility that will expire in June
2007. In addition, at September 30, 2003, our banking/finance  operating segment
had $559.5  million in  available  uncommitted  short-term  bank lines under the
Federal  Reserve Funds system,  the Federal  Reserve Bank discount  window,  and
Federal Home Loan Bank short-term borrowing capacity.  Our ability to access the
capital markets in a timely manner depends on a number of factors  including our
credit rating,  the condition of the global economy,  investors'  willingness to
purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels
of equity markets. In extreme circumstances, we might not be able to access this
liquidity readily.

Our  banking/finance  operating  segment  periodically  enters  into  auto  loan
securitization  transactions with qualified special purpose entities, which then
issue  asset-backed  securities to private  investors.  Gross sale proceeds from
these  transactions  were $464.4  million in fiscal  2003 and $565.2  million in
fiscal  2002.  The  outstanding  loan  balances  held by these  special  purpose
entities were $680.7  million as of September 30, 2003 and $530.9  million as of
September  30,  2002.  Our  ability to access  the  securitization  market  will
directly affect our plans to finance the auto loan portfolio in the future.

The sales  commissions that we have financed  globally through LFL during fiscal
2003,  were  approximately  $161.3 million  compared to $135.3 million in fiscal
2002. LFL's ability to access credit  facilities and the  securitization  market
will directly affect our existing financing arrangements.

We expect that the main uses of cash will be to:

*    expand our core business
*    make strategic acquisitions
*    acquire shares of our common stock
*    fund  property  and  equipment  purchases
*    pay operating expenses of the business
*    enhance our technology infrastructure
*    improve our business processes
*    pay shareholder dividends
*    repay and service debt.


                                       36
<PAGE>

We believe  that we can meet our present and  reasonably  foreseeable  operating
cash needs and future commitments through the following:

*    existing liquid assets
*    continuing cash flow from operations
*    borrowing capacity under current credit facilities
*    ability to issue debt or equity securities
*    mutual fund sales commission financing arrangement.

In  particular,  we expect to finance future  investment in our  banking/finance
activities  through  operating  cash flows,  debt,  increased  deposit  base, or
through the securitization of a portion of the receivables from consumer lending
activities.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

Our contractual  cash  obligations and commitments as of September 30, 2003 were
as follows:
<TABLE>

                                                              PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD
                                               ------------------------------------------------------
                                                                LESS                            MORE
(IN THOUSANDS)                                      TOTAL     THAN 1       1-3         4-5    THAN 5
                                                                YEAR     YEARS       YEARS     YEARS
---------------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ----------- ---------
<S>                                            <C>           <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>
Long-term debt obligations                     $1,108,881    $22,450   $46,300    $468,236  $571,895
Operating lease obligations                       268,577     34,760    60,881      49,189   123,747
---------------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ----------- ---------
</TABLE>

In addition,  at September 30, 2003, the  banking/finance  operating segment had
commitments to extend credit  aggregating  $280.5  million,  primarily under its
credit card lines and had issued  financial  standby  letters of credit totaling
$5.5 million on which  beneficiaries  would be able to draw upon in the event of
non-performance  by our  customers,  primarily  in  relation  to lease  and lien
obligations of these banking customers.  These standby letters of credit, issued
prior to January 1, 2003,  were  secured by  marketable  securities  with a fair
value of $15.2 million as of September 30, 2003 and commercial real estate.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

As discussed  above, we obtain  financing for sales  commissions  that we pay to
brokers on Class B and C shares through LFL, a company  incorporated  in Ireland
whose  sole  business  purpose is to finance  our DCA.  We hold a 49%  ownership
interest  in LFL and we account  for this  ownership  interest  using the equity
method of  accounting.  Our exposure to loss related to our investment in LFL is
limited to the carrying value of our investment and loans, and interest and fees
receivable  from LFL. At September 30, 2003,  those amounts  approximated  $54.7
million.  During fiscal 2003, we financed  approximately $161.3 million of sales
commissions  through LFL and we recognized  pre-tax income of approximately $0.7
million for our share of the net income of LFL.

As discussed above, our  banking/finance  operating segment  periodically enters
into  auto loan  securitization  transactions  with  qualified  special  purpose
entities,  which then issue asset-backed  securities to private  investors.  Our
main objective in entering in securitization transactions is to obtain financing
for auto loan activities.  Securitized loans held by the  securitization  trusts
totaled $680.7 million at September 30, 2003 and $530.9 million at September 30,
2002. In relation to these transactions, we are obligated to cover shortfalls in
amounts due to the holders of the notes up to certain levels as specified  under
the related  agreements.  As of September 30, 2003, the maximum potential amount
of future  payments  was $13.7  million  relating  to  guarantees  made prior to
January 1, 2003. In addition,  our  consolidated  balance sheet at September 30,
2003 included a $0.1 million  liability to reflect  obligations  arising from an
auto securitization transaction that we entered into in June 2003.

We  are  contingently  liable  for  approximately  $145.0  million  in  residual
guarantees under an operating lease for our global corporate headquarters campus
in San Mateo,  California.  This represents about 85% of the total  construction
costs of  $170.0  million.  We are also  contingently  liable  to  purchase  the
corporate  headquarters  campus  for an amount  equal to the final  construction
costs of $170.0 million if an event of default  occurs under the  agreement.  An
event of default includes, but is not limited to, failure to make lease payments
when due and

                                       37
<PAGE>

failure to maintain required insurance.  Management considers the possibility of
default under the provisions of the agreement to be remote.

Currently,  the  lease  is  treated  as an  operating  lease,  as  none  of  the
capitalization  criteria under Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No.
13,  "Accounting  for  Leases",  were  met at the  inception  of the  lease.  We
anticipate that we will consolidate our corporate  headquarters campus under the
requirements of FIN 46 in the period ending December 31, 2003.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our financial  statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with
generally accepted  accounting  principles in the United States. The preparation
of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
impact our financial  position and results of  operations.  These  estimates and
assumptions  are affected by our  application of accounting  policies.  Below we
describe certain critical  accounting  policies that we believe are important to
understanding  our results of operations  and financial  position.  In addition,
please  refer to Note 1 to the  consolidated  financial  statements  for further
discussion of our accounting policies.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

At September 30, 2003 our assets included intangible assets as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                    NET CARRYING
                                                                        AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
Goodwill                                                            $1,335,517
Intangible assets - definite-lived                                     205,636
Intangible assets - indefinite-lived                                   478,645
------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
Total                                                               $2,019,798
------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------

Under  SFAS  142,  we are  required  to test the  fair  value  of  goodwill  and
indefinite-lived  intangibles  when there is an indication of impairment,  or at
least once a year. As of March 31, 2003, we completed our annual impairment test
of goodwill and  indefinite-lived  and  definite-lived  intangible assets and we
determined that there was no impairment to these assets as of October 1, 2002.

The fair value of  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets is  determined  based on
anticipated discounted cash flows. Goodwill is impaired when the carrying amount
of the reporting  unit exceeds the implied fair value of the reporting  unit. In
estimating  the fair value of the reporting  unit,  we use valuation  techniques
based on  discounted  cash flows  similar to models  employed in  analyzing  the
purchase  price  of  an  acquisition   target.   Intangible  assets  subject  to
amortization  are reviewed for impairment at each reporting  period on the basis
of the expected  future  undiscounted  operating  cash flows,  without  interest
charges, to be derived from these assets.

In performing our analysis,  we used certain assumptions and estimates including
those related to discount rates and the expected  future period of cash flows to
be derived from the assets, based on, among other factors, historical trends and
the  characteristics of the  assets.  While  we  believe  that our  testing  was
appropriate,  if these estimates and assumptions change in the future, we may be
required  to  record  impairment  charges  or  otherwise  increase  amortization
expense.

INCOME TAXES

As a  multinational  corporation,  we operate in various  locations  outside the
United  States.  We have not made a provision for U.S.  taxes on the  cumulative
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as those earnings are intended to
be reinvested for an indefinite period of time. These earnings approximated $2.1
billion at September  30,  2003.  Changes to our policy of  reinvesting  foreign
earnings may have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of
operation.


                                       38
<PAGE>


VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS

We record  substantially  all  investments  in our financial  statements at fair
value or amounts that  approximate fair value.  Where  available,  we use prices
from independent  sources such as listed market prices or broker or dealer price
quotations.  For  investments in illiquid and privately held  securities that do
not  have  readily  determinable  fair  values,  we  estimate  the  value of the
securities based upon available information.  However, even where the value of a
security is derived from an independent  market price or broker or dealer quote,
some  assumptions may be required to determine the fair value.  For example,  we
generally assume that the size of positions in securities that we hold would not
be large enough to affect the quoted price of the securities when sold, and that
any such sale would happen in an orderly manner.  However, these assumptions may
be incorrect and the actual value realized on sale could differ from the current
carrying value.

We  evaluate  our  investments  for  other-than-temporary  decline in value on a
periodic basis. This may exist when the fair value of an investment security has
been below the  current  value for an  extended  period of time.  As most of our
investments  are carried at fair value,  if an  other-than-temporary  decline in
value is determined to exist, the unrealized investment loss recorded net of tax
in accumulated other comprehensive income is realized as a charge to net income,
in the period in which the other-than-temporary  decline in value is determined.
In fiscal 2002, we recognized $60.1 million for an other-than-temporary  decline
in the value of certain  investments.  While we believe that we have  accurately
estimated the amount of other-than-temporary  decline in value in our portfolio,
different  assumptions  could result in changes to the  recorded  amounts in our
financial statements.

LOSS CONTINGENCIES

We are involved in various lawsuits and claims  encountered in the normal course
of business. When such a matter arises and periodically  thereafter,  we consult
with our legal  counsel and  evaluate the merits of the claim based on the facts
available at that time. In management's  opinion,  an adequate  accrual has been
made as of September 30, 2003 to provide for any probable  losses that may arise
from these matters.

VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

FIN 46, issued in January 2003,  requires  consolidation of a variable  interest
entity ("VIE") by the  enterprise  that has the majority of the risks or rewards
of ownership,  referred to as the primary  beneficiary.  The  consolidation  and
disclosure provisions of FIN 46 are effective immediately for VIEs created after
January 31,  2003,  and,  originally,  for interim or annual  reporting  periods
beginning after June 15, 2003 for VIEs created before February 1, 2003. However,
in October 2003,  the FASB issued Staff  Position FIN 46-6,  "Effective  Date of
FASB  Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FSP
FIN  46-6"),  deferring  the  consolidation  provisions  of FIN 46 to interim or
annual reporting  periods ending after December 15, 2003 for VIEs created before
February 1, 2003.

Six VIEs, all sponsored  investment  products with inception dates after January
31, 2003, have been  consolidated  in our financial  statements at September 30,
2003.  The effect of this  consolidation  was to increase our  consolidated  net
income by $1.1 million and our financial position by $10.4 million for and as of
the  year  ended  September  30,  2003.  Our  exposure  to loss  related  to our
investment  in these  consolidated  VIEs is limited to our  investment  and fees
earned, but not yet received, totaling $38.7 million at September 30, 2003.

We are continuing our evaluation of sponsored investment products and will adopt
the  consolidation  provisions of FIN 46 for products created before February 1,
2003 in the quarter ending  December 31, 2003, in accordance  with FSP FIN 46-6.
Based on the  current  requirements  of FIN 46, we  estimate  that the effect of
adoption on our  consolidated  balance  sheet as of December 31, 2003 will be to
increase assets by approximately  $1,119.2 million,  based on September 30, 2003
values.  Our  exposure  to loss as a result of our  investment  in these VIEs is
limited to our  investment,  totaling  $167.1 million at September 30, 2003, and
fees earned but not yet received. In addition, as the primary beneficiary of our
corporate  headquarters  campus,  a lessor  trust,  we  anticipate  that we will
consolidate  the trust under the  provisions  of FIN 46 as of December 31, 2003.
The  impact  of  consolidating  the  trust  will  be to  increase  property  and
equipment,  net by  approximately  $157.6  million  and  current  maturities  of
long-term debt, by approximately $164.9 million as of this date.


                                       39
<PAGE>

In  relation to our  purchase  of Darby  Overseas  Investments,  Ltd.  and Darby
Overseas,  L.P., we anticipate  that we will  consolidate  sponsored  investment
products  with total  assets of  approximately  $444.4  million as of October 1,
2003.

Evaluating whether related entities are VIEs and determining  whether we qualify
as the primary beneficiary of these VIEs, is highly complex and involves the use
of estimates and assumptions. In general, when we estimate the expected residual
returns of a VIE based on  discounted  cash flows,  we make certain  assumptions
about  discount  rates.  In addition,  we determine the  volatility of the VIE's
expected  returns based on available  historical  information  and  management's
estimates.  While we believe  that our testing and  approach  were  appropriate,
future  changes  in  estimates  and  assumptions  may  affect  our  decision  to
consolidate  one or more VIEs in our  financial  statements.  See Note 14 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional FIN 46 disclosures.

BANKING/FINANCE GROUP INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN ANALYSIS

The following table presents the banking/finance group's net interest income and
margin for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2003 and 2002:

<TABLE>

                                                       2003                           2002
--------------------------------------   ----------- --------- ---------- --------- --------- -----------
                                            AVERAGE              AVERAGE   AVERAGE               AVERAGE
(IN THOUSANDS)                              BALANCE  INTEREST       RATE   BALANCE  INTEREST        RATE
--------------------------------------   ----------- --------- ---------- --------- --------- -----------
<S>                                        <C>        <C>          <C>    <C>        <C>           <C>
Federal funds sold and securities
 purchased under agreements to resell       $59,799      $889      1.49%   $91,496    $1,438       1.57%

Investment securities, available-for-sale   421,320    18,207      4.32%   368,693    18,366       4.98%

Loans receivable /3/                        460,295    30,354      6.59%   490,729    33,523       6.83%
--------------------------------------   ----------- --------- ---------- --------- --------- -----------
  Total earning assets                     $941,414   $49,450      5.25%  $950,918   $53,327       5.61%

Interest-bearing deposits                  $697,273    $6,374      0.91%  $814,159    $9,812       1.21%

Inter-segment debt                          121,489     2,501      2.06%   150,566     5,415       3.60%

Federal funds purchased and securities
 sold under agreements to repurchase         16,325       261      1.60%    19,233       392       2.04%
--------------------------------------   ----------- --------- ---------- --------- --------- -----------
  Total interest-bearing liabilities       $835,087    $9,136      1.09%  $983,958   $15,619       1.59%
--------------------------------------   ----------- --------- ---------- --------- --------- -----------
Net interest income and margin                        $40,314      4.28%             $37,708       3.97%
--------------------------------------   ----------- --------- ---------- --------- --------- -----------

/3/  Non-accrual loans are included in the average loans receivable balance.
</TABLE>


                                       40
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
(IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

QUARTER                                            FIRST         SECOND         THIRD        FOURTH
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>
2003
  Revenues                                      $605,451       $613,135      $683,907      $721,955
  Operating income                              $139,455       $139,706      $169,375      $199,540
  Net income                                    $109,760       $109,603      $131,388      $152,079
  Earnings per share:
    Basic                                          $0.43          $0.43         $0.52         $0.61
    Diluted                                        $0.43          $0.43         $0.52         $0.61
  Dividend per share                              $0.075         $0.075        $0.075        $0.075
  Common stock price per share:
    High                                          $37.85         $37.01        $40.85        $46.95
    Low                                           $27.90         $29.99        $32.84        $38.66
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2002
  Revenues                                      $618,207       $625,968      $666,050      $608,307
  Operating income                              $142,865       $148,019      $153,852      $140,766
  Net income                                    $118,519       $119,996      $125,690       $68,518
  Earnings per share:
    Basic                                          $0.45          $0.46         $0.48         $0.26
    Diluted                                        $0.45          $0.46         $0.48         $0.26
  Dividend per share                              $0.070         $0.070        $0.070        $0.070
  Common stock price per share:
    High                                          $37.85         $44.15        $44.48        $43.15
    Low                                           $30.85         $34.52        $39.45        $29.52
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2001
  Revenues                                      $564,074       $577,413      $609,473      $603,883
  Operating income                              $148,978       $144,473      $124,696       $93,848
  Net income                                    $149,465       $131,684      $119,703       $83,869
  Earnings per share:
    Basic                                          $0.61          $0.54         $0.46         $0.32
    Diluted                                        $0.61          $0.54         $0.46         $0.32
  Dividend per share                              $0.065         $0.065        $0.065        $0.065
  Common stock price per share:
    High                                          $45.50         $48.30        $47.40        $46.07
    Low                                           $34.00         $34.20        $36.05        $31.65
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


RISK FACTORS

WE FACE STRONG  COMPETITION  FROM NUMEROUS AND SOMETIMES  LARGER  COMPANIES.  We
compete with  numerous  investment  management  companies,  stock  brokerage and
investment  banking  firms,   insurance  companies,   banks,  savings  and  loan
associations and other financial institutions.  Continuing  consolidation in the
financial  services  industry  has created  stronger  competitors  with  greater
financial   resources   and  broader   distribution   channels   than  our  own.
Additionally,  competing  securities dealers whom we rely upon to distribute our
mutual  funds also sell their own  proprietary  funds and  investment  products,
which could limit the  distribution  of our investment  products.  To the extent
that existing or potential customers,  including  securities dealers,  decide to
invest  in or  distribute  the  products  of our  competitors,  the sales of our
products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline.

CHANGES  IN THE  DISTRIBUTION  CHANNELS  ON WHICH WE  DEPEND  COULD  REDUCE  OUR
REVENUES AND HINDER OUR GROWTH.  We derive  nearly all of our fund sales through
broker/dealers and other similar investment advisors. Increasing competition for
these distribution  channels has caused our distribution costs to rise and could
cause further increases in the future.  Higher  distribution costs lower our net
revenues and earnings.  Additionally, if one of the major financial advisors who
distribute  our  products  were to  cease  their  operations,  it  could  have a
significant adverse impact on our revenues and earnings.  Moreover,  our failure
to maintain strong business


                                       41
<PAGE>

relationships  with these  advisors  would impair our ability to distribute  and
sell our  products,  which  would have a negative  effect on our level of assets
under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

WE HAVE BECOME SUBJECT TO AN INCREASED RISK OF ASSET  VOLATILITY FROM CHANGES IN
THE GLOBAL EQUITY MARKETS.  We have become subject to an increased risk of asset
volatility from changes in the domestic and global  financial and equity markets
due to the continuing threat of terrorism. Declines in these markets have caused
in the past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our revenue and income.

THE LEVELS OF OUR ASSETS UNDER  MANAGEMENT,  WHICH IN TURN IMPACT REVENUES,  ARE
SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS.  Global economic conditions, changes in the
equity market place, interest rates,  inflation rates, the yield curve and other
factors that are difficult to predict  affect the mix,  market values and levels
of our assets under management.  Changing market conditions may cause a shift in
our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue
and income, since we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity
assets than from  fixed-income  products we manage.  Similarly,  our securitized
consumer receivables business is subject to marketplace fluctuation.

WE  FACE  RISKS  ASSOCIATED  WITH  CONDUCTING  OPERATIONS  IN  NUMEROUS  FOREIGN
COUNTRIES.  We sell  mutual  funds and offer  investment  advisory  and  related
services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend
to  continue  to expand  our  operations  internationally.  Regulators  in these
jurisdictions  could  change  their  policies  or laws in a  manner  that  might
restrict or otherwise  impede our ability to distribute  or register  investment
products in their respective markets.

OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE THE WIDELY VARIED SEGMENTS OF OUR BUSINESS
CAN BE IMPEDED BY SYSTEMS AND OTHER  TECHNOLOGICAL  LIMITATIONS.  Our  continued
success in effectively  managing and growing our business both  domestically and
abroad,  depends on our ability to integrate the varied  accounting,  financial,
information and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis.

OUR  INABILITY TO MEET CASH NEEDS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE  EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND BUSINESS  OPERATIONS.  Our ability to meet  anticipated cash needs
depends  upon  factors  including  our  asset  value,  our  creditworthiness  as
perceived by lenders and the market value of our stock.  Similarly,  our ability
to securitize and hedge future loan portfolios and credit card receivables,  and
to obtain continued  financing for Class B and C shares,  is also subject to the
market's perception of those assets,  finance rates offered by competitors,  and
the general  market for private debt. If we are unable to obtain these funds and
financing,  we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business
plans.

CERTAIN OF THE PORTFOLIOS WE MANAGE INCLUDING OUR EMERGING MARKET PORTFOLIOS AND
RELATED REVENUES ARE VULNERABLE TO MARKET-SPECIFIC  POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC RISKS.
Our  emerging  market  portfolios  and  revenues  derived  from  managing  these
portfolios  are  subject  to  significant  risks  of  loss  from  political  and
diplomatic developments,  currency fluctuations,  social instability, changes in
governmental  polices,  expropriation,  nationalization,  asset confiscation and
changes in legislation  related to foreign  ownership.  Foreign trading markets,
particularly in some emerging market  countries are often smaller,  less liquid,
less  regulated  and  significantly  more  volatile  than  the  U.S.  and  other
established markets.

DIVERSE AND STRONG  COMPETITION  LIMITS THE INTEREST RATES THAT WE CAN CHARGE ON
CONSUMER LOANS.  We compete with many types of institutions  for consumer loans,
which  can  provide  loans  at  significantly  below-market  interest  rates  in
connection  with  automobile  sales or in some cases zero  interest  rates.  Our
inability  to compete  effectively  against  these  companies or to maintain our
relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer
loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business.  Economic and credit
market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which
could cause our consumer loan portfolio losses to increase.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO FEDERAL  RESERVE  BOARD  REGULATION.  Upon  completion  of our
acquisition of Fiduciary  Trust in April 2001, we became a bank holding  company
and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the
Federal  Reserve  Board.  We are subject to the  restrictions,  limitations,  or
prohibitions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and the  Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act. The Federal Reserve Board may impose additional limitations or restrictions
on our activities, including if the Federal Reserve Board believes


                                       42
<PAGE>

that we do not  have the  appropriate  financial  and  managerial  resources  to
commence  or conduct an  activity or make an  acquisition.  The Federal  Reserve
Board may also take actions as appropriate to enforce applicable federal law.

TECHNOLOGY  AND OPERATING  RISK COULD  CONSTRAIN OUR  OPERATIONS.  We are highly
dependent on the integrity of our  technology,  operating  systems and premises.
Although we have in place certain  disaster  recovery  plans,  we may experience
system  delays  and  interruptions  as a  result  of  natural  disasters,  power
failures,  acts of war, and third party failures,  which could negatively impact
our operations.

VARIOUS ONGOING  GOVERNMENTAL  INVESTIGATIONS AND REGULATORY ACTIONS AND REFORMS
RELATING TO CERTAIN PRACTICES IN THE MUTUAL FUND INDUSTRY COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT
OUR ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT,  FUTURE FINANCIAL RESULTS AND INCREASE OUR COSTS OF
DOING BUSINESS. As part of various ongoing investigations by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC"),  the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of
California,  the U.S. Attorney for the District of  Massachusetts,  the New York
Attorney General and the Secretary of State of Massachusetts relating to certain
practices in the mutual fund industry, including late trading, market timing and
sales compensation  arrangements,  Franklin Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(as used in this section,  together, the "Company"),  as well as certain current
or former  executives and employees of the Company,  have received  requests for
information and/or subpoenas to testify or produce  documents.  The Company and,
where  applicable,  the  relevant  individuals,   are  providing  documents  and
information  in response to these  requests  and  subpoenas.  In  addition,  the
Company  is  responding  to  requests  for  similar  kinds of  information  from
regulatory  authorities  in some of the  foreign  countries  where  the  Company
conducts its global asset management business.

The Company also has been conducting its own internal  fact-finding inquiry with
the assistance of outside counsel.  The Company is seeking to determine  whether
any  shareholders  of the  Franklin,  Templeton  and Mutual Series Funds (each a
"Fund" and together,  "Funds"),  including Company employees,  were permitted to
engage in late trading or in market timing transactions contrary to the policies
of the affected Fund and, if so, the  circumstances  and persons  involved.  The
Company is  committed  to taking  action to protect the  interests of our Funds'
shareholders,  including  appropriate action against any Company personnel found
to have knowingly permitted or personally engaged in improper trading practices.

To date, the Company has identified some instances of frequent trading in shares
of certain Funds by a few current or former  employees in their personal  401(k)
plan  accounts.  These  individuals  include  one trader and one  officer of the
Funds.  These two individuals have been placed on  administrative  leave and the
officer has resigned from his positions with the Funds.  Although our inquiry is
not complete,  to date we have found no instances of  inappropriate  mutual fund
trading by any  portfolio  manager,  investment  analyst or officer of  Franklin
Resources, Inc.

The independent directors of the Funds and the Company have retained independent
outside  counsel to review these matters,  to determine if any violations of law
or policies or inappropriate trading occurred, to conduct such further inquiries
as counsel may deem necessary and to report their  findings and  recommendations
to the independent directors of the Funds and the Company's board of directors.

The Company's internal inquiry regarding market timing and late trading is still
ongoing,  and we have not yet  completed  the  gathering  or  evaluation  of the
relevant facts.  Although we have not identified any late trading  problems,  we
have identified  various  instances of frequent  trading where we have questions
about the  propriety  of what  occurred  and what  responsibility,  if any,  the
Company may bear. Pending completion of the fact-finding process, one officer of
a  subsidiary  of the Company has been placed on  administrative  leave.  If the
Company  finds that it bears  responsibility  for any unlawful or  inappropriate
conduct that caused  losses to our Funds,  we are  committed to making the Funds
whole.

Separately,  in connection with the SEC's private investigation that resulted in
a proceeding  against  Morgan  Stanley DW,  Inc.,  the Company has been asked to
furnish  documents  and  testimony  relating to its  arrangements  to compensate
brokers  who  sell  Fund  shares.  Effective  November  28,  2003,  the  Company
determined not to direct any further  brokerage where the allocation is based on
sale of Fund  shares in order to satisfy  preferred  list or other  shelf  space
arrangements,  which  determination may have a material adverse financial impact
on the Company.


                                       43
<PAGE>
The Company  cannot state with  certainty the eventual  outcome of the foregoing
governmental  investigations,  the review by independent  outside counsel or the
Company's  own  internal  investigation,  which  could have a material  negative
financial  impact on the  Company.  However,  public  trust and  confidence  are
critical to the  Company's  business  and any material  loss of investor  and/or
client  confidence  could  result  in a  significant  decline  in  assets  under
management  by the  Company,  which  would  have an  adverse  effect  on  future
financial results.

In addition,  pending  regulatory and legislative  actions and reforms affecting
the mutual fund industry may significantly increase the Company's costs of doing
business  and/or  negatively  impact its revenues,  either of which could have a
material negative impact on the Company's financial results.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

In the normal course of business,  our  financial  position is subject to market
risk: the potential  loss due to changes in the value of  investments  resulting
from adverse changes in interest rates,  foreign  exchange and/or equity prices.
Management is responsible for managing this risk. Our Enterprise Risk Management
Committee  is  responsible  for  providing a framework to assist  management  to
identify, assess and manage market and other risks.

We are  exposed  to  changes  in  interest  rates  primarily  through  financing
transactions and portfolio debt holdings  available-for-sale,  which are carried
at  fair  value  in our  financial  statements.  As of  September  30,  2003,  a
significant  percentage of our outstanding  debt was at fixed interest rates. In
our  banking/finance  operating segment, we monitor the net interest rate margin
and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources.
In addition,  as of September 30, 2003, we have considered the potential  impact
of the effect on the banking/finance operating segment balances, our outstanding
debt and portfolio debt holdings,  individually and collectively, of a 100 basis
point (1%) movement in market interest rates. We do not expect this change would
have a material  impact on our  operating  revenues or results of  operations in
either scenario.

We operate  primarily in the United States,  but also provide  services and earn
revenues  in Canada,  the  Bahamas,  Europe,  Asia,  South  America,  Africa and
Australia.  A significant  portion of these  revenues and  associated  expenses,
however,  are denominated in U.S.  dollars.  Therefore,  our exposure to foreign
currency fluctuations in our revenues and expenses is not material at this time.
This  situation  may  change in the  future as our  business  continues  to grow
outside the United States.

We are also exposed to equity price fluctuations through securities we hold that
are carried at fair  value.  To mitigate  this risk,  we maintain a  diversified
investment portfolio.

                                       44
<PAGE>

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Index of  Consolidated  Financial  Statements for the years ended  September 30,
2003, 2002, and 2001.

CONTENTS                                                                    PAGE

Consolidated Financial Statements of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

Consolidated Statements of Income
  for the years ended September 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001                      46

Consolidated Balance Sheets
  as of September 30, 2003 and 2002                                           47

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income
  as of and for the years ended September 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001            49

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  for the years ended September 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001                      51

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                    52

Report of Independent Auditors                                                78

All schedules have been omitted as the  information is provided in the financial
statements  or in related  notes  thereto or is not  required to be filed as the
information is not applicable.


                                       45
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
                                                                    2003         2002        2001
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>         <C>
OPERATING REVENUES
  Investment management fees                                  $1,487,331   $1,462,655  $1,407,202
  Underwriting and distribution fees                             844,674      792,697     709,476
  Shareholder servicing fees                                     217,225      191,302     199,525
  Consolidated sponsored investment products income, net              93           --          --
  Other, net                                                      75,125       71,878      38,640
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating revenues                                     2,624,448    2,518,532   2,354,843
OPERATING EXPENSES
  Underwriting and distribution                                  760,843      716,234     636,868
  Compensation and benefits                                      649,882      645,104     615,281
  Information systems, technology and occupancy                  285,329      294,161     263,297
  Advertising and promotion                                       92,399      106,877     106,261
  Amortization of deferred sales commissions                      73,501       67,608      68,977
  Amortization of intangible assets                               16,961       17,107      56,590
  September 11, 2001 (recovery) expense, net                      (4,401)          --       7,649
  Other                                                          101,858       85,939      87,925
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating expenses                                     1,976,372    1,933,030   1,842,848
  Operating income                                               648,076      585,502     511,995
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES)
  Consolidated sponsored investment products gains, net            1,645           --          --
  Investment and other income                                     70,392        5,075     136,351
  Interest expense                                               (19,910)     (12,302)    (10,556)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Other income (expenses), net                                    52,127       (7,227)    125,795
  Income before taxes on income                                  700,203      578,275     637,790
  Taxes on income                                                197,373      145,552     153,069
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NET INCOME                                                    $502,830     $432,723    $484,721
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Earnings per share
    Basic                                                          $1.98        $1.66       $1.92
    Diluted                                                        $1.97        $1.65       $1.91
  Dividends per share                                              $0.30        $0.28       $0.26

                   See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>

                                       46
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(IN THOUSANDS)

AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,                                                              2003        2002
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                        <C>         <C>
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                $1,017,023    $850,940
  Receivables                                                                 338,292     292,325
  Investment securities, trading and available-for-sale                     1,521,933   1,121,011
  Prepaid expenses and other                                                   91,579      97,783
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total current assets                                                      2,968,827   2,362,059
BANKING/FINANCE ASSETS
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                    36,672     129,664
  Loans receivable, net                                                       470,672     444,338
  Investment securities, available-for-sale                                   358,387     432,081
  Other                                                                        52,694      45,889
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total banking/finance assets                                                918,425   1,051,972
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
  Investments, other                                                          280,356     263,927
  Deferred sales commissions                                                  215,816     130,617
  Property and equipment, net                                                 356,772     394,172
  Goodwill                                                                  1,335,517   1,321,939
  Other intangible assets, net                                                684,281     697,246
  Receivable from banking/finance group                                       102,864     100,705
  Other                                                                       107,891     100,101
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total non-current assets                                                  3,083,497   3,008,707
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TOTAL ASSETS                                                             $6,970,749  $6,422,738
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


                                       47
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                                 2003        2002
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                        <C>         <C>
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
  Compensation and benefits                                                  $225,446    $228,093
  Current maturities of long-term debt                                            287       7,830
  Accounts payable and accrued expenses                                       112,630     117,246
  Commissions                                                                  95,560      81,033
  Income taxes                                                                 43,500      12,510
  Other                                                                        11,103       8,307
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total current liabilities                                                   488,526     455,019
BANKING/FINANCE LIABILITIES
  Deposits                                                                    633,983     733,571
  Payable to parent                                                           102,864     100,705
  Other                                                                        65,133      49,660
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total banking/finance liabilities                                           801,980     883,936
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
  Long-term debt                                                            1,108,881     595,148
  Deferred taxes                                                              203,498     175,176
  Other                                                                        57,756      46,513
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total non-current liabilities                                             1,370,135     816,837
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total liabilities                                                         2,660,641   2,155,792
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (NOTE 13)
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:
  Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, 1,000,000 shares
     authorized; none issued                                                       --          --

  Common stock, $0.10 par value, 500,000,000 shares
     authorized; 245,931,522 and 258,555,285 shares
     issued and outstanding, for 2003 and 2002                                 24,593      25,856

  Capital in excess of par value                                              108,024     598,196

  Retained earnings                                                         4,129,644   3,702,636

  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)                                47,847     (59,742)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total stockholders' equity                                                  4,310,108   4,266,946
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                                 $6,970,749  $6,422,738
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


                                       48
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(IN THOUSANDS)

                                                              SHARES                    CAPITAL IN
AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED                                 COMMON          COMMON     EXCESS OF
SEPTEMBER 30, 2003, 2002, AND 2001                             STOCK           STOCK     PAR VALUE
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ------------
<S>                                                          <C>             <C>          <C>
BALANCE, OCTOBER 1, 2000                                     243,730         $24,373            $--
Net income
Other comprehensive income:
 Net unrealized loss on investments
 Currency translation adjustments
Total comprehensive income
Purchase of stock                                             (4,200)           (420)     (163,438)
Cash dividends on common stock
Issuance of restricted shares, net                               716              71        32,313
Employee stock plan (ESIP) shares                                359              36        13,077
Stock issued to acquire Fiduciary Trust                       20,187           2,019       773,768
Exercise of options and other                                      6               1         2,158
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ------------
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2001                                  260,798          26,080       657,878
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ------------
Net income
Other comprehensive income:
 Net unrealized loss on investments
 Currency translation adjustments
 Minimum pension liability adjustment
Total comprehensive income
Purchase of stock                                             (3,929)           (393)     (124,538)
Cash dividends on common stock
Issuance of restricted shares, net                               842              84        27,469
Employee stock plan (ESIP) shares                                436              44        14,323
Proceeds from issuance of put options                                                        6,954
Exercise of options and other                                    408              41        16,110
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ------------
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002                                  258,555          25,856       598,196
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ------------
Net income
Other comprehensive income:
 Net unrealized gains on investments
 Currency translation adjustments
 Minimum pension liability adjustment
Total comprehensive income
Purchase of stock                                            (15,275)         (1,528)     (574,153)
Cash dividends on common stock
Issuance of restricted shares, net                               913              91        28,282
Employee stock plan (ESIP) shares                                524              52        16,785
Net put option premiums and settlements                                                      1,335
Reclassification of put options to liability                                                (7,289)
Exercise of options and other                                  1,215             122        44,868
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ------------
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2003                                  245,932         $24,593      $108,024
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ------------
                                                                     [Table continued on next page]

                  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>

                                       49
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                                                                               [Table continued from previous page]
(IN THOUSANDS)                                                               ACCUMULATED
                                                                                    OTHER           TOTAL          TOTAL
AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED                        RETAINED               COMPREHENSIVE   STOCKHOLDERS'   COMPREHENSIVE
SEPTEMBER 30, 2003, 2002, AND 2001                   EARNINGS       OTHER   INCOME (LOSS)          EQUITY         INCOME
---------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- ---------------- --------------
<S>                                                <C>             <C>            <C>          <C>              <C>
BALANCE, OCTOBER 1, 2000                           $2,932,166      $(3,422)       $12,376      $2,965,493
Net income                                            484,721                                     484,721       $484,721
Other comprehensive income:
 Net unrealized loss on investments                                               (58,170)        (58,170)       (58,170)
 Currency translation adjustments                                                  (3,247)         (3,247)        (3,247)
                                                                                                            --------------
Total comprehensive income                                                                                      $423,304
Purchase of stock                                      (8,255)                                   (172,113)
Cash dividends on common stock                        (65,653)                                    (65,653)
Issuance of restricted shares, net                                   3,422                         35,806
Employee stock plan (ESIP) shares                                                                  13,113
Stock issued to acquire Fiduciary Trust                                                           775,787
Exercise of options and other                                                                       2,159
---------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- ---------------- --------------
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2001                         3,342,979          --         (49,041)      3,977,896
---------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- ---------------- --------------
Net income                                            432,723                                     432,723       $432,723
Other comprehensive income:
 Net unrealized loss on investments                                                (4,084)         (4,084)        (4,084)
 Currency translation adjustments                                                    (837)           (837)          (837)
 Minimum pension liability adjustment                                              (5,780)         (5,780)        (5,780)
                                                                                                             -------------
Total comprehensive income                                                                                      $422,022
Purchase of stock                                                                                (124,931)
Cash dividends on common stock                        (73,066)                                    (73,066)
Issuance of restricted shares, net                                                                 27,553
Employee stock plan (ESIP) shares                                                                  14,367
Proceeds from issuance of put options                                                               6,954
Exercise of options and other                                                                      16,151
---------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- ---------------- --------------
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002                         3,702,636          --         (59,742)      4,266,946
---------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- ---------------- --------------
Net income                                            502,830                                     502,830       $502,830
Other comprehensive income:
 Net unrealized gains on investments                                               72,222          72,222         72,222
 Currency translation adjustments                                                  30,727          30,727         30,727
 Minimum pension liability adjustment                                               4,640           4,640          4,640
                                                                                                            ------------
Total comprehensive income                                                                                      $610,419
Purchase of stock                                                                                (575,681)
Cash dividends on common stock                        (75,822)                                    (75,822)
Issuance of restricted shares, net                                                                 28,373
Employee stock plan (ESIP) shares                                                                  16,837
Net put option premiums and settlements                                                             1,335
Reclassification of put options to liability                                                       (7,289)
Exercise of options and other                                                                      44,990
---------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- ---------------- --------------
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2003                        $4,129,644          $--        $47,847      $4,310,108
---------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- ---------------- --------------
                                   See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>

                                       50
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(IN THOUSANDS)
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                                 2003             2002            2001
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>              <C>              <C>
NET INCOME                                                                    $502,830         $432,723        $484,721
ADJUSTMENTS TO RECONCILE NET INCOME TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING
  ACTIVITIES:
(Increase) decrease in receivables, prepaid expenses and other                 (49,205)          66,266         (88,360)
Net advances of deferred sales commissions                                    (158,942)        (102,092)        (86,305)
Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities                                50,643           (4,705)          5,517
(Decrease) increase in deferred income taxes and taxes payable                 (20,894)          72,025         (21,038)
Increase (decrease) in commissions payable                                      14,526           (2,485)          6,552
Increase in accrued compensation and benefits                                   30,367           26,655          54,056
Depreciation and amortization                                                  177,420          183,121         223,846
Losses (gains) on asset disposal, net and other                                  1,280            5,224         (45,687)
Other-than-temporary decline in investments value                                   --           60,068              --
September 11, 2001 asset write-offs                                                 --               --          19,885
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES                                      548,025          736,800         553,187
Purchase of investments                                                     (2,344,548)      (1,502,820)       (947,615)
Liquidation of investments                                                   1,977,077        1,284,557         463,276
Purchase of banking/finance investments                                       (275,407)        (273,099)       (103,872)
Liquidation of banking/finance investments                                     439,264          209,678         187,082
Net proceeds from securitization of loans receivable                           442,961          558,082         139,295
Net origination of loans receivable                                           (471,234)        (426,386)       (294,557)
Additions of property and equipment                                            (52,653)         (53,062)       (107,326)
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment                                     2,494            9,569          10,392
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired                                  --          (51,779)        (99,058)
Insurance proceeds related to September 11, 2001 event                          10,643           28,562              --
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES                                         (271,403)        (216,698)       (752,383)
(Decrease) increase in bank deposits                                           (99,588)           9,963          67,297
Exercise of common stock options                                                43,435           17,047           2,158
Net put option premiums and settlements                                          1,335            6,059              --
Dividends paid on common stock                                                 (75,441)         (71,778)        (63,471)
Purchase of stock                                                             (575,681)        (124,931)       (172,113)
Increase in debt                                                               523,627          103,794         711,847
Payments on debt                                                               (23,218)         (75,859)       (496,320)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET CASH (USED IN) PROVIDED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES                           (203,531)        (135,705)         49,398
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                73,091          384,397        (149,798)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                                   980,604          596,207         746,005
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR                                      $1,053,695         $980,604        $596,207
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION
Cash paid during the year for:
   Interest, including banking/finance group interest except
     inter-segment interest                                                    $19,260          $16,746         $17,746
Income taxes                                                                   142,799          125,083         148,268
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-CASH INFORMATION
Value of common stock issued, primarily restricted stock                       $28,465          $28,009         $28,640
Value of common stock issued to acquire Fiduciary Trust                             --               --         775,786
Fair value of Fiduciary Trust assets acquired                                       --               --       1,538,084
Fair value of Fiduciary Trust liabilities acquired                                  --               --         757,722
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>

                                       51
<PAGE>


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

We derive the majority of our revenues and net income from providing  investment
management,  administration,  distribution and related services to the Franklin,
Templeton, Mutual Series, Bissett and Fiduciary Trust funds, institutional, high
net-worth  and other  investment  products,  collectively  called our  sponsored
investment products.  Services to our sponsored investment products are provided
under  contracts  that set forth the level and  nature of the fees to be charged
for these services.  The majority of our revenues relate to mutual fund products
that are subject to  contracts  that are  periodically  reviewed and approved by
each  mutual  fund's  Board  of  Directors/Trustees   and/or  its  shareholders.
Currently, no single sponsored investment product's revenues represent more than
10% of total revenues.

BASIS OF  PRESENTATION.  The consolidated  financial  statements are prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
America, which require us to estimate certain amounts. Actual amounts may differ
from these  estimates.  Certain  comparative  amounts  for prior years have been
reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2003 financial statement presentation.

The  consolidated   financial   statements  include  the  accounts  of  Franklin
Resources,   Inc.  and  its  subsidiaries   ("Franklin  Templeton  Investments")
consolidated  under Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board ("FASB")  Accounting
Research   Bulletin  No.  51  "Consolidated   Financial   Statements"  and  FASB
Interpretation  No. 46,  "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (see Note
2). All material  inter-company  accounts and transactions  have been eliminated
except that we have not eliminated the receivable from banking/finance group and
payable to parent from our consolidated  balance sheets which represent balances
outstanding  related to the funding of banking  activities,  including  auto and
credit card loan  financing.  In addition,  the related  inter-company  interest
expense is included in other, net revenue and the inter-company  interest income
is included in  investment  and other income in our  consolidated  statements of
income (see Note 20). This treatment provides additional  information on funding
sources available to the banking/finance group and on its operations.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks, debt
instruments  with  maturities of three months or less from the purchase date and
other highly liquid investments, including money market funds, which are readily
convertible into cash.

INVESTMENT  SECURITIES,  TRADING are carried at fair value with  changes in fair
value recognized in our consolidated net income.  Trading  securities  relate to
securities held by sponsored  investment products that have been consolidated in
our financial  statements under FASB  Interpretation  No. 46,  "Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities" (see Note 2).

INVESTMENT SECURITIES, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE are carried at fair value. Fair values
for  investments  in our  sponsored  investment  products  are based on the last
reported net asset  value.  Fair values for other  investments  are based on the
last reported price on the exchange on which they are traded. Realized gains and
losses  are  included  in  investment   income   currently   based  on  specific
identification.  Unrealized  gains and losses are recorded net of tax as part of
accumulated other comprehensive income until realized.

When the cost of an investment  exceeds its fair value, we review the investment
for an  other-than-temporary  decline in value. In making the  determination  of
whether the decline is  other-than-temporary,  we use a  systematic  methodology
that includes  consideration  of the duration and extent to which the fair value
is less than cost, the financial  condition of the investee,  including industry
and sector performance,  and our intent and ability to hold the investment. When
a decline in fair value of an  available-for-sale  security is  determined to be
other-than-temporary,  the  unrealized  loss recorded net of tax in  accumulated
other comprehensive income is realized as a charge to net income.

DERIVATIVES. Generally, we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes.  Periodically, we enter into interest-rate swap agreements
to reduce variable  interest-rate exposure with respect to our commercial paper,
designated  as cash flow hedges,  and to hedge  exposures or modify the interest
rate  characteristics of fixed-rate  borrowings with maturities in excess of one
year,  designated  as fair value  hedges.  As of  September  30,  2003,  we held
interest rate swaps with a total  notional  amount of $43 million and these were
reported at their fair value of $2.6 million.


                                       52
<PAGE>

We periodically  enter into spot and forward currency  contracts as principal to
facilitate client transactions and, on limited occasions,  hold currency options
for our own account.  It is our policy that  substantially all forward contracts
be  covered  no later than the close of  business  each day.  Gains or losses on
these  contracts are  reflected in the  consolidated  statements of income.  The
gross fair market value of all  contracts  outstanding  that had a positive fair
market  value  totaled $2.9 million at  September  30, 2003.  This  represents a
credit  exposure  to  the  extent  that  counterparties  fail  to  settle  their
contractual  obligations.  This risk is mitigated  by the use of master  netting
agreements, careful evaluation of counterparty credit standings, diversification
and limits.

From time to time,  we sell put options  giving the  purchaser the right to sell
shares of our  common  stock to us at a  specified  price upon  exercise  of the
options on the designated  expiration  dates if certain  conditions are met. The
likelihood  that we will have to purchase  our stock and the  purchase  price is
contingent on the market value of our stock when the put option contract becomes
exercisable.  At September 30, 2003,  there were  approximately  1.9 million put
options outstanding.  These options expire in December 2003 and January 2004 and
have an average exercise price of $34. All of these options were issued prior to
June 1, 2003, and through June 30, 2003 were treated as equity instruments.  The
related  premium  received  was recorded in  stockholders'  equity as capital in
excess of par value.  Beginning in July 2003,  these put options were recognized
as liabilities  and carried at fair value in our books and records in accordance
with SFAS 150 (see Note 2). We  recognized  total gains of $6.9 million from put
options in investment  and other income in fiscal 2003,  including  $4.6 million
related  to the  cumulative  effect  of a  change  in  accounting  principle  on
adoption, and $1.9 million in realized gains when 1.0 million options expired in
July 2003.

LOANS RECEIVABLE.  Our banking/finance  group offers retail-banking and consumer
lending services.  We accrue interest on loans using the simple interest method.
The majority of retail-banking  loans are at variable rates,  which are adjusted
periodically. Loans originated and intended for sale are carried at the lower of
cost or estimated fair value in the aggregate.  Net unrealized  losses,  if any,
are recognized through a valuation allowance included in other, net revenues.

ALLOWANCE  FOR LOAN LOSSES.  An allowance  for loan losses on our consumer  loan
portfolio is maintained at a level sufficient to absorb probable losses inherent
in the loan  portfolio.  Probable  losses are  estimated  for the consumer  loan
portfolio   based  on  contractual   delinquency   status  and  historical  loss
experience.  The  allowance  on our consumer  portfolio  is based on  aggregated
portfolio segment evaluations, generally by loan type, and reflects our judgment
of  portfolio  risk  factors  such as economic  conditions,  bankruptcy  trends,
product  mix,  geographic  concentrations  and other  similar  items.  A loan is
charged to the allowance for loan losses when it is deemed to be  uncollectible,
taking into consideration the value of the collateral,  the financial  condition
of the borrower and other factors. Recoveries on loans previously charged-off as
uncollectible  are credited to the allowance for loan losses.  The allowance for
loan  losses on our auto  loan  portfolio  includes  a  portion  of  acquisition
discounts from our purchase of automobile  installment loan contracts,  commonly
referred to as dealer holdbacks.  This allocation represents our estimate of the
losses expected over the life of the loan.

We have not recorded an allowance for probable loan losses on our retail-banking
loans and advances as these loans are generally  payable on demand and are fully
secured  by assets  under our  custody.  Advances  on  customers'  accounts  are
generally  secured  or  subject to rights of offset  and,  consistent  with past
experience, no loan losses are anticipated.

Past due loans 90 days or more in both our consumer  lending and  retail-banking
portfolios are reviewed  individually to determine whether they are collectible.
If warranted,  after  considering  collateral level and other factors,  loans 90
days  past  due are  placed  on  non-accrual  status.  Interest  collections  on
non-accrual  loans  for  which  the  ultimate  collectibility  of  principal  is
uncertain are applied as principal reductions;  otherwise,  such collections are
credited to income when received.

INVESTMENTS,  OTHER include  investments  that we intend to hold for a period in
excess of one year.

Investments  are  accounted  for using the equity method of accounting if we are
able to exercise  significant  influence,  but not control,  over the  investee.
Significant  influence  is  generally  considered  to  exist  when an  ownership
interest in the voting  stock of the  investee is between 20% and 50%,  although
other factors,  such as  representation on the investee's board of directors and
the impact of commercial arrangements are also considered in determining whether
the equity method of accounting is  appropriate.  Lower  thresholds are used for
our investments in limited  partnerships  in determining  whether we are able to
exercise  significant  influence.


                                       53
<PAGE>

Companies in which we hold in excess of 50% ownership  interest are consolidated
in our  financial  statements.  We are also  required  to  consolidate  variable
interest entities in relation to which we are the primary beneficiary as defined
in FASB  Interpretation  No. 46,  "Consolidation of Variable Interest  Entities"
(see Note 2).

Investments  are  accounted  for  under  the cost  method  if we are not able to
exercise  significant  influence  over the investee.  In addition,  investments,
other  include debt  instruments  carried at fair value in  accordance  with our
treatment  of   investment   securities,   available-for-sale.   These   include
collateralized  debt obligations  ("CDOs"),  which are valued based on cash flow
projections.

Investments, other are adjusted for other-than-temporary declines in value. When
a decline in fair value of an investment  carried at fair value is determined to
be other-than-temporary,  the unrealized loss recorded net of tax in accumulated
other comprehensive income is realized as a charge to net income. When a decline
in  fair  value  of  an   investment   carried  at  cost  is  determined  to  be
other-than-temporary,  the investment is written down to fair value and the loss
in indicated value is included in earnings.

DEFERRED  SALES  COMMISSIONS.  Sales  commissions  paid  to  brokers  and  other
investment  advisors in  connection  with the sale of shares of our mutual funds
sold without a front-end sales charge are capitalized and amortized over periods
not  exceeding  eight years - the periods in which we estimate that they will be
recovered from  distribution  plan payments and from  contingent  deferred sales
charges.

PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT  are  recorded  at  cost  and  are  depreciated  on the
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  Expenditures for repairs
and  maintenance  are charged to expense when  incurred.  We amortize  leasehold
improvements on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter.

SOFTWARE  DEVELOPED FOR INTERNAL USE. Some internal and external  costs incurred
in  connection  with  developing  or  obtaining  software  for  internal use are
capitalized. These capitalized costs are included in property and equipment, net
on our consolidated balance sheets and are amortized beginning when the software
project  is  complete  and the  application  is put  into  production,  over the
estimated useful life of the software.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Intangible assets consist primarily of the
estimated value of mutual fund management  contracts and customer base resulting
from our  acquisition of the assets and  liabilities  of Templeton,  Galbraith &
Hansberger  Ltd. in October 1992 and Heine  Securities  Corporation  in November
1996, as well as the purchase of the following companies:

*    Bissett and Associates  Investment  Management Ltd.  ("Bissett") in October
     2000;
*    Fiduciary Trust Company  International  ("Fiduciary  Trust") in April 2001;
     and
*    Pioneer ITI AMC Limited ("Pioneer") in July 2002.

We amortize intangible assets over their estimated useful lives,  ranging from 5
to 15 years, using the straight-line  method,  unless the asset is determined to
have an indefinite useful life. Amounts assigned to indefinite-lived  intangible
assets primarily  represent the value of contracts to manage mutual fund assets,
for which there is no foreseeable limit on the contract period.

Goodwill  represents  the excess  cost of a business  acquisition  over the fair
value of the net assets  acquired.  In  accordance  with  Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 142,  "Goodwill and Other  Intangible  Assets"  ("SFAS
142"), indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized.

We review goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets when there is an
indication of impairment,  or at least annually,  to determine whether the value
of the assets is impaired.  If an asset is impaired,  the difference between the
carrying  amount of the asset  reflected  on the  financial  statements  and its
current  fair  value is  recognized  as an  expense  in the  period in which the
impairment occurs.

For intangible  assets with indefinite  lives, fair value is determined based on
anticipated discounted cash flows. Goodwill is impaired when the carrying amount
of the reporting  unit exceeds the implied fair value of the reporting  unit. In
estimating  the fair value of the reporting  unit,  we use valuation  techniques
based on  discounted  cash flows  similar to models  employed in  analyzing  the
purchase  price of an  acquisition  target.  Goodwill  has been  assigned to our
investment management operating segment.

                                       54
<PAGE>

Intangible  assets subject to  amortization  are reviewed for impairment at each
reporting period on the basis of the expected future undiscounted operating cash
flows, without interest charges, to be derived from these assets. See Note 9 for
additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets.

DEMAND AND INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS.  The fair value of demand deposits are, by
definition,  equal to their carrying amounts. The interest-bearing  deposits are
variable rate and short-term and,  therefore,  the carrying amounts  approximate
their fair values.

REVENUES. We recognize investment  management fees,  shareholder servicing fees,
investment  income and  distribution  fees as  earned,  over the period in which
services are rendered.  Investment  management  fees are  determined  based on a
percentage of assets under management. Generally, shareholder servicing fees are
calculated  based on the number of  accounts  serviced.  We record  underwriting
commissions  related to the sale of shares of our sponsored  investment products
on the trade date.

ADVERTISING  AND  PROMOTION.  We expense costs of  advertising  and promotion as
incurred.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are
translated at current exchange rates as of the end of the accounting period, and
related revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect
during the period.  Net exchange gains and losses resulting from translation are
excluded from income and are recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive
income.  Foreign currency  transaction  gains and losses are reflected in income
currently.

DIVIDENDS.  For the years ended September 30, 2003,  2002, and 2001, we declared
dividends to common stockholders of $0.30, $0.28 and $0.26 per share.

STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION.  As allowed  under the  provisions  of  Statement  of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  123,   "Accounting   for   Stock-Based
Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), we have elected to apply Accounting Principles Board
Opinion  No.  25,  "Accounting  for Stock  Issued  to  Employees",  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for  our  stock-based  plans.  Accordingly,  no
compensation costs are recognized with respect to stock options granted when the
exercise  price is equal to the market  value of the stock,  or with  respect to
shares issued under the Employee Stock  Investment  Plan ("ESIP").  We recognize
compensation expense for the matching  contribution that we may elect to make in
connection  with the Employee Stock  Investment  Plan over the 18-month  holding
period and for the full cost of  restricted  stock  grants in the year that they
are earned.

If we had determined  compensation costs for our stock option plans and our ESIP
(see  descriptions in Notes 15 and 16) based upon fair values at the grant dates
in accordance  with the  provisions of SFAS 123, our net income and earnings per
share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts  indicated below. For pro
forma  purposes,  the estimated fair value of options was  calculated  using the
Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model and is amortized over the options'  vesting
periods.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                 2003            2002        2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>         <C>
Net income, as reported                                       $502,830        $432,723    $484,721

  Less: additional stock-based compensation expense
    determined under the fair value method, net of tax          65,294          59,339      39,421
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
  PRO FORMA NET INCOME                                        $437,536        $373,384    $445,300
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
  As reported                                                    $1.98           $1.66       $1.92
  Pro forma                                                       1.72            1.43        1.76

DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
  As reported                                                    $1.97           $1.65       $1.91
  Pro forma                                                       1.72            1.42        1.76
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
</TABLE>


                                       55
<PAGE>

The  weighted-average  estimated  fair value of  options  granted on the date of
grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model was as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                 2003           2002          2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
<S>                                                        <C>            <C>           <C>
Weighted-average fair value of options granted                  $14.67         $16.14        $19.58
Assumptions made:
Dividend yield                                                      1%             1%            1%
Expected volatility                                                40%            42%           40%
Risk-free interest rate                                             4%             4%            5%
Expected life                                              3 - 8 years    3 - 6 years   2 - 9 years
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
</TABLE>

ACCUMULATED  OTHER   COMPREHENSIVE   INCOME  is  reported  in  our  consolidated
statements  of  stockholders'  equity and includes net income,  minimum  pension
liability  adjustment,   unrealized  gains  (losses)  on  investment  securities
available-for-sale, net of income taxes and currency translation adjustments.

The changes in net unrealized  gains (losses) on investment  securities  include
reclassification  adjustments  relating to the net realized gains on the sale of
investment  securities  of $9.3 million,  $5.7 million and $34.2 million  during
fiscal 2003,  2002, and 2001.  The tax effect of the change in unrealized  gains
(losses) on investment securities was $28.2 million,  $(1.7) million and $(18.4)
million during fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

EARNINGS PER SHARE.  We computed earnings per share as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)                          2003           2002         2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>          <C>
Net income                                                   $502,830       $432,723     $484,721
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted-average shares outstanding - basic                   253,714        261,239      252,628
Incremental shares from assumed conversions                       967            815        1,035
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted-average shares outstanding - diluted                 254,681        262,054      253,663
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per share:
  Basic                                                         $1.98          $1.66        $1.92
  Diluted                                                       $1.97          $1.65        $1.91
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 2 - NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In January  2003,  the FASB  issued  Interpretation  No. 46,  "Consolidation  of
Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46"). Under FIN 46, a variable interest entity
("VIE") is defined as a  corporation,  trust,  partnership or other entity where
the equity investment holders have not contributed sufficient capital to finance
the activities of the VIE or the equity  investment  holders do not have defined
rights and obligations  normally  associated with an equity  investment.  FIN 46
requires  consolidation  of a VIE by the enterprise that has the majority of the
risks and rewards of ownership, referred to as the primary beneficiary. See Note
14 for a  discussion  of the  impact of FIN 46 on our  consolidated  results  of
operation and financial position.

In April 2003,  Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 149, "Amendment
of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 149"),
was issued. SFAS 149 amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for
derivative  instruments,  including certain derivative  instruments  embedded in
other  contracts and for hedging  activities  under FASB  Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities".  SFAS 149 is effective for contracts entered into or modified after
June 30, 2003, and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The
adoption  of SFAS  149 did not have a  significant  impact  on our  consolidated
operating results or financial position.

                                       56
<PAGE>

In May 2003,  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 150, "Accounting
for Certain Financial  Instruments with  Characteristics of both Liabilities and
Equity" ("SFAS 150"), was issued.  SFAS 150 clarifies the accounting for certain
financial  instruments with  characteristics  of both liabilities and equity and
requires that these  instruments  be classified as  liabilities in statements of
financial position. SFAS 150 was effective immediately for financial instruments
entered into or modified  after May 31, 2003,  and for interim or annual periods
beginning after June 15, 2003 for transactions entered into before June 1, 2003.
The adoption of SFAS 150,  which  affected  our  treatment of put options on our
stock, did not have a significant  impact on our consolidated  operating results
or financial position.

NOTE 3 - ACQUISITIONS

On October 1, 2003, we completed the  acquisition  of the remaining  interest in
Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd. and Darby Overseas Partners, L.P. (collectively
"Darby"),  in  which  we  formerly  held a  12.7%  interest,  for an  additional
investment  of  approximately  $75.9  million  in  cash,  and  we  recorded  the
transaction  as of this date.  The excess of the purchase  price,  including our
acquisition  costs,  over the fair value of the net assets acquired  resulted in
goodwill of  approximately  $37.0  million and we  recognized  other  intangible
assets  of  approximately  $3.4  million.  At  September  30,  2003,  Darby  had
approximately  $0.9  billion  in assets  under  management  relating  to private
equity, mezzanine and emerging markets fixed-income products.

On July 26, 2002, our 75% owned subsidiary,  Templeton Asset Management  (India)
Private Limited,  acquired all of the issued and outstanding  shares of Pioneer,
an Indian  investment  management  company  with  approximately  $0.8 billion in
assets under  management as of the purchase date. This all-cash  transaction was
valued at approximately  $55.4 million.  Our consolidated  financial  statements
include the  operating  results of Pioneer  from July 26,  2002.  We  recognized
goodwill of $38.7  million and  indefinite-lived  management  contracts of $13.1
million from this acquisition.

On April 10, 2001, we acquired  Fiduciary Trust. Each share of Fiduciary Trust's
common stock was exchanged  for 2.7744 shares of our common stock,  resulting in
the issuance in the aggregate of approximately  20,187,000  shares of our common
stock.  The value of the  shares  issued in  exchange  for  Fiduciary  Trust was
approximately  $775.8  million.  We  accounted  for this  transaction  using the
purchase method of accounting.  The excess of the purchase price,  including our
acquisition  costs,  over the fair value of the net assets acquired  resulted in
goodwill of $559.5 million. Net assets acquired included $235.5 million of other
intangible  assets.  As of September 30, 2001,  we wrote off the net  intangible
asset  related to  Fiduciary  Trust's  headquarters  lease of $8.2  million as a
result of the September 11, 2001  terrorist  attack.  See Note 19. The estimated
life of the other intangible assets is 15 years.

On October 2, 2000,  we  acquired  all of the issued and  outstanding  shares of
Bissett,  a Canadian asset  management  company.  The all-cash  transaction  was
valued at approximately  $95 million.  Intangible  assets of  approximately  $89
million with lives  ranging from 15 to 40 years were recorded as a result of the
acquisition.  We accounted for this transaction  using the purchase method.  Our
consolidated  financial statements include the operating results of Bissett from
October 2, 2000.

We have  not  presented  proforma  combined  results  of  operations  for  these
acquisitions,  because the results of operations as reported in the accompanying
consolidated statements of income would not have been materially different.

NOTE 4 - CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash  equivalents  at  September  30, 2003 and 2002,  consisted  of the
following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                                   2003         2002
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------
<S>                                                                        <C>            <C>
Cash and due from banks                                                      $260,530     $224,214
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell          3,741       82,150
Other                                                                         789,424      674,240
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------
TOTAL                                                                      $1,053,695     $980,604
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------
</TABLE>

                                       57
<PAGE>


Cash and cash  equivalents,  other includes money market mutual fund investments
and U.S.  Treasury  bills.  Federal  Reserve Board  regulations  require reserve
balances on deposits to be maintained  with the Federal Reserve Banks by banking
subsidiaries.  The required  reserve  balance was $1.5 million at September  30,
2003 and $5.3 million at September 30, 2002.

NOTE 5 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS

Investment  securities  at  September  30,  2003  and  2002,  consisted  of  the
following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                     AMORTIZED      GROSS UNREALIZED          FAIR
(IN THOUSANDS)                                            COST      GAINS     LOSSES         VALUE
-------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------------ ----------- ------------
<S>                                                 <C>           <C>       <C>         <C>
2003
INVESTMENT SECURITIES, TRADING                         $39,903     $1,510       $(34)      $41,379
INVESTMENT SECURITIES, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE
Sponsored investment products                          412,414     20,392     (7,634)      425,172
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions    11,423        593         --        12,016
Securities of U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and
  other                                              1,375,087      6,940     (1,132)    1,380,895
Equities                                                20,953        561       (656)       20,858
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- ------------
  Total investment securities, available-for-sale    1,819,877     28,486     (9,422)    1,838,941
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- ------------
TOTAL INVESTMENTS, TRADING AND AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE   $1,859,780    $29,996    $(9,456)   $1,880,320
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- ------------
INVESTMENTS, OTHER
Investment in equity-method investees                  $77,919        $--         $--       $77,919
Equities and other                                     170,885     31,978       (426)      202,437
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- ------------
TOTAL INVESTMENTS, OTHER                              $248,804    $31,978      $(426)     $280,356
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- ------------

2002
INVESTMENT SECURITIES, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE
Sponsored investment products                         $421,612     $7,309   $(66,888)     $362,033
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions    10,758        597         --        11,355
Securities of U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and
  other                                              1,159,126     18,058         --     1,177,184
Equities                                                 1,264      1,269        (13)        2,520
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- -------------
TOTAL                                               $1,592,760    $27,233   $(66,901)   $1,553,092
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- -------------
INVESTMENTS, OTHER
Investment in equity-method investees                  $65,347        $--        $--       $65,347
Equities and other                                     189,008     18,702     (9,130)      198,580
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- -------------
TOTAL                                                 $254,355    $18,702    $(9,130)     $263,927
-------------------------------------------------- ------------- ---------- ----------- -------------
</TABLE>

Investments,  other included  investments that we intend to hold for a period in
excess of one year.  Investments in equity method investees  include  investment
partnerships where we have significant influence. Equities and other investments
include debt,  including  CDOs, and other  securities  with a determinable  fair
value as well as investments carried at cost.

Gross unrealized losses on investment securities, available-for-sale and
investments, other at September 30, 2003 were deemed to be temporary in nature.
See Note 1 for a description of our investments valuation methodology.

As of September 30, 2003 and 2002,  banking/finance operating segment investment
securities  with  aggregate  book values of $28.4 million and $19.5 million were
pledged as  collateral  as  required  by federal  and state  regulators  and the
Federal Home Loan Bank.

                                       58
<PAGE>

At September 30, 2003, maturities of securities of the U.S. Treasury and federal
agencies and the U.S. states and political subdivisions were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                       AMORTIZED COST    FAIR VALUE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECURITIES OF U.S. TREASURY AND FEDERAL AGENCIES
<S>                                                                      <C>            <C>
Due in one year or less                                                  $1,056,963     $1,057,495
Due after one year through five years                                       111,417        116,711
Due after five years through ten years                                           --             --
Due after ten years                                                         206,707        206,689
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TOTAL                                                                  $1,375,087     $1,380,895
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECURITIES OF U.S. STATES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS
Due in one year or less                                                      $1,578         $1,597
Due after one year through five years                                         6,584          6,988
Due after five years through ten years                                        2,767          2,901
Due after ten years                                                             494            529
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TOTAL                                                                     $11,423        $12,016
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 6 - LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

A  summary  of  banking/finance  operating  segment  loans  receivable  by major
category  as of  September  30,  2003  and  2002 is  shown  below.  Included  in
installment  loans to individuals  are auto and credit card  receivables.  Other
loans  include  secured  loans made to  Fiduciary  Trust  clients.  No loan loss
allowance is recognized on Fiduciary Trust's  retail-banking  loans and advances
as described in Note 1.
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                                2003           2002
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                       <C>            <C>
Commercial                                                                 $60,541        $67,772
Real estate (subject to collateral)                                         67,598         99,935
Installment loans to individuals                                           190,754        158,159
Other                                                                      160,329        127,506
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Loans receivable                                                           479,222        453,372
Less: allowance for loan losses                                             (8,550)        (9,034)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LOANS RECEIVABLE, NET                                                     $470,672       $444,338
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

At September 30, 2003, real estate  (subject to collateral)  loans included $3.0
millions  of loans  held for  sale,  which are  carried  at the lower of cost or
estimated fair value in the aggregate.

Maturities of loans at September 30, 2003 were as follows:
<TABLE>

                                                           AFTER 1
                                        ONE YEAR OR      THROUGH 5         AFTER 5
(IN THOUSANDS)                                 LESS          YEARS           YEARS          TOTAL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>              <C>           <C>
Commercial                                  $60,541            $--             $--        $60,541
Real estate (subject to collateral)              20          4,487          63,091         67,598
Installment loans to individuals             62,844        112,603          15,307        190,754
Other                                       148,126         12,203              --        160,329
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                      $271,531       $129,293         $78,398       $479,222
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       59
<PAGE>

The following  table  summarizes  contractual  maturities of loans due after one
year by repricing characteristic at September 30, 2003:

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                   CARRYING AMOUNT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Loans at predetermined interest rates                                   $133,172
Loans at floating or adjustable rates                                     74,519
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                                                   $207,691
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changes in the allowance for loan losses during 2003 and 2002 were as follows:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                                2003           2002
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                        <C>            <C>
Balance, beginning of year                                                  $9,034         $9,568
Provision for loan losses                                                   13,423         13,890
Charge-offs                                                                 (8,046)        (8,639)
Recoveries                                                                   2,393          1,845
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total allowance for loan losses before other adjustments                  16,804         16,664
Loans securitized                                                          (12,020)       (10,903)
Dealer holdback and other                                                    3,766          3,273
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, END OF YEAR                                                        $8,550         $9,034
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Total net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average total loans            1.23%          1.38%
Allowance as a percentage of total loans                                     1.78%          1.99%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The following is a summary of delinquency information for fiscal 2003, 2002, and
2001:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                2003            2002           2001
------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- --------------
<S>                                                        <C>                <C>            <C>
Commercial loans, 90 days or more delinquent               $13,063            $300           $300
Installment loans, 90 days or more delinquent                  897             750            292
Non-accrual loans                                              510             439            306
------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- --------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 7 - SECURITIZATION OF LOANS RECEIVABLE

From time to time,  we enter  into auto loan  securitization  transactions  with
qualified  special purpose entities and record these  transactions as sales. The
following table shows details of auto loan  securitization  transactions for the
years ended September 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                2003            2002           2001
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>            <C>
Gross sale proceeds                                       $464,372        $565,154       $145,385
Net carrying amount of loans sold                          446,672         544,831        142,541
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRE-TAX GAIN                                               $17,700         $20,323         $2,844
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

When  we  sell  auto  loans  in  a  securitization  transaction,  we  record  an
interest-only strip receivable.  The interest-only  strip receivable  represents
our  contractual  right to receive  interest from the pool of securitized  loans
after the payment of required  amounts to holders of the  securities and certain
other costs associated with the securitization. Gross sales proceeds include the
fair value of the interest-only strips.


                                       60
<PAGE>

We generally  estimate fair value based on the present value of future  expected
cash flows.  The key assumptions  used in the present value  calculations of our
securitization transactions at the date of securitization were as follows:
<TABLE>

                                                                2003            2002         2001
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>                <C>
Excess cash flow discount rate (annual rate)                   12.0%           12.0%        12.0%
Cumulative life loss rate                                3.7% / 4.3%     3.3% / 3.8%         3.5%
Pre-payment speed assumption (average monthly rate)             1.8%            1.5%         1.5%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

We  determined  these  assumptions  using  data  from  comparable  transactions,
historical   information  and   management's   estimate.   Interest-only   strip
receivables  are  generally  restricted  assets and subject to limited  recourse
provisions.

We  generally  estimate  the fair  value  of the  interest-only  strips  at each
period-end based on the present value of future expected cash flows,  consistent
with the methodology used at the date of securitization. The following shows, as
of  September  30, 2003 and  September  30,  2002,  the  carrying  value and the
sensitivity  of the  interest-only  strip  receivable  to  hypothetical  adverse
changes in the key economic assumptions used to measure fair value:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                                  2003        2002
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                          <C>         <C>
CARRYING AMOUNT/FAIR VALUE OF INTEREST-ONLY STRIPS                           $36,010     $29,088

EXCESS CASH FLOW DISCOUNT RATE (ANNUAL RATE)                                   12.0%       12.0%
   Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change                                  $(493)      $(400)
   Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change                                  $(971)      $(789)

CUMULATIVE LIFE LOSS RATE                                                       3.9%        3.6%
   Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change                                $(2,412)    $(1,787)
   Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change                                $(4,725)    $(3,579)

PRE-PAYMENT SPEED ASSUMPTION (AVERAGE MONTHLY RATE)                             1.8%        1.7%
   Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change                                $(3,505)    $(2,632)
   Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change                                $(7,501)    $(5,155)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Actual  future  market  conditions  may  differ  materially.  Accordingly,  this
sensitivity  analysis  should not be considered our projections of future events
or losses.

We receive annual servicing fees ranging from 1% to 2% of the loans  securitized
for services we provide to the securitization trusts. We also receive the rights
to future cash flows, if any, arising after the investors in the  securitization
trust have received their contracted return.

The   following  is  a  summary  of  cash  flows   received  from  and  paid  to
securitization trusts during fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                  2003            2002        2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>              <C>         <C>
Servicing fees received                                      $10,598          $7,921      $4,538

Other cash flows received                                     18,283          15,375       7,401

Purchase of loans from trusts                                (10,804)         (8,659)       (521)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Amounts payable to the trustee related to loan principal and interest  collected
on behalf of the trusts of $34.4  million  as of  September  30,  2003 and $24.9
million  as  of  September  30,  2002  are  included  in  other  banking/finance
liabilities.

                                       61
<PAGE>

The securitized  loan portfolio that we manage and the related  delinquencies as
of September 30, 2003 and September 30, 2002 were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                  2003        2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Securitized loans held by securitization trusts             $680,695    $530,896
Delinquencies                                                 12,911       9,317
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net charge-offs on the securitized  loan portfolios were $12.6 million in fiscal
2003, $6.5 million in fiscal 2002 and $3.5 million in fiscal 2001.

NOTE 8 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

The  following is a summary of property and  equipment at September 30, 2003 and
2002:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                            USEFUL LIVES
                                                              IN YEARS            2003        2002
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                             <C>           <C>         <C>
Furniture, software and equipment                                3 - 5        $558,435    $526,256
Premises and leasehold improvements                             5 - 35         207,191     195,024
Land                                                                --          71,383      66,923
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
                                                                               837,009     788,203
Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization                               (480,237)   (394,031)
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET                                                   $356,772    $394,172
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
</TABLE>

NOTE 9 - GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets at September 30, 2003 and September 30, 2002 were as follows:
<TABLE>

                                                                GROSS                         NET
                                                             CARRYING      ACCUMULATED   CARRYING
(IN THOUSANDS)                                                 AMOUNT     AMORTIZATION     AMOUNT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>              <C>        <C>
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2003
Amortized intangible assets:
   Customer base                                             $232,800         $(39,057)  $193,743
   Other                                                       31,546          (19,653)    11,893
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              264,346          (58,710)   205,636

Non-amortized intangible assets:
   Management contracts                                       478,645              --     478,645
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                                        $742,991         $(58,710)  $684,281
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002
Amortized intangible assets:
   Customer base                                             $231,935         $(23,358)  $208,577
   Other                                                       31,546          (18,181)    13,365
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              263,481          (41,539)   221,942
Non-amortized intangible assets:
   Management contracts                                       475,304              --     475,304
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                                        $738,785         $(41,539)  $697,246
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       62
<PAGE>

The change in the carrying  amount of goodwill  during the year ended  September
30, 2003 was as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, October 1, 2002                                              $1,321,939
Foreign currency movements                                                13,578
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, SEPTEMBER 30, 2003                                           $1,335,517
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 141,  "Business
Combinations"  ("SFAS  141") and SFAS 142 on October 1, 2001.  SFAS 141 and SFAS
142  address  the initial  recognition  and  measurement  of  intangible  assets
acquired and the recognition  and  measurement of goodwill and other  intangible
assets  after   acquisition.   Under  the  new   standards,   all  goodwill  and
indefinite-lived  intangible  assets,  including  those acquired  before initial
application  of the  standards,  will not be  amortized  but will be tested  for
impairment  at least  annually.  Accordingly,  on  October  1,  2001,  we ceased
amortization on goodwill and indefinite-lived assets.

The  following  table  reflects our results as though we had adopted SFAS 142 on
October 1, 2000.
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                2003            2002          2001
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>             <C>           <C>
Net income as reported                                       $502,830        $432,723      $484,721
Goodwill amortization                                              --              --        29,443
Indefinite-lived intangibles amortization                          --              --        13,152
Tax effect at effective tax rate                                   --              --       (10,223)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET INCOME AS ADJUSTED                                       $502,830        $432,723      $517,093
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share as reported                            $1.98           $1.66         $1.92
Diluted earnings per share as reported                          $1.97           $1.65         $1.91
Basic earnings per share as adjusted                            $1.98           $1.66         $2.05
Diluted earnings per share as adjusted                          $1.97           $1.65         $2.04
</TABLE>

All of our goodwill and  intangible  assets,  including  those  arising from the
purchase of Fiduciary Trust in April 2001,  relate to our investment  management
operating  segment.  Indefinite-lived  intangible  assets represent the value of
management contracts with our sponsored investment products.

Estimated amortization expense for each of the next 5 fiscal years is as
follows:

 (IN THOUSANDS)                               FOR THE YEARS ENDING SEPTEMBER 30,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 2004                                                                    $16,991
 2005                                                                     16,991
 2006                                                                     16,991
 2007                                                                     16,991
 2008                                                                     16,991
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of March 31,  2003,  we  completed  the  impairment  testing of goodwill  and
indefinite-lived intangible assets under the guidance set out in SFAS 142 and we
determined   that  there  was  no  impairment  in  the  value  of  goodwill  and
indefinite-lived assets recorded in our books and records as of October 1, 2002.


                                       63
<PAGE>

NOTE 10 - DEPOSITS

Deposits at September 30, 2003 and 2002 were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                  2003        2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOMESTIC
Interest-bearing                                            $570,854    $670,448
Noninterest-bearing                                           41,337      45,332
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total domestic deposits                                      612,191     715,780
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FOREIGN
Interest-bearing                                              12,893      12,725
Noninterest-bearing                                            8,899       5,066
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total foreign deposits                                        21,792      17,791
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                                       $633,983    $733,571
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Maturities of time certificates in amounts of $100,000 or more at September 30,
2003 were:

(IN THOUSANDS)                              DOMESTIC
                                              (U.S.)         FOREIGN       TOTAL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3 months or less                              $5,303         $12,893     $18,196
Over 3 months through 6 months                 1,080              --       1,080
Over 6 months through 12 months                  298              --         298
Over 12 months                                   893              --         893
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                         $7,574         $12,893     $20,467
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 11 - DEBT

Outstanding  debt at September 30, 2003 and September 30, 2002  consisted of the
following:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                       2003                     2002
                                                                 WEIGHTED                 WEIGHTED
                                                                  AVERAGE                  AVERAGE
                                                        2003         RATE        2002         RATE
------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------ ----------- ------------
<S>                                               <C>               <C>      <C>             <C>
CURRENT:
Federal funds purchased                                  $--        1.49%         $--        1.57%
Federal Home Loan Bank advances                       14,500        1.19%       8,500        1.94%
Current maturities of long-term debt                     287                    7,830
------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------ ----------- ------------
                                                      14,787                   16,330
NON-CURRENT:
Convertible Notes (including accrued interest)       520,325        1.88%     514,190        1.88%
Medium Term Notes                                    420,000        3.70%          --          N/A
Other                                                168,556                   80,958
------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------ ----------- ------------
                                                   1,108,881                  595,148
------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------ ----------- ------------
TOTAL DEBT                                        $1,123,668                 $611,478
------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------ ----------- ------------
</TABLE>

Federal  funds  purchased  and Federal  Home Loan Bank  advances are included in
other liabilities of the banking/finance operating segment. Other long-term debt
consists primarily of deferred  commission  liability  recognized in relation to
U.S.  deferred  commission  assets financed by Lightning Finance Company Limited
("LFL")  that  were  not  sold  by LFL  in a  securitization  transaction  as of
September 30, 2003 and September 30, 2002.


                                       64
<PAGE>

As of September 30, 2003, maturities of long-term debt were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                   CARRYING AMOUNT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2004                                                                     $22,450
2005                                                                      22,913
2006                                                                      23,387
2007                                                                      23,871
2008                                                                     444,365
Thereafter                                                               571,895
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL LONG-TERM DEBT                                                  $1,108,881
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In April 2003,  we completed  the sale of  five-year  senior notes due April 15,
2008 totaling $420.0 million (the "Medium Term Notes").  The senior notes, which
were offered to qualified  institutional  buyers only, carry an interest rate of
3.7% and are not redeemable  prior to maturity by either us or the note holders.
Interest payments are due semi-annually.

In May 2001, we received  approximately  $490.0 million in net proceeds from the
sale of $877.0 million  principal amount at maturity of zero-coupon  convertible
senior notes due 2031 (the "Convertible  Notes").  The Convertible  Notes, which
were offered to qualified  institutional  buyers only, carry an interest rate of
1.875% per annum, with an initial  conversion premium of 43%. Each of the $1,000
(principal  amount at maturity)  Convertible  Notes is  convertible  into 9.3604
shares of our common stock. We may redeem the  Convertible  Notes for cash on or
after May 11, 2006 at their  accreted  value.  On May 12, 2003, at the option of
the holders, we repurchased  Convertible Notes with a face value of $5.9 million
principal  amount at maturity,  for $3.5 million in cash,  the accreted value of
the notes as of May 11, 2003. We may have to repurchase the Convertible Notes at
their accreted  value,  at the option of the holders,  on May 11 of 2004,  2006,
2011,  2016,  2021 and 2026.  In this event,  we may choose to pay the  purchase
price in cash or shares of our common  stock.  The amount of  Convertible  Notes
that will be redeemed  depends on, among other factors,  the  performance of our
common stock.

At September 30, 2003, approximately $500.0 million was available to us under an
unused  commercial paper program and an additional  $300.0 million was available
to us under shelf  registration  statements  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission permitting the issuance of debt and equity securities.

Our committed  revolving credit  facilities at September 30, 2003 totaled $420.0
million,  of which,  $210.0 million was under a 364-day facility.  The remaining
$210.0 million facility was under a five-year  facility that will expire in June
2007. The agreements  related to the revolving credit facilities include various
restrictive  covenants,  including:  a capitalization  ratio,  interest coverage
ratio,  minimum working capital and limitations on additional debt. In addition,
at September 30, 2003, our banking/finance  operating segment had $559.5 million
in available  uncommitted  short-term bank lines under the Federal Reserve Funds
system,  the Federal  Reserve Bank discount  window,  and Federal Home Loan Bank
short-term borrowing capacity.

NOTE 12 - TAXES ON INCOME

Taxes on income for the years ended  September 30, 2003,  2002, and 2001 were as
follows:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                 2003            2002        2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>         <C>
Current
  Federal                                                     $125,743         $71,400     $84,220
  State                                                         13,846          17,065      16,694
  Foreign                                                       31,329          38,653      41,532
Deferred expense                                                26,455          18,434      10,623
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
TOTAL PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                              $197,373        $145,552    $153,069
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
</TABLE>

                                       65
<PAGE>

Included in income before taxes was $305.2  million,  $283.7  million and $357.0
million of foreign  income for the years ended  September  30, 2003,  2002,  and
2001. The provision for U.S. income taxes includes  benefits of $6.3 million for
the year ended  September 30, 2003 related to the  utilization  of net operating
loss carry-forwards.

The major  components of the net deferred tax liability as of September 30, 2003
and 2002 were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                2003         2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
State taxes                                                 $5,975       $5,088
Loan loss reserves                                           3,251        4,007
Deferred compensation and employee benefits                 27,259       26,117
Restricted stock compensation plan                          38,074       32,925
Severance and retention compensation                         3,250       20,735
Net operating loss and foreign tax credit carry-forwards    74,729       70,030
Investments                                                     --        2,144
Other                                                       14,169       16,260
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred tax assets                                  166,707      177,306
Valuation allowance for tax carry-forwards                 (74,629)     (64,939)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance             92,078      112,367

DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Depreciation on fixed assets                                13,523       14,271
Goodwill and other purchased intangibles                   153,009      145,110
Deferred commissions                                        17,056       14,968
Interest expense on convertible notes                       21,116       11,863
Investments                                                  1,951           --
Other                                                       19,307       22,511
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred tax liabilities                             225,962      208,723
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY                               $(133,884)    $(96,356)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At September  30, 2003,  there were  approximately  $43.6 million of foreign net
operating  loss  carry-forwards,  approximately  $21.8  million of which  expire
between 2004 and 2011 with the  remaining  carry-forwards  having an  indefinite
life.  In  addition,  there  were  approximately  $710.0  million  in state  net
operating loss carry-forwards that expire between 2004 and 2023. There were also
approximately $17.4 million in federal foreign tax credit carry-forwards,  which
will expire between 2004 and 2007. A valuation  allowance has been recognized to
offset the related  deferred tax assets due to the  uncertainty of realizing the
benefit of the loss and credit carry-forwards.

We have made no  provision  for U.S.  taxes on  $2,140.9  million of  cumulative
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as those earnings are intended to
be reinvested for an indefinite  period of time.  Determination of the potential
amount of  unrecognized  deferred  U.S.  income  tax  liability  related to such
reinvested  income  is  not  practicable  because  of the  numerous  assumptions
associated  with this  hypothetical  calculation;  however,  foreign tax credits
would be available to reduce some portion of this amount.


                                       66
<PAGE>

The  following  is a  reconciliation  between  the amount of tax  expense at the
Federal  statutory  rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations  for the
years ended September 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                 2003            2002        2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>         <C>
Federal statutory rate                                             35%             35%         35%
Federal taxes at statutory rate                               $245,071        $202,396    $223,226
State taxes, net of Federal tax effect                           9,640          10,661      11,716
Effect of foreign operations                                   (63,841)        (52,269)    (75,963)
Other                                                            6,503         (15,236)     (5,910)
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
ACTUAL TAX PROVISION                                          $197,373        $145,552    $153,069
Effective tax rate                                                 28%             25%         24%
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
</TABLE>

NOTE 13 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

GUARANTEES

Under Financial  Accounting  Standards Board Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's
Accounting  and  Disclosure  Requirements  for  Guarantees,  Including  Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others", we are required,  on a prospective basis,
to recognize in our  financial  statements a liability for the fair value of any
guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002 as well as make additional
disclosures about existing guarantees.

In October  1999,  we entered into an agreement  for the lease of our  corporate
headquarters  campus  in San  Mateo,  California  from a lessor  trust  under an
operating lease that expires in fiscal 2005, with additional renewal options for
a further  period of up to 10  years.  In  connection  with this  lease,  we are
contingently  liable for  approximately  $145.0 million in residual  guarantees,
representing  approximately  85% of  the  total  construction  costs  of  $170.0
million.  We would become liable under this residual guarantee if we were unable
or unwilling to exercise our renewal  option to extend the lease term or buy the
corporate  headquarters  campus, or if we were unable to arrange for the sale of
the campus for more than $145.0 million.

We are also contingently  liable to purchase the corporate  headquarters  campus
for an amount  equal to the final  construction  costs of $170.0  million  if an
event of default occurs under the agreement.  An event of default includes,  but
is not  limited  to,  failure to make  lease  payments  when due and  failure to
maintain  required  insurance.  Management  considers the possibility of default
under the  provisions  of the  agreement to be remote.  Currently,  the lease is
treated  as an  operating  lease as none of the  capitalization  criteria  under
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 13,  "Accounting  for Leases",
were met at the inception of the lease. We anticipate  that we will  consolidate
our  headquarters  campus under the  requirements of FIN 46 in the period ending
December 31, 2003.

In relation to the auto loan  securitization  transactions  that we have entered
into with a number of qualified  special purpose  entities,  we are obligated to
cover shortfalls in amounts due to the holders of the notes up to certain levels
as specified under the related agreements. As of September 30, 2003, the maximum
potential  amount of future  payments was $13.7  million  relating to guarantees
made prior to January 1, 2003. In addition,  our  consolidated  balance sheet at
September  30, 2003  included a $0.1 million  liability  to reflect  obligations
arising from an auto securitization transaction in June 2003.

At  September  30,  2003,  our  banking/finance  operating  segment  had  issued
financial standby letters of credit totaling $5.5 million on which beneficiaries
would be able to draw upon in the  event of  non-performance  by our  customers,
primarily in relation to lease and lien obligations of these banking  customers.
These standby  letters of credit,  issued prior to January 1, 2003, were secured
by marketable  securities with a fair value of $15.2 million as of September 30,
2003 and commercial real estate.


                                       67
<PAGE>
MUTUAL FUND INVESTIGATIONS

As part of various ongoing  investigations  by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  ("SEC"),  the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California,
the U.S.  Attorney  for the  District of  Massachusetts,  the New York  Attorney
General  and the  Secretary  of  State  of  Massachusetts  relating  to  certain
practices in the mutual fund industry, including late trading, market timing and
sales compensation  arrangements,  Franklin Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(as used in this section,  together, the "Company"),  as well as certain current
or former  executives and employees of the Company,  have received  requests for
information and/or subpoenas to testify or produce  documents.  The Company and,
where  applicable,  the  relevant  individuals,   are  providing  documents  and
information  in response to these  requests  and  subpoenas.  In  addition,  the
Company  is  responding  to  requests  for  similar  kinds of  information  from
regulatory  authorities  in some of the  foreign  countries  where  the  Company
conducts its global asset management business.

The Company also has been conducting its own internal  fact-finding inquiry with
the assistance of outside counsel.  The Company is seeking to determine  whether
any  shareholders  of the  Franklin,  Templeton  and Mutual Series Funds (each a
"Fund" and together,  "Funds"),  including Company employees,  were permitted to
engage in late trading or in market timing transactions contrary to the policies
of the affected Fund and, if so, the  circumstances  and persons  involved.  The
Company is  committed  to taking  action to protect the  interests of our Funds'
shareholders,  including  appropriate action against any Company personnel found
to  have  knowingly   permitted  or  personally  engaged  in  improper  trading
practices.

To date, the Company has identified some instances of frequent trading in shares
of certain Funds by a few current or former  employees in their personal  401(k)
plan  accounts.  These  individuals  include  one trader and one  officer of the
Funds.  These two individuals have been placed on  administrative  leave and the
officer has resigned from his positions with the Funds.  Although our inquiry is
not complete,  to date we have found no instances of  inappropriate  mutual fund
trading by any  portfolio  manager,  investment  analyst or officer of  Franklin
Resources, Inc.

The independent directors of the Funds and the Company have retained independent
outside  counsel to review these matters,  to determine if any violations of law
or policies or inappropriate trading occurred, to conduct such further inquiries
as counsel may deem necessary and to report their  findings and  recommendations
to the independent directors of the Funds and the Company's board of directors.

The Company's internal inquiry regarding market timing and late trading is still
ongoing,  and we have not yet  completed  the  gathering  or  evaluation  of the
relevant facts.  Although we have not identified any late trading  problems,  we
have identified  various  instances of frequent  trading where we have questions
about the  propriety  of what  occurred  and what  responsibility,  if any,  the
Company may bear. Pending completion of the fact-finding process, one officer of
a  subsidiary  of the Company has been placed on  administrative  leave.  If the
Company  finds that it bears  responsibility  for any unlawful or  inappropriate
conduct that caused  losses to our Funds,  we are  committed to making the Funds
whole.

Separately,  in connection with the SEC's private investigation that resulted in
a proceeding  against  Morgan  Stanley DW,  Inc.,  the Company has been asked to
furnish  documents  and  testimony  relating to its  arrangements  to compensate
brokers  who  sell  Fund  shares.  Effective  November  28,  2003,  the  Company
determined not to direct any further  brokerage where the allocation is based on
sale of Fund  shares in order to satisfy  preferred  list or other  shelf  space
arrangements,  which  determination may have a material adverse financial impact
on the Company.

The Company  cannot state with  certainty the eventual  outcome of the foregoing
governmental  investigations,  the review by independent  outside counsel or the
Company's  own  internal  investigation,  which  could have a material  negative
financial  impact on the  Company.  However,  public  trust and  confidence  are
critical to the  Company's  business  and any material  loss of investor  and/or
client  confidence  could  result  in a  significant  decline  in  assets  under
management  by the  Company,  which  would  have an  adverse  effect  on  future
financial results.

                                       68
<PAGE>

In addition,  pending  regulatory and legislative  actions and reforms affecting
the mutual fund industry may significantly increase the Company's costs of doing
business  and/or  negatively  impact its revenues,  either of which could have a
material negative impact on the Company's financial results.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In October and November,  2003, three lawsuits were brought against subsidiaries
of the Company  alleging  breach of fiduciary duty with respect to the valuation
of the portfolio  securities  of certain  Franklin  Templeton  funds and seeking
monetary  damages and costs.  BRADFISCH v. TEMPLETON  FUNDS,  INC. AND TEMPLETON
GLOBAL ADVISORS LIMITED, Case 2003 L 001361, was filed on October 3, 2003 in the
Circuit Court for the Third Judicial  Circuit,  Madison  County,  Illinois,  and
relates to the  Templeton  World Fund.  WOODBURY  v.  TEMPLETON  GLOBAL  SMALLER
COMPANIES FUND, INC. AND TEMPLETON INVESTMENT COUNSEL,  LLC, Case 2003 L 001362,
was filed on  October  3,  2003 in the  Circuit  Court  for the  Third  Judicial
Circuit,  Madison County,  Illinois, and relates to the Templeton Global Smaller
Companies Fund, Inc. Both cases were removed to the United States District Court
for the Southern  District of Illinois on November 14,  2003.  The  complaint in
KENERLEY v. TEMPLETON FUNDS,  INC. AND TEMPLETON GLOBAL ADVISORS  LIMITED,  Case
No. 03-770 GPM, was filed in the United States  District  Court for the Southern
District of Illinois and served on the  defendants  on November  25, 2003.  This
lawsuit  relates to the  Templeton  World Fund and alleges  breach of  fiduciary
duties  imposed  by  Section  36(a) of the  Investment  Company  Act of 1940 and
pendant state law claims.

Management  strongly believes that the claims made in each of these lawsuits are
without merit and intends vigorously to defend against them.

OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

We lease office space and equipment under long-term operating leases expiring at
various dates through fiscal year 2017. Lease expense  aggregated $39.5 million,
$34.8 million and $41.3  million for the fiscal years ended  September 30, 2003,
2002, and 2001.  Future minimum lease  payments under  non-cancelable  operating
leases are as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                            AMOUNT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2004                                                                     $34,760
2005                                                                      31,614
2006                                                                      29,267
2007                                                                      25,327
2008                                                                      23,862
Thereafter                                                               123,747
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS                                            $268,577
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At September 30, 2003, the banking/finance  operating segment had commitments to
extend credit aggregating $280.5 million, primarily under its credit card lines.

In July 2003, we renegotiated  an agreement to outsource  management of our data
center and distributed server operations, originally signed in February 2001. We
may terminate  the amended  agreement any time after July 1, 2006 by incurring a
termination  charge.  The maximum  termination charge payable will depend on the
termination  date of the  amended  agreement,  the  service  levels  before  our
termination  of the  agreement,  costs  incurred  by  our  service  provider  to
wind-down the services and costs associated with assuming  equipment  leases. As
of September  30, 2003,  we estimate  that the  termination  fee payable in July
2006,  not  including  costs  associated  with assuming  equipment  leases would
approximate  $14.3 million and would  decrease each month for the subsequent two
years.

                                       69
<PAGE>

NOTE 14 - TRANSACTIONS WITH VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

FIN 46, issued in January 2003,  requires  consolidation of a variable  interest
entity ("VIE") by the enterprise  that has the majority of the risks and rewards
of ownership,  referred to as the primary  beneficiary.  The  consolidation  and
disclosure provisions of FIN 46 are effective immediately for VIEs created after
January 31,  2003,  and,  originally,  for interim or annual  reporting  periods
beginning after June 15, 2003 for VIEs created before February 1, 2003. However,
in October 2003,  the FASB issued Staff  Position FIN 46-6,  "Effective  Date of
FASB  Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FSP
FIN  46-6"),  deferring  the  consolidation  provisions  of FIN 46 to interim or
annual reporting  periods ending after December 15, 2003 for VIEs created before
February 1, 2003.

Six VIEs, all sponsored  investment  products with inception dates after January
31, 2003, have been  consolidated in our financial  statements as of and for the
quarter-ended  September  30,  2003.  The  effect of this  consolidation  was to
increase our consolidated net income by $1.1 million and our financial  position
by $10.4 million for and as of the year ended  September 30, 2003.  Our exposure
to loss related to our investment in these  consolidated  VIEs is limited to our
investment  and fees earned,  but not yet  received,  totaling  $38.7 million at
September 30, 2003.

The  tables  below  present  the  effect  of  consolidating  these  VIEs  in our
consolidated  financial  statements  as of and for the year ended  September 30,
2003:
<TABLE>


(IN THOUSANDS)                                                                   AMOUNTS
                                                                           BEFORE FIN 46          FIN 46
FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003                                        ADJUSTMENTS     ADJUSTMENTS   CONSOLIDATED
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                           <C>                 <C>        <C>
OPERATING REVENUES
   Investment management fees                                                 $1,487,465           $(134)    $1,487,331
   Underwriting and distribution fees                                            844,712             (38)       844,674
   Shareholder servicing fees                                                    217,227              (2)       217,225
   Consolidated sponsored investment products income, net                             --              93             93
   Other, net                                                                     75,125              --         75,125
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total operating revenues                                                    2,624,529             (81)     2,624,448
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                                    1,976,372              --      1,976,372
   Operating income                                                              648,157             (81)       648,076
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES)
   Consolidated sponsored investment products realized gains, net                     --             169            169
   Consolidated sponsored investment products unrealized gains, net                   --           1,476          1,476
   Investment and other income                                                    70,349              43         70,392
   Interest expense                                                              (19,910)             --        (19,910)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Other income, net                                                              50,439           1,688         52,127
   Income before taxes on income                                                 698,596           1,607        700,203
   Taxes on income                                                               196,907             466        197,373
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   NET INCOME                                                                   $501,689          $1,141       $502,830
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       70
<PAGE>

<TABLE>

 (IN THOUSANDS)                                                 BALANCE BEFORE
                                                                        FIN 46             FIN 46
AS OF THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003                            ADJUSTMENTS        ADJUSTMENTS          CONSOLIDATED
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                 <C>                   <C>                <C>
ASSETS
Current assets                                                      $2,958,469            $10,358            $2,968,827
Banking/finance assets                                                 918,425                 --               918,425
Non-current assets                                                   3,083,497                 --             3,083,497
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL ASSETS                                                     $6,960,391            $10,358            $6,970,749
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities                                                   $486,458             $2,068              $488,526
Banking/finance liabilities                                            801,980                 --               801,980
Non-current liabilities                                              1,361,845              8,290             1,370,135
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                 2,650,283             10,358             2,660,641
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total stockholders' equity                                           4,310,108                 --             4,310,108
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                       $6,960,391            $10,358            $6,970,749
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

We will adopt the  consolidation  provisions  of FIN 46 for VIEs created  before
February 1, 2003 in the quarter ending December 31, 2003, in accordance with FSP
FIN 46-6.  Based on the current  requirements  of FIN 46 and using September 30,
2003 values,  the table below  summarizes  our best  estimate of the increase in
assets in our  consolidated  balance sheet on adoption on December 31, 2003. The
table also  provides  detail on the total assets of VIEs in relation to which we
are a significant variable interest holder but not the primary beneficiary,  and
our  exposure to loss as a result of our  interest in these VIEs as of September
30, 2003.  It should be noted that our measure of exposure  does not reflect our
estimate of the actual losses that could result from adverse changes.

<TABLE>

(IN MILLIONS)                           PRIMARY BENEFICIARY        SIGNIFICANT VARIABLE INTEREST
                                                                              HOLDER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DESCRIPTION                          TOTAL ASSETS  RECOURSE /1/  TOTAL ASSETS               EXPOSURE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>             <C>         <C>                       <C>
Sponsored investment products            $1,119.2         None
Corporate headquarters campus /2/          $157.6        $12.4
Collateralized debt obligation
  entities                                                           $1,785.5                  $17.4
Lightning Finance Company Limited                                      $328.6                  $54.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

/1/  This column  reflects the extent,  if any, to which investors have recourse
     to Franklin Templeton  Investments beyond the carrying value of assets held
     in the VIE.
/2/  Based on estimated carrying values as of December 31, 2003.

Exposure  to loss  arising  from  our  investment  in the  sponsored  investment
products  that we believe  that we will  consolidate  on  December  31,  2003 is
limited to our  investment,  totaling  $167.1 million at September 30, 2003, and
fees earned but not yet received.  As the primary  beneficiary  of our corporate
headquarters  campus, a lessor trust, we anticipate that we will consolidate the
trust under the  provisions  of FIN 46 as of December  31,  2003.  The impact of
consolidating  the trust will be to  increase  property  and  equipment,  net by
approximately  $157.6  million and current  maturities  of  long-term  debt,  by
approximately $164.9 million as of this date.

In relation to our purchase of Darby,  we  anticipate  that we will  consolidate
sponsored  investment products with approximately $444.4 million in total assets
as of October 1, 2003.

                                       71
<PAGE>

NOTE 15 - EMPLOYEE STOCK AWARD AND OPTION PLANS

We sponsor a Universal  Stock  Incentive  Plan ("USIP") and an Annual  Incentive
Compensation Plan ("AICP").  Under the terms of these plans,  eligible employees
may receive cash and stock awards based on the performance of Franklin Templeton
Investments  and that of the  individual  employee.  The USIP  provides  for the
issuance  of up  to  36.0  million  shares  of  our  common  stock  for  various
stock-related  awards,  including those related to the AICP. As of September 30,
2003 and prior to  considering  fiscal 2003 grants,  we had  approximately  11.1
million shares  available for grant under the USIP,  including  those related to
the AICP.  In addition to the annual award of stock under the plan, we may award
options and other  forms of  stock-based  compensation  to some  employees.  The
Compensation  Committee  of the  Board of  Directors  determines  the  terms and
conditions of awards under the plans. Total stock-based compensation cost during
fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $37.2 million, $42.1 million and $26.6 million.

Information regarding stock options is as follows:
<TABLE>

                                             2003                  2002                 2001
------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------- ------------------
(SHARES IN THOUSANDS)                          WEIGHTED               WEIGHTED            WEIGHTED
                                                AVERAGE                AVERAGE             AVERAGE
                                               EXERCISE               EXERCISE            EXERCISE
                                       SHARES     PRICE     SHARES       PRICE   SHARES      PRICE
------------------------------------ ---------- --------- ---------- ----------- -------- ---------
<S>                                    <C>       <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>
Outstanding, beginning of year         11,679    $37.00      8,397      $36.94    2,222     $32.52
Granted                                 3,565    $33.18      4,208      $37.10    6,640     $38.41
Exercised/cancelled                    (1,955)   $36.06       (926)     $37.03     (465)    $36.70
Outstanding, end of year               13,289    $36.11     11,679      $37.00    8,397     $36.94
Exercisable, end of year                8,654    $36.40      5,479      $36.66    2,602     $35.65
------------------------------------ ---------- --------- ---------- ----------- -------- ---------
</TABLE>

The range of exercise prices for these outstanding options at September 30, 2003
was from $28.19 to $45.73. Of the exercisable  options,  91% were exercisable at
prices ranging from $32.63 to $38.38. The weighted-average remaining contractual
life for the options was 7 years.  Generally,  these  options vest over a 3-year
period and are exercisable for up to 10 years from the grant date.

NOTE 16 - EMPLOYEE STOCK INVESTMENT PLAN

We have a qualified,  non-compensatory  Employee Stock Investment Plan ("ESIP"),
which allows participants who meet certain eligibility criteria to buy shares of
our common stock at 90% of their market value on defined dates. Our stockholders
approved 4 million  shares of common stock for issuance under the ESIP. The ESIP
is open to substantially  all employees of U.S.  subsidiaries and some employees
of non-U.S.  subsidiaries. At September 30, 2003, approximately 1,651,000 shares
had been  purchased on a cumulative  basis under the ESIP at a  weighted-average
price of $31.61.

In connection with the ESIP, we may, at our election, provide matching grants to
participants  in the ESIP of whole or  partial  shares  of common  stock.  While
reserving the right to change this determination, we have indicated that we will
provide one half-share for each share held by a participant for a minimum period
of 18 months.  We made our first  matching  grant in fiscal 2000.  During fiscal
2003, 2002, and 2001, we issued approximately 104,000,  85,000 and 81,000 shares
at an average market price of $39.47, $35.47 and $45.04.

NOTE 17 - OTHER COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PLANS

Fiduciary Trust has a  noncontributory  retirement plan (the "retirement  plan")
covering  substantially  all its employees who were hired before our acquisition
of Fiduciary  Trust,  have  attained age 21 and  completed  one year of service.
Fiduciary Trust also maintains a nonqualified supplementary executive retirement
plan ("SERP") to pay defined  benefits  that are in excess of limits  imposed by
Federal tax law, to participants in the retirement plan who attain age 55 and 10
years of service. In addition to these pension retirement plans, Fiduciary Trust
sponsors a defined benefit healthcare plan that provides post-retirement medical
benefits to

                                       72
<PAGE>

full-time  employees  who have  worked  10 years  and  attained  age 55 while in
service of Fiduciary  Trust. As of the date of acquisition,  the defined benefit
healthcare plan was closed to new entrants.


The  following  table  shows the  funded  status of the plans,  accrued  benefit
liability we recognized for amounts not yet funded,  and assumptions  used as of
September 30, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>


                                                     PENSION BENEFITS           NON-PENSION BENEFITS
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT ASSUMPTIONS)                   2003         2002            2003        2002
--------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------ --------------- -----------
<S>                                              <C>          <C>              <C>         <C>
Benefit obligation                                $29,515      $31,635          $6,968      $5,094
Fair value of plan assets                          15,091       16,592             --          --
Funded status at year end                         (14,424)     (15,043)         (6,968)     (5,094)
Unrecognized actuarial losses (gains)               1,140        6,861           2,170         300
Unrecognized prior service (credit) cost              --          (128)           (150)        --
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET AMOUNT RECOGNIZED                            $(13,284)     $(8,310)        $(4,948)    $(4,794)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AMOUNTS RECOGNIZED IN THE CONSOLIDATED
  BALANCE SHEETS
Accrued benefit cost recognized                  $(14,424)    $(14,090)        $(4,948)    $(4,794)
Intangible asset                                      --           --              --          --
Accumulated other comprehensive income              1,140        5,780             --          --
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET AMOUNT RECOGNIZED                            $(13,284)     $(8,310)        $(4,948)    $(4,794)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ASSUMPTIONS
Discount rate                                      5.50%        6.50%           6.00%       6.50%
Expected return on plan assets                     5.31%        8.00%             N/A         N/A
Increase in compensation rate                      8.00%        4.50%           4.50%       4.50%
</TABLE>

Following the  acquisition  of Fiduciary  Trust,  we  established an $85 million
retention  pool aimed at retaining key Fiduciary  Trust  employees,  under which
employees  will receive both cash payments and options.  Salaried  employees who
remain  continuously  employed  through the  applicable  dates are  eligible for
compensation  under the program.  Excluding  the value of options  granted,  the
value of the retention plan is $68 million,  and is being expensed over a period
ranging from one to five years.  We expensed  $10.2  million,  $25.5 million and
$24.4  million in fiscal 2003,  2002 and 2001,  including  the  acceleration  of
retention payments related to the September 11, 2001 events as described in Note
19.

NOTE 18 - SEGMENT INFORMATION

We have two operating segments:  investment  management and banking/finance.  We
based our operating segment selection process primarily on services offered. The
investment  management  segment derives  substantially  all its revenues and net
income from providing  investment  advisory,  administration,  distribution  and
related  services  to  the  Franklin,  Templeton,  Mutual  Series,  Bissett  and
Fiduciary Trust funds,  and  institutional,  high net-worth and private accounts
and other  investment  products.  The  banking/finance  segment offers  selected
retail-banking   services  to  high  net-worth   individuals,   foundations  and
institutions,  and consumer lending  services.  Our consumer lending  activities
include  automotive  lending  related  to  the  purchase,   securitization,  and
servicing  of retail  installment  sales  contracts  originated  by  independent
automobile  dealerships,  consumer  credit and debit cards,  real estate  equity
lines, and home equity/mortgage loans.


                                       73
<PAGE>

Financial  information  for our two  operating  segments  for  the  years  ended
September 30, 2003,  2002,  and 2001 is presented in the table below.  Operating
revenues of the banking/finance segment are reported net of interest expense and
provision for loan losses.
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)
                                                            INVESTMENT        BANKING/
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003             MANAGEMENT         FINANCE      TOTALS
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
<S>                                                         <C>             <C>         <C>
Assets                                                      $6,052,324        $918,425  $6,970,749
Operating revenues                                           2,563,577          60,871   2,624,448
Interest revenue - inter-segment                                 2,501              --       2,501
September 11, 2001 recovery, net                                (4,401)             --      (4,401)
Interest expense                                                19,910             N/A      19,910
Income before taxes                                            658,571          41,632     700,203
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------

AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2002
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
Assets                                                      $5,370,766      $1,051,972  $6,422,738
Operating revenues                                           2,463,086          55,446   2,518,532
Interest revenue - inter-segment                                 5,415              --       5,415
Interest expense                                                12,302             N/A      12,302
Income before taxes                                            546,396          31,879     578,275
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
Assets                                                      $5,036,406      $1,229,244  $6,265,650
Operating revenues                                           2,323,085          31,758   2,354,843
Interest revenue - inter-segment                                 9,778              --       9,778
September 11, 2001 expense, net                                  7,649              --       7,649
Interest expense                                                10,556             N/A      10,556
Income before taxes                                            629,908           7,882     637,790
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
</TABLE>

Operating  revenues  of the  banking/finance  segment  included  above  were  as
follows:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                 2003            2002        2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
<S>                                                            <C>             <C>         <C>
Interest and fees on loans                                     $31,134         $33,523     $34,296
Interest and dividends on investment securities                 18,595          19,804      11,430
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
Total interest income                                           49,729          53,327      45,726
Interest on deposits                                             6,119           9,812      10,768
Interest on short-term debt                                        436             392       1,003
Interest expense - inter-segment                                 2,501           5,415       9,778
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
Total interest expense                                           9,056          15,619      21,549
Net interest income                                             40,673          37,708      24,177
Other income                                                    33,621          31,628      17,166
Provision for loan losses                                      (13,423)        (13,890)     (9,585)
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                                       $60,871         $55,446     $31,758
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- -----------
</TABLE>

Inter-segment  interest  payments  from  the  banking/finance   segment  to  the
investment  management  segment  are based on  market  rates  prevailing  at the
inception of each loan. As further described in Note 1,  inter-segment  interest
income and expense are not eliminated in our consolidated  statements of income.
The investment  management segment incurs  substantially all of our depreciation
and amortization costs and expenditures on long-lived assets.

                                       74
<PAGE>

We conduct operations in the following principal  geographic areas of the world:
the United States, Canada, the Bahamas,  Europe, Asia, South America, Africa and
Australia. For segment reporting purposes, we have combined Asia, South America,
Africa and  Australia  into one category - Other.  Revenues by  geographic  area
include  fees  and  commissions   charged  to  customers  and  fees  charged  to
affiliates.

Information by geographic area is summarized below:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                 2003           2002         2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
<S>                                                         <C>            <C>          <C>
OPERATING REVENUES:
 United States                                              $1,883,563     $1,846,867   $1,685,108
 Canada                                                        222,782        206,287      267,007
 Bahamas                                                       327,029        258,745      294,922
 Europe                                                         98,801        134,252      129,090
 Other                                                         164,869        167,457      144,200
 Eliminations                                                  (72,596)       (95,076)    (165,484)
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
 TOTAL                                                      $2,624,448     $2,518,532   $2,354,843
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET:
 United States                                                $303,457       $338,763     $394,082
 Canada                                                          4,007          5,151        7,246
 Bahamas                                                         6,861          7,299        7,916
 Europe                                                          6,045          6,371        7,159
 Other                                                          36,402         36,588       33,223
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
 TOTAL                                                        $356,772       $394,172     $449,626
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 19 - SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 EVENT

On September 11, 2001, the  headquarters  of our subsidiary  company,  Fiduciary
Trust,  at Two World Trade Center was destroyed in the terrorist  attacks on New
York City (the  "September  11, 2001 Event").  We have since leased office space
for Fiduciary Trust in midtown Manhattan,  to resume permanent  operations.  The
following table shows the financial  impact of the event recognized at September
30, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)                                                          2003        2002      2001
----------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ----------- ---------
<S>                                                                  <C>         <C>       <C>
Cumulative September 11, 2001 costs recognized as of end of year     $68,945     $64,853   $50,185
September 11, 2001 (recovery) expense, net                            (4,401)         --     7,649
----------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ----------- ---------
</TABLE>

Approximately  $19.9 million of the cumulative  estimated costs recognized as of
September 30, 2003 pertain to the  write-off of an  intangible  asset related to
leased office space and to the  write-off of property and equipment  lost in the
September  11,  2001  Event.  In  addition,  as of  September  30,  2003  we had
recognized a $16.7 million charge related to employee  benefit  expenses.  These
expenses include the acceleration of payments under the employee retention bonus
plan related to the acquisition of Fiduciary  Trust,  and other payments made in
respect  of victims  of the  tragedy.  Cumulative  insurance  proceeds  received
through September 30, 2003 were $67.4 million and included $57.2 million related
to property  and  equipment.  At September  30, 2003,  we were in the process of
pursuing a number of additional claims with our insurance carriers.


                                       75
<PAGE>

NOTE 20 - INVESTMENT AND OTHER INCOME
<TABLE>

(IN THOUSANDS)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,                                 2003          2002          2001
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>          <C>
Dividends                                                      $13,328       $12,934       $24,369
Interest                                                        27,688        37,796        63,455
Realized gains on sale of assets, net                            8,798         3,957        54,869
Other-than-temporary decline in investments value                   --       (60,068)           --
Foreign exchange gains, net                                     10,069        (6,149)       (3,629)
Other                                                           10,509        16,605        (2,713)
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
TOTAL INVESTMENT AND OTHER INCOME                              $70,392        $5,075      $136,351
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
</TABLE>

During fiscal 2002, we recognized a $60.1 million  other-than-temporary  decline
in value of investments.  Substantially all of our dividend income was generated
by investments in our sponsored investment products. We realized a gain of $32.9
million on the sale of our  former  headquarters  building  in San Mateo in July
2000,  which was  amortized  over 12 months,  the period of our leaseback on the
building.

NOTE 21 - FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair  value of a  financial  instrument  represents  the amount at which the
instrument could be exchanged in a current  transaction between willing parties,
other than in a forced sale or liquidation.  The methods and assumptions used to
estimate fair values of our financial  instruments are described below. See Note
1.

Due to the  short-term  nature and  liquidity of cash and cash  equivalents  and
receivables,  the carrying amounts of these assets in the  consolidated  balance
sheets approximated fair value.

Investment  securities,  trading are carried at fair value with  changes in fair
value recognized in our consolidated net income.

Investment  securities,  available-for-sale  are carried at fair market value as
required by generally accepted accounting principles.

Loans receivable,  net are valued using interest rates that consider the current
credit and interest rate risk inherent in the loans and the current economic and
lending conditions.  The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets approximated
fair value.  Loans  originated and intended for sale are carried at the lower of
cost or estimated fair value in the aggregate.  Net unrealized  losses,  if any,
are recognized through a valuation allowance included in other, net revenues.

Deposits of the banking/finance  segment are valued using interest rates offered
by comparable  institutions on deposits with similar remaining  maturities.  The
amounts in the consolidated balance sheets approximated fair value.

Interest-rate swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts are carried at fair
value.

Debt is valued using  publicly-traded debt with similar maturities,  credit risk
and interest rates. The amounts in the consolidated  balance sheets  approximate
fair values.

Guarantees and letters of credit have fair values based on the face value of the
underlying instrument.

NOTE 22 - BANKING REGULATORY RATIOS

Following  the  acquisition  of Fiduciary  Trust in April 2001, we became a bank
holding company and a financial  holding  company subject to various  regulatory
capital  requirements  administered by the federal banking agencies.  Failure to
meet minimum capital requirements can result in certain mandatory,  and possibly
additional,  discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have
a direct  material  effect on our  financial  statements.  We must meet specific
capital adequacy  guidelines that involve  quantitative  measures of our assets,
liabilities,  and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory
accounting practices.


                                       76
<PAGE>

Our capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments
by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.

Quantitative  measures  established  by  regulation to ensure  capital  adequacy
require us to maintain a minimum  Tier 1 capital  and Tier 1 leverage  ratio (as
defined  in the  regulations),  as well as minimum  Tier 1 and Total  risk-based
capital ratios (as defined in the regulations).  Based on our calculations as of
September  30, 2003 and 2002,  we exceeded  the  capital  adequacy  requirements
applicable to us as listed below.
<TABLE>

                                                                                       MINIMUM FOR
                                                                                       OUR CAPITAL
                                                                                          ADEQUACY
(IN THOUSANDS)                                                   2003         2002        PURPOSES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>                    <C>
Tier 1 capital                                             $2,122,167   $2,170,328             N/A
Total risk-based capital                                    2,130,717    2,179,363             N/A
Tier 1 leverage ratio                                             40%          45%              4%
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio                                   64%          65%              4%
Total risk-based capital ratio                                    64%          65%              8%
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       77
<PAGE>

                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income
and cash flows  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated
financial position of Franklin Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September
30, 2003 and 2002, and the  consolidated  results of their  operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended  September  30, 2003,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  These financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management;  our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements  based on our  audits.  We  conducted  our audits of these  financial
statements  in  accordance  with auditing  standards  generally  accepted in the
United  States of America,  which  require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free of
material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining,  on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Francisco, California
December 5, 2003


                                       78
<PAGE>

ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company's  management  evaluated,  with the  participation  of the Company's
principal executive and principal  financial officers,  the effectiveness of the
Company's  disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)  under the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange
Act")) as of  September  30,  2003.  Based on their  evaluation,  the  Company's
principal   executive  and  principal  financial  officers  concluded  that  the
Company's  disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30,
2003.

There  has been no change  in the  Company's  internal  control  over  financial
reporting (as defined in Rules  13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)  under the Exchange Act)
that occurred during the Company's fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2003, that
has  materially  affected,  or is reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the
Company's internal control over financial reporting.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this Item with respect to our executive officers is
contained in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K under the section, "Executive
Officers of the Registrant".

CODE OF ETHICS.  The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics and  Business  Conduct
(the "Code of Ethics")  that  applies to the  Registrant's  principal  executive
officer,   principal   financial  officer,   principal   accounting  officer  or
controller,  or persons  performing  similar  functions,  as well as  directors,
officers  and  employees  of the  Company.  The Code of  Ethics is posted on the
Company's  website  (www.franklintempleton.com)  and  available in print free of
charge to any shareholder who requests a copy.  Interested parties may address a
written request for a printed copy of the Code of Ethics to: Secretary, Franklin
Resources,  Inc., One Franklin Parkway,  San Mateo,  California  94403-1906.  We
intend to satisfy the  disclosure  requirement  regarding any amendment to, or a
waiver  of, a  provision  of the Code of Ethics for the  Registrant's  principal
executive officer,  principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or
controller,  or persons performing similar functions by posting such information
on our website.

The information regarding directors of FRI, members of the Audit Committee,  the
Audit  Committee  financial  expert,  and  compliance  with Section 16(a) of the
Exchange Act, is incorporated  by reference from the information  provided under
the  section  entitled  "Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors"  from our  Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information in the Proxy Statement under the section  entitled  "Proposal 1:
Election of Directors" is incorporated herein by this reference.


                                       79
<PAGE>

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The following  table sets forth certain  information  about equity  compensation
plans that have been  approved by security  holders and plans that have not been
approved by security holders.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                    EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION /1/

                                                                                     NUMBER OF
                                                                                    SECURITIES
                                                                                     REMAINING
                                           NUMBER OF                               AVAILABLE FOR
                                       SECURITIES TO BE                           FUTURE ISSUANCE
                                          ISSUED UPON       WEIGHTED-AVERAGE       UNDER EQUITY
                                          EXERCISE OF        EXERCISE PRICE        COMPENSATION
                                          OUTSTANDING        OF OUTSTANDING      PLANS (EXCLUDING
                                           OPTIONS,             OPTIONS,            SECURITIES
                                         WARRANTS AND         WARRANTS AND         REFLECTED IN
                                            RIGHTS               RIGHTS             COLUMN (a))
PLAN CATEGORY                                (a)                  (b)                   (c)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>                     <C>                <C>
Equity compensation plans approved
  by security holders /2/                 13,288,991 /3/          $36.11             13,123,108 /4/
Equity compensation plans not
  approved by security holders                     0                   0                     0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                     13,288,991              $36.11             13,123,108
</TABLE>


1    The table includes information for equity compensation plans assumed by the
     Company in connection with acquisitions of the companies,  which originally
     established those plans.

2    Consists of the 2002 Universal  Stock  Incentive Plan and the 1998 Employee
     Stock Investment Plan (the "Purchase Plan"), as Amended.

3    Excludes  options to purchase  accruing under the Company's  Purchase Plan.
     Under the Purchase Plan each eligible employee is granted a separate option
     to purchase up to 2,000  shares of Common  Stock each  semi-annual  accrual
     period on January 31 and July 31 at a purchase price per share equal to 90%
     of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the enrollment  date or the
     exercise date, whichever is lower.

4    Includes  shares  available for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. As
     of September 30, 2003,  2,007,662 of shares of Common Stock were  available
     for issuance under the Purchase Plan.

The information required by this Item with respect to Stock Ownership of Certain
Beneficial   Owners  and  Management  is  incorporated  by  reference  from  the
information provided under the section entitled "Security Ownership of Principal
Shareholders" and "Security Ownership of Management" of our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The  information  required by this Item is  incorporated  by reference  from the
information  provided  under the  section  entitled  "Proposal  1:  Election  of
Directors  -  Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions"  of our  Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Not applicable for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003.


                                       80
<PAGE>

                                     PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1)   Please see the index in Item 8 on page 45 of this  Annual  Report for a
         list of the financial statements filed as part of this report.

(a)(2)   Please see the index in Item 8 on page 45 of this  Annual  Report for a
         list of the financial statement schedules filed as part of this report.

(a)(3)   Exhibits: See Index to Exhibits on Pages 83 to 88.

(b)(1)   Form 8-K filed on August 6, 2003 reporting  under Item 5 "Other Events"
         and Item 7 "Financial Statements and Exhibits", a "press release issued
         on August 4, 2003 by Registrant and Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd."

(c)      See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(d)      No separate financial  statements are required;  schedules are included
         in Item 8.


                                       81
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  Registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ CHARLES B. JOHNSON
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Charles B. Johnson, Chairman, Chief Executive
                              Officer, and Member - Office of the Chairman

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date: December 19, 2003    By: /s/ CHARLES B. JOHNSON
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Charles B. Johnson, Chairman, Chief Executive
                              Officer, Member - Office of the Chairman, and
                              Director (Principal Executive Officer)

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ JAMES R. BAIO
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              James R. Baio, Senior Vice President and Chief
                              Financial Officer (Principal Financial and
                              Accounting Officer)

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ HARMON E. BURNS
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Harmon E. Burns, Vice Chairman, Member - Office of
                              the Chairman, and Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ CHARLES CROCKER
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Charles Crocker, Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ MARTIN L. FLANAGAN
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Martin L. Flanagan, President

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ ROBERT D. JOFFE
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Robert D. Joffe, Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ GREGORY E. JOHNSON
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Gregory E. Johnson, President

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ RUPERT H. JOHNSON, JR.
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Rupert H. Johnson, Jr., Vice Chairman, Member -
                              Office of the Chairman, and Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ THOMAS H. KEAN
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Thomas H. Kean, Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ JAMES A. MCCARTHY
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              James A. McCarthy, Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ CHUTTA RATNATHICAM
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Chutta Ratnathicam, Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ PETER M. SACERDOTE
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Peter M. Sacerdote, Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ ANNE M. TATLOCK
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Anne M. Tatlock, Vice Chairman, Member - Office of
                              the Chairman, and Director

Date: December 19, 2003   By: /s/ LOUIS E. WOODWORTH
                              --------------------------------------------------
                              Louis E. Woodworth, Director


                                       82
<PAGE>


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
EXHIBIT NO.

3(i)(a)  Registrant's Certificate of Incorporation,  as filed November 28, 1969,
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

3(i)(b)  Registrant's  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
         as filed March 1, 1985,  incorporated  by  reference to the 1994 Annual
         Report

3(i)(c)  Registrant's  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
         as filed April 1, 1987,  incorporated  by  reference to the 1994 Annual
         Report

3(i)(d)  Registrant's  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
         as filed February 2, 1994, incorporated by reference to the 1994 Annual
         Report

3(ii)    Registrant's  Amended and Restated  By-laws adopted  November 12, 2002,
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002 (the "2002 Annual Report")

4.1      Indenture between the Registrant and The Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly
         Chemical Bank), as trustee,  dated as of May 19, 1994,  incorporated by
         reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed on
         April 14, 1994

4.2      Indenture  between  Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and The Bank of New York
         dated May 11,  2001,  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Registrant's
         Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed on August 6, 2001

4.3      Form  of  Liquid  Yield  Option  Note  due  2031  (Zero  Coupon-Senior)
         (included in Exhibit 4.2 hereto)

4.4      Registration  Rights  Agreement  between Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and
         Merrill Lynch,  Pierce,  Fenner & Smith Incorporated  ("Merrill Lynch")
         dated May 11,  2001,  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Registrant's
         Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed on August 6, 2001

4.5      Form of 3.7%  Senior  Notes  due 2008,  incorporated  by  reference  to
         Exhibit  4.5 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the
         period ended March 31, 2003 filed on May 12, 2003

10.1     Representative  Distribution  Plan between  Templeton Growth Fund, Inc.
         and  Franklin/Templeton   Investor  Services,   Inc.,  incorporated  by
         reference to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
         year ended September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

10.2     Representative  Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
         Inc. and Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by
         reference to the 1993 Annual Report

10.3     Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton Growth
         Fund, Inc. and Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd., incorporated by
         reference to the 1993 Annual Report

10.4     Representative  Management  Agreement between Advisers and the Franklin
         Group of Funds,  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Company's  Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  September  30, 1992 (the
         "1992 Annual Report")

10.5     Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan  between FTDI and the Franklin
         Group of Funds, incorporated by reference to the 1992 Annual Report

10.6     Amended Annual Incentive  Compensation  Plan approved January 24, 1995,
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
         cover of Schedule  14A on  December  28,  1994 in  connection  with its
         Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 24, 1995*

10.7     Universal  Stock  Plan  approved  January  19,  1994,  incorporated  by
         reference to the Company's  1995 Proxy  Statement  filed under cover of
         Schedule 14A on December 29, 1993 in connection with its Annual Meeting
         of Stockholders held on January 19, 1994*

                                       83
<PAGE>

10.8     Representative  Amended and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Federal  Tax-Free
         Income  Fund,  incorporated  by reference  to the  Company's  Quarterly
         Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period ended June 30, 1995 (the
         "June 1995 Quarterly Report")

10.9     Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares between  Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Federal   Tax-Free  Income  Fund,
         incorporated by reference to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.10    Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton Global
         Strategy   SICAV   and   Templeton   Investment   Management   Limited,
         incorporated by reference to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.11    Representative  Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, Galbraith
         & Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp.  Securities,  incorporated by reference
         to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.12    Representative    Dealer    Agreement    between     Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,  Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to the June
         1995 Quarterly Report

10.13    Representative   Investment   Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
         Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA),  incorporated by reference
         to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.14    Representative   Investment   Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
         Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and  Client  (non-ERISA),  incorporated  by
         reference to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.15    Representative  Amended and  Restated  Transfer  Agent and  Shareholder
         Services Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc.
         and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995, incorporated by
         reference to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
         year ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

10.16    Representative  Amended and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian  Funds,
         Inc., incorporated by reference to the 1995 Annual Report

10.17    Representative  Class II Distribution  Plan between  Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., on behalf of its
         Growth Series, incorporated by reference to the 1995 Annual Report

10.18    Representative    Dealer    Agreement    between     Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,  Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to the 1995
         Annual Report

10.19    Representative Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for Accounts of
         Bank and Trust Company Customers,  effective July 1, 1995, incorporated
         by reference to the 1995 Annual Report

10.20    Representative  Management  Agreement  between Franklin Value Investors
         Trust, on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value Fund and Franklin Advisers,
         Inc., incorporated by reference to the 1995 Annual Report

10.21    Representative  Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, Galbraith
         & Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor, incorporated by reference to the
         1995 Annual Report

10.22    Representative  Non-Exclusive  Underwriting Agreement between Templeton
         Growth Fund, Inc. and  Templeton/Franklin  Investments  Services (Asia)
         Limited,  dated  September 18, 1995,  incorporated  by reference to the
         1995 Annual Report

10.23    Representative      Shareholder      Services     Agreement     between
         Franklin/Templeton   Investor  Services,  Inc.  and  Templeton/Franklin
         Investments   Services  (Asia)  Limited,   dated  September  18,  1995,
         incorporated by reference to the 1995 Annual Report

10.24    Agreement  to Merge the  Businesses  of Heine  Securities  Corporation,
         Elmore Securities Corporation, and Franklin Resources, Inc., dated June
         25, 1996, incorporated by reference to the Company's Report on Form 8-K
         dated June 25, 1996

                                       84
<PAGE>

10.25    Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder Services dated November
         1, 1996 by and between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and
         PFPC Inc.,  incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on
         Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1996 (the "1996
         Annual Report")

10.26    Representative  Sample of  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc.
         Transfer Agent and  Shareholder  Services  Agreement,  incorporated  by
         reference to the 1996 Annual Report

10.27    Representative  Administration Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
         Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference
         to the 1996 Annual Report

10.28    Representative  Sample of Fund  Administration  Agreement with Franklin
         Templeton Services,  Inc., incorporated by reference to the 1996 Annual
         Report

10.29    Representative  Subcontract for Fund  Administrative  Services  between
         Franklin  Advisers,   Inc.  and  Franklin  Templeton  Services,   Inc.,
         incorporated by reference to the 1996 Annual Report

10.30    Representative  Investment  Advisory  Agreement between Franklin Mutual
         Series Fund, Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by
         reference to the 1996 Annual Report

10.31    Representative  Management  Agreement between Franklin  Valuemark Funds
         and Franklin Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to the
         1996 Annual Report

10.32    Representative  Investment  Advisory  and  Asset  Allocation  Agreement
         between Franklin Templeton Fund Allocator Series and Franklin Advisers,
         Inc., incorporated by reference to the 1996 Annual Report

10.33    Representative  Management Agreement between Franklin New York Tax-Free
         Income Fund,  Inc. and Franklin  Investment  Advisory  Services,  Inc.,
         incorporated by reference to the 1996 Annual Report

10.34    1998  Employee  Stock   Investment  Plan  approved  January  20,  1998,
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
         cover of Schedule  14A on  December  17,  1997 in  connection  with its
         Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 20, 1998

10.35    System  Development and Services  Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
         by and between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard
         Shareholder Systems,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to the Company's
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997

10.36    1998 Universal  Stock  Incentive Plan approved  October 16, 1998 by the
         Board of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Proxy
         Statement  filed under cover of  Schedule  14A on December  23, 1998 in
         connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders  held on January 28,
         1999*

10.37    Amendment  No. 3 to the  Agreement  to Merge  the  Businesses  of Heine
         Securities  Corporation,  Elmore Securities  Corporation,  and Franklin
         Resources,  Inc., dated December 17, 1997, incorporated by reference to
         the Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly  period
         ended December 31, 1997

10.38    Representative  Agreement for the Supply of Investment  Management  and
         Administration  Services,  dated  February  16,  1998,  by and  between
         Templeton   Funds  and   Templeton   Investment   Management   Limited,
         incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1998

10.39    Representative   Investment   Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
         Investment Counsel,  Inc. and Client (ERISA), as amended,  incorporated
         by  reference  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K/A for the
         fiscal year ended September 30, 1998 (the "1998 Annual Report")

10.40    Representative   Investment   Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
         Investment   Counsel,   Inc.  and  Client   (non-ERISA),   as  amended,
         incorporated by reference to the 1998 Annual Report

10.41    Representative  Variable Insurance Fund  Participation  Agreement among
         Templeton  Variable  Products  Series Fund or Franklin  Valuemark Fund,
         Franklin/Templeton   Distributors,   Inc.  and  an  insurance  company,
         incorporated  by reference on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  December
         31, 1998

10.42    Purchase  Agreement  between  Mariners  Island  Co-Tenancy  and Keynote
         Systems,  Inc. dated April 25, 2000,  incorporated  by reference to the
         Company's  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
         2000

                                       85
<PAGE>
10.43    Acquisition  Agreement  dated July 26, 2000 among  Franklin  Resources,
         Inc., FTI Acquisition and Bissett & Associates  Investment  Management,
         Ltd.,  incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Report on Form 8-K
         dated August 1, 2000

10.44    Agreement and Plan of Share  Acquisition  between  Franklin  Resources,
         Inc. and Fiduciary Trust Company  International dated October 25, 2000,
         incorporated  by  reference  to the  Company's  Report  on  Form  8-K/A
         (Amendment No. 1) dated October 25, 2000 and filed on October 26, 2000

10.45    Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  among
         Templeton   Emerging  Markets  Fund,   Templeton  Canadian  Bond  Fund,
         Templeton  International  Stock Fund,  Templeton  Canadian  Stock Fund,
         Templeton  Global Smaller  Companies Fund,  Templeton Global Bond Fund,
         Templeton Treasury Bill Fund, Templeton Global Balanced Fund, Templeton
         International  Balanced Fund, Templeton Canadian Asset Allocation Fund,
         Mutual  Beacon Fund,  Franklin  U.S.  Small Cap Growth Fund,  Templeton
         Balanced  Fund,  Templeton  Growth  Fund,  Ltd.,  Templeton  Management
         Limited, and FEP Capital, L.P. dated December 31, 1998, incorporated by
         reference to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
         year ended September 30, 2000 (the "2000 Annual Report")

10.46    Representative    Purchase   and   Sales   Agreement   by   and   among
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc., Franklin Resources,  Inc., and
         Lightning Finance Company Limited dated August 1, 1999, incorporated by
         reference to the 2000 Annual Report

10.47    Representative  Advisory  Agreement  between  Templeton Global Advisors
         Limited and Templeton Asset Management Limited dated December 21, 1999,
         incorporated by reference to the 2000 Annual Report

10.48    Representative Amended and Restated Commission Paying Agreement between
         Templeton  Global Strategy Funds,  Templeton  Global Advisors  Limited,
         Templeton Global Strategic Services S.A., and Lightning Finance Company
         Limited dated January 31, 2000,  incorporated  by reference to the 2000
         Annual Report

10.49    Representative  Variable Insurance Fund  Participation  Agreement among
         Franklin Templeton Variable Insurance Products Trust (formerly Franklin
         Valuemark  Funds),  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.,  and  CUNA
         Mutual  Life  Insurance  Company  dated May 1,  2000,  incorporated  by
         reference to the 2000 Annual Report

10.50    Stock Purchase  Agreement between Good Morning Securities Co., Ltd. and
         Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc. dated June 29, 2000, incorporated by
         reference to the 2000 Annual Report

10.51    Agreement entered into between NEDCOR Investment Bank Holdings Limited,
         NEDCOR Investment Bank Limited, Templeton International, Inc., Franklin
         Templeton Asset Management  (Proprietary) Limited, and Templeton Global
         Advisors Limited dated August 1, 2000, incorporated by reference to the
         2000 Annual Report

10.52    Representative  Amended and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Growth and Income
         Fund dated  August 10,  2000,  incorporated  by  reference  to the 2000
         Annual Report

10.53    Employment  Agreement  entered  into on December  22, 2000 by and among
         Anne M. Tatlock,  Fiduciary  Trust Company  International  and Franklin
         Resources,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to the Company's Report on
         Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2000*

10.54    Amended and Restated 1998 Universal Stock Incentive Plan as approved by
         the Board of Directors on October 28, 2000 and the  Stockholders at the
         Annual Meeting held on January 25, 2001,  incorporated  by reference to
         the  Company's  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarterly  period  ended
         December 31, 2000*

10.55    Representative  Sub-Advisory  Agreement  between  FTTrust  Company,  on
         behalf of Templeton  International  Smaller  Companies Fund,  Templeton
         Investment Counsel, LLC, and Templeton Asset Management Limited,  dated
         January 23, 2001,  incorporated by reference to the Company's Report on
         Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2001

                                       86
<PAGE>

10.56    Managed  Operations   Services  Agreement  between  Franklin  Templeton
         Companies,  LLC, and International  Business Machines Corporation dated
         February 6, 2001,  incorporated by reference to the Company's Report on
         Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2001

10.57    Representative   Agency   Agreement   between   FTTrust   Company   and
         Franklin/Templeton   Investor  Services,  LLC,  dated  April  1,  2001,
         incorporated by reference to the Company's  Report on Form 10-Q for the
         quarterly period ended March 31, 2001

10.58    Lease between RCPI Landmark  Properties,  L.L.C. and Franklin Templeton
         Companies,  LLC dated September 30, 2001,  incorporated by reference to
         the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
         September 30, 2001 (the "2001 Annual Report")

10.59    Synthetic Lease Financing Facility Agreements dated September 27, 1999,
         incorporated by reference to the 2001 Annual Report

10.60    Representative Amended and Restated Master Management Agreement between
         Franklin  Templeton  Investment  Corp.,  as Trustee of mutual funds and
         Franklin  Templeton  Investment Corp., as Manager,  dated May 31, 2001,
         incorporated by reference to the 2001 Annual Report

10.61    Representative  Master Management  Agreement dated May 31, 2001 between
         Franklin Templeton Tax Class Corp. and Franklin  Templeton  Investments
         Corp., incorporated by reference to the 2001 Annual Report

10.62    Deferred  Compensation  Agreement  for  Director's  Fees, as amended on
         April 15, 2002,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Report on
         Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2002

10.63    Franklin Resources, Inc. 1998 Employee Stock Investment Plan as amended
         by the  Board  of  Directors  on  October  10,  2002,  incorporated  by
         reference to the Company's Report on Form S-8 filed on October 28, 2002

10.64    Amended and Restated Five Year Facility Credit  Agreement dated June 5,
         2002 between  Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and The Several  Banks Parties
         Thereto,   Bank  of  America,  N.A.  and  The  Bank  of  New  York,  as
         Co-Syndication   Agents,   Citicorp   USA  Inc.   and  BNP  Paribas  as
         Co-Documentation  Agents and JP Morgan  Chase Bank,  as  Administrative
         Agent, incorporated by reference to the 2002 Annual Report

10.65    Amended and Restated 364 Day Facility Credit Agreement dated June 5,
         2002 between  Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and The Several  Banks Parties
         Thereto,   Bank  of  America,  N.A.  and  The  Bank  of  New  York,  as
         Co-Syndication   Agents,   Citicorp   USA  Inc.   and  BNP  Paribas  as
         Co-Documentation  Agents and JP Morgan  Chase Bank,  as  Administrative
         Agent, incorporated by reference to the 2002 Annual Report

10.66    Settlement  Agreement  and  Release  of All  Claims  dated July 7, 2002
         between Franklin Resources,  Inc. and Allen J. Gula, Jr.,  incorporated
         by reference to the 2002 Annual Report

10.67    Stock Purchase  Agreements dated July 23, 2002 between  Templeton Asset
         Management (India) Private Limited and Pioneer  Investment  Management,
         Inc. and various  employee  shareholders,  incorporated by reference to
         the 2002 Annual Report

10.68    2002  Universal  Stock  Incentive  Plan as  approved  by the  Board  of
         Directors  on  October  10,  2002 and the  Stockholders  at the  Annual
         Meeting  held on January 30,  2003,  incorporated  by  reference to the
         Company's  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly  period ended December
         31, 2002

10.69    Amendments  dated July 2, 2001,  June 10, 2002 and  February 3, 2003 to
         the  Managed  Operations  Services  Agreement  dated  February 6, 2001,
         between Franklin Templeton  Companies,  LLC and International  Business
         Machines Corporation, incorporated by reference to the Company's Report
         on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2003

10.70    Representative  Form  of  Franklin  Templeton  Investor  Services,  LLC
         Transfer Agent and  Shareholder  Services  Agreement,  incorporated  by
         reference to the Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
         ended March 31, 2003

10.71    Amendments  dated  July 1, 2003 and  September  1, 2003 to the  Managed
         Operations  Service Agreement dated February 6, 2001,  between Franklin
         Templeton   Companies,   LLC  and   International   Business   Machines
         Corporation

                                       87
<PAGE>
10.72    Purchase  Agreement  by  and  among  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.,  Darby
         Holdings,  Inc. and certain  other named  parties dated as of August 1,
         2003

10.73    Amended and Restated 364 Day Facility  Credit  Agreement  dated June 4,
         2003 between  Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and The Banks Parties Thereto,
         Bank of  America,  N.A.  and The Bank of New  York,  as  Co-Syndication
         Agents, Citicorp USA Inc. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation  Agents,
         and JP Morgan Chase Bank,  as  Administrative  Agent,  incorporated  by
         reference to the 2003 Annual Report

12       Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

14       Code of Ethics and Business Conduct

21       List of Subsidiaries

23       Consent of Independent Auditors

31.1     Certification of Chief Executive Officer

31.2     Certification of Chief Financial Officer

32.1     Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section
         1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of
         2002

32.2     Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section
         1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of
         2002

         *   Management/Employment Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement



                                       88


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
