<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>jha03q4.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2003
<TEXT>


                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549


                                   FORM 10-K
   (Mark One)

      [ X ]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003

                                      OR

       [  ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

       For the transition period from ______________ to _____________

                           Commission Number 0-14112

                        JACK HENRY AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
            ------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                                    43-1128385
  -------------------------------                      ----------------
   State or Other Jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
   Incorporation or Organization                      Identification No.)

                663 Highway 60, P.O. Box 807, Monett, MO 65708
                ----------------------------------------------
                   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (417) 235-6652

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   None

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                         Common Stock ($.01 par value)
                         -----------------------------
                                (Title of Class)


 Indicate by  check mark  whether the  Registrant (1)  has filed  all reports
 required to be filed  by Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act
 of 1934 during the preceding 12 months  (or for such shorter period that the
 Registrant was required  to file such reports), and (2)  has been subject to
 such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No

 Indicate by check  mark if disclosure of delinquent filers  pursuant to Item
 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
 the  best pf  registrant's  knowledge, in  definitive  proxy or  information
 statements incorporated  by reference in Part  III of this Form  10-K or any
 amendment to this Form 10-K.  [  ]

 Indicate by  check mark whether the  Registrant is an accelerated  filer (as
 defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
 Yes  X     No

 As of August 21, 2003, the  Registrant had 88,560,346 shares of Common Stock
 outstanding ($.01 par  value).  On that date, the  aggregate market value of
 the  Common  Stock held  by  persons  other than  those  who  may be  deemed
 affiliates of Registrant was  $1,332,458,488 (based  on the  average of  the
 reported  high and  low sales prices on NASDAQ on such date).

<PAGE>

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 Certain sections  of the Company's Notice of  Annual Meeting of Stockholders
 and Proxy Statement  for its 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy
 Statement"), as described  in the footnotes  to the Table of Contents below,
 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.


                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

    PART I                                                     Page Reference
                                                               --------------
    ITEM 1.     BUSINESS                                              3

    ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES                                           12

    ITEM 3.     LEGAL PRECEEDINGS                                    13

    ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
                SECURITY HOLDERS                                     13

    PART II

    ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
                AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS                      14

    ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA                              15

    ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS        15

    ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
                ABOUT MARKET RISK                                    21

    ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA          22

    ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
                ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE               42

    ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES                              42

    PART III

    ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
                THE REGISTRANT (1)                                   43

    ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (2)                           43

    ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
                AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS (3)   43

    ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS (4)   43

    ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES (5)           43

    PART IV

    ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
                REPORTS ON FORM 8-K                                  43


 (1)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Election of Directors", "Corporate
      Governance," "Audit Committee Report," "Executive Officers and
      Significant Employees," and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
      Reporting Compliance."
 (2)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Executive Compensation",
      "Compensation Committee Report", and "Company Performance."
 (3)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Stock Ownership of Certain
      Stockholders," "Election of Directors," and "Equity
      Compensation Plan Information."
 (4)  Proxy Statement section entitled "Certain Relationships and Related
      Transactions."
 (5)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Audit Committee Report" and
      "Independent Auditors - Audit and Non-Audit Fees."

<PAGE>

                                     PART I
 Item 1   Business
 ------   --------
 Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. ("JHA" or the "Company") is a leading provider
 of integrated  computer systems  providing  data processing  and  management
 information to banks, credit unions and other financial institutions in  the
 United States.  The Company was formed  in 1976 and made its initial  public
 offering in 1985. Since  our formation, JHA has  grown by developing  highly
 specialized products and services  for its financial institution  customers,
 acquiring organizations that complemented and added to the infrastructure of
 the Company and adding new customers.

 We offer a complete, integrated suite of data processing system solutions to
 improve  our  customers'   management  of  their   entire  back-office   and
 customer/member interaction processes.  We believe our solutions enable  our
 financial institution customers to provide better service to their customers
 and  compete  more  effectively  against  other  banks,  credit  unions  and
 alternative financial institutions.   Our customers  either install and  use
 our systems in-house or outsource these  operations to us.  We perform  data
 conversion and hardware and software installation for the implementation  of
 our systems and applications.  We  also provide continuing customer  support
 services  to  ensure  proper  product  performance  and  reliability,  which
 provides us with continuing client relationships and recurring revenue.  For
 our customers who prefer  not to acquire hardware  and software, we  provide
 outsourcing services through eight data centers and sixteen item  processing
 centers located across the United States.

 Our gross revenue  has grown from  $204.3 million in  fiscal 1999 to  $404.7
 million in fiscal 2003, representing a compound annual growth rate over this
 five-year period  of 21.0%.   Net  income has  grown from  $32.7 million  in
 fiscal 1999 to $49.4 million in  fiscal 2003, a compound annual growth  rate
 of 15.3%.

 Industry Background

 According to the Automation in Banking 2003 report, United States  financial
 institutions,  including  commercial  banks,  thrifts  and  credit   unions,
 increased spending on hardware, software, services and telecommunications to
 $41.6 billion in calendar  2002 from $34.3 billion  in 1999, representing  a
 compound annual growth rate of 6.0%.  The increase of industry spending  was
 2.4% from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002. Industry surveys  continue
 to show that financial institutions believe upgrading information technology
 is one  of the  most important  issues  to their  continued success  and  to
 enhance growth and efficiencies.  We believe that the market opportunity for
 providers of hardware and software systems, maintenance, support and related
 outsourcing services targeted toward financial institutions will continue to
 grow as  a  result of  the  competitive pressures  within  their  respective
 industries.

 There  are  approximately  8,400  commercial banks  and  9,900 credit unions
 in  the  United  States.  Our  primary  market  segment,  which  represented
 approximately 85% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003, is commercial
 banks  with  less  than  $30.0  billion  in  assets,  of  which  there  were
 approximately  8,350   at  December  31,  2002.   Consolidation  within  the
 financial services industry has resulted in a 2% compound annual  decline in
 the population of  commercial banks and  a 1.2% compound  annual decline  in
 their aggregate assets between  1999 and 2002. Our  other market segment  is
 credit unions within the United States, and represented approximately 15% of
 our total revenues in  fiscal 2003.   These are cooperative,  not-for-profit
 financial institutions organized  to promote savings  and provide credit  to
 their members.   As of  December 31,  2002, there  were approximately  9,900
 federally insured credit unions in the  United States.  Although the  number
 of these credit unions has declined  at a 3.0% compound annual rate  between
 1999 and 2002, their  aggregate assets have increased  at a compound  annual
 growth rate of 9.7% to $557.1 billion at December 31, 2002.

 We believe that  commercial and  regional banks  and credit  unions play  an
 important role  with  the geographic  and  demographic communities  and  the
 customers they serve.  Typically, customers of these financial  institutions
 rely on them because of their ability to provide personalized, relationship-
 based service and their focus on retail, commercial and business needs.   We
 believe these core strengths will allow our financial institution  customers
 to effectively  compete  with other  banks,  credit unions  and  alternative
 financial institutions.  In order to succeed and to maintain strong customer
 relationships, we believe these banks and credit unions must continue to:

      *    focus on  excellence in  delivery to  customers of  their  primary
           products and service offerings;

      *    sell more  products and  services  to existing  customers  through
           utilization of customer relationship management ("CRM") products;

      *    implement  advanced  technologies,   such  as  imaging,   platform
           automation and Internet banking;

      *    use advanced  technologies in  back-office operations  to  improve
           operating efficiency and control costs,  while increasing  service
           and lowering costs to their customers; and

      *    integrate products  and services  into their  core,  complementary
           service offerings and data  processing infrastructure, to  provide
           competitive products and services to their customers.

 According to Automation in  Banking 2003, in 2002  approximately 56% of  all
 commercial banks and 69% of all credit unions utilized in-house hardware and
 software systems to perform  all of their core  systems and data  processing
 functions.  Off-site data processing centers provided system services on  an
 outsourced basis for 44% of all banks and  31% of all credit unions.   Since
 the mid-1980s, banks have tended to shift their data processing requirements
 in-house from outsourcing such  functions to third-party  data centers.   Of
 the commercial banks with under $500  million of total assets in the  United
 States with  in-house  installations, approximately  51%,  25%, 9%,  and  8%
 utilize IBM, Unisys, other Unix-based platforms  and NCR, respectively.   No
 other specific hardware platform had more than a 7% share of the market.

 The Internet continues to  become a more powerful  and efficient medium  for
 the  delivery  of  financial  services,  including  Internet  banking,  bill
 payment, bill  presentment  and other  services  for individuals,  and  cash
 management and  other services  for the  commercial customers  of  financial
 institutions.  Financial institutions provide Internet banking solutions  to
 retain  customers,  attract  new  customers,  reduce  operating  costs,  and
 gain non-interest  sources  of  revenue.   According  to  industry  sources,
 approximately 65% of  banks and 64%  of credit unions  in the United  States
 offer Internet banking.  We believe that commercial banks and credit  unions
 have a potential risk of losing customers to other financial institutions if
 they do not offer competitive Internet banking services.

 Our Solution

 We are a  single-source provider of  a comprehensive and  flexible suite  of
 integrated products and services that address the information technology and
 data  processing  needs  of  financial  institutions  on  various   hardware
 platforms and operating systems.  Our  business derives revenues from  three
 primary sources which include gross customer reimbursements received for out
 of pocket expenses incurred and reported in the respective lines of revenue:

      *    sales of software licenses;

      *    support and services fees which include installation services; and

      *    hardware sales.

 We develop  software applications  designed primarily  for use  on  hardware
 supporting IBM  and UNIX/NT  operating systems.   Our  marketed product  and
 service offerings are  centered on five  proprietary software  applications,
 each  comprising  the  core  data  processing  and  information   management
 functions of a commercial bank or credit  union.  Any of these core  systems
 can be utilized  either through an  in-house or  outsourced delivery  method
 depending  on the financial institution's  management  style and philosophy.
 Key functions of each  of our core  software applications include  deposits,
 loans, and general ledger.  Our software applications make extensive use  of
 parameters allowing  our customers  to tailor  the software  to their  needs
 without  needing  to  customize  or  program  the  software.  Our   software
 applications are  designed to  provide maximum  flexibility in  meeting  our
 customer  data processing requirements within  a single,  integrated system.
 To complement  our  core software  applications,  we provide  a  variety  of
 complementary products and services for use on an in-house or an  outsourced
 basis by financial institutions.

 We believe our solutions  provide strategic advantages  to our customers  by
 enabling them to:

      *    Implement Advanced  Technologies  with Full  Functionality.    Our
           comprehensive suite of products and  services is designed to  meet
           our  customers'  information  technology  needs  through   custom-
           tailored solutions  using  proprietary  software  products.    Our
           clients can either  perform these functions  themselves on an  in-
           house basis through the installation of our hardware and  software
           systems or outsource those functions to us.

      *    Rapidly Deploy  New  Products  and Services.    Once  a  financial
           institution has implemented our core software, either in-house  or
           on an outsourced  basis, we  can quickly  and efficiently  install
           additional applications and functions.  This allows our  customers
           to rapidly deploy new products and services.

      *    Focus on Customer Relationships.  Our products and services  allow
           our customers  to  stay  focused  on  their  primary  business  of
           gaining, maintaining  and expanding  their customer  relationships
           while providing the latest financial products and services.

      *    Access Outsourcing  Solutions to  Improve Operating  Efficiency.
           Customers utilizing our outsourcing solutions benefit from  access
           to all of  our products and  services without  having to  maintain
           personnel to develop, update and run these systems without  having
           to make  large up-front  capital expenditures  to implement  these
           advanced technologies.

 Our Strategy

 Our objective is to grow our revenue and earnings organically,  supplemented
 by strategic acquisitions.  The key components of our business strategy  are
 to:

      *    Provide High  Quality, Value-Added  Products and  Services to  Our
           Clients.  We compete on the basis of providing our customers  with
           the highest-value products and services in the market.  We believe
           we have achieved  a reputation as  a premium  product and  service
           provider.

      *    Continue  to  Expand  Our  Product  and  Service  Offerings.    We
           continually upgrade our core software applications  and expand our
           complementary  product  and  service   offerings  to  respond   to
           technological  advances  and  the  changing  requirements  of  our
           clients.  For  example, we offer  several turn-key  solutions that
           enable financial institutions to rapidly deploy  sophisticated new
           products and  services.    Our  integrated  solutions  enable  our
           customers to offer competitive  services relative to larger  banks
           and alternative financial institutions.  We intend to  continue to
           expand our  range  of  Internet banking  and  other  products  and
           services as well  as provide additional  services such as  network
           services and computer facilities design.

      *    Expand Our Existing Customer Relationships.   We seek to  increase
           the information  technology products  and services  we provide  to
           those customers that do not utilize our full range of products and
           services.  In  this way,  we are  able to  increase revenues  from
           current customers  with  minimal additional  sales  and  marketing
           expenses.

      *    Expand  Our  Customer  Base.    We  seek  to  establish  long-term
           relationships with new customers  through our sales and  marketing
           efforts and selected acquisitions.   As of June  30, 2003, we  had
           over 3,000 customers, up from 1,400 in 1999.

      *    Build Recurring Revenue.  We  enter into contracts with  customers
           to provide services that meet their information technology  needs.
           We provide  ongoing  software  support for our in-house customers.
           Additionally, we  provide  data  processing  for  our  outsourcing
           customers  and  ATM  transaction   switching  services,  both   on
           contracts that typically extend for periods of up to five years.

      *    Maximize Economies of Scale.  We strive to develop and maintain  a
           sufficiently large  client  base  to create  economies  of  scale,
           enabling us to provide value-priced  products and services to  our
           clients while expanding our operating margins.

      *    Attract and Retain Capable Employees.   We believe attracting  and
           retaining high-quality  employees is  essential to  our  continued
           growth and success.  Our corporate culture focuses on the needs of
           employees, a  strategy we  believe has  resulted in  low  employee
           turnover.  In addition, we selectively use employee stock  options
           to serve as a strong incentive and retention tool.  In April 2003,
           the Company  granted  approximately  3,670,000  stock  options  to
           approximately 2,100 full time employees, or  94% of all full  time
           employees as of that date.

 Our Acquisitions

 To complement and  accelerate our  internal growth,  we selectively  acquire
 companies that provide us with one or more of the following:

      *    new customers;

      *    products and services to complement our existing offerings;

      *    additional outsourcing capabilities; and

      *    entry into new markets related to financial institutions.

 When evaluating  acquisition opportunities,  we focus  on companies  with  a
 strong  employee   base  and   management   team  and   excellent   customer
 relationships.    Since  fiscal  1999,  we  have  completed  the   following
 acquisitions:

 Fiscal
  Year    Company                       Products and Services
  ----    -------                       ---------------------
  2003    National Bancorp Data         Item Processing
          Services, LLC
  2003    Credit Union Solutions, Inc   Data processing systems and services
                                        for smaller credit unions
  2002    Transcend Systems Group       Customer Relationship Management
                                        software and related services
  2002    System Legacy Solutions       Image data conversion systems
  2000    Symitar Systems, Inc.         Data processing systems and services
                                        for credit unions
  2000    Sys-Tech, Inc.                Uninterruptible power supply systems
                                        and computer facilities design
  2000    BancData Systems              Outsourcing services
  2000    Open Systems Group            UNIX/NT-based data processing systems
                                        for banks
  1999    Peerless Group                Data processing systems for banks and
                                        credit unions
  1999    Digital Data Services         Outsourcing services
  1999    Hewlett Computer Services     Item Processing


 Our Products and Services

 Changing  technologies,  business  practices  and  financial  products  have
 resulted in issues  of compatibility, scalability  and increased  complexity
 for the hardware and software used in many financial institutions.  We  have
 responded to these issues by developing a fully integrated suite of products
 and services consisting of core software systems, hardware and complementary
 products and services.  These address virtually all of a commercial bank  or
 credit  union's  customer  interaction,  back-office  data  and  information
 processing needs.

 We provide our full range of products and services to financial institutions
 on either an in-house or outsourced  basis.  For those customers who  prefer
 to purchase  systems for  their in-house  facilities,  we contract  to  sell
 computer hardware, license core and  complementary software and contract  to
 provide installation,  data conversion,  training  and ongoing  support  and
 other services.

 We also  offer  our full  suite  of software  products  and services  on  an
 outsourced basis to customers  who do not wish  to maintain, update and  run
 these systems or to  make large up-front  capital expenditures to  implement
 these advanced  technologies.   Our  principal  outsourcing service  is  the
 delivery of mission-critical data processing services using our data centers
 located within  the United  States.   We  provide our  outsourcing  services
 through an extensive national data and service center network, comprised  of
 8 data centers and 16 item processing centers.  We monitor and maintain  our
 network on a seven-day, 24-hour basis.  Customers typically pay monthly fees
 on service contracts of up to 5 years for these services.

 Information regarding  the  classification  of our  business  into  separate
 segments serving the  banking and credit  union industries is  set forth  in
 Note 13 to the Financial Statements (see item 8 below).

 Hardware Systems

 Our software operates  on a variety  of hardware systems.   We have  entered
 into remarketing agreements with IBM, NCR and other hardware providers which
 allow us to purchase hardware  at a discount and  sell (remarket) it to  our
 customers together with our  software applications.   We currently sell  the
 IBM iSeries,  which is  IBM's premier  mid-range  hardware system,  the  IBM
 pSeries, NCR servers and  reader/sorters, BancTec reader/sorters and  Unisys
 reader/sorters.

 We have a long-term strategic relationship  with IBM, dating to the  initial
 design  of our first core software applications  more than 20 years ago.  In
 addition to our remarketing agreement with IBM, which we regularly renew, we
 have been named  a "Premier Business  Partner'' of IBM  for the last  eleven
 consecutive years.  Our relationship with IBM provides us with a substantial
 and ongoing source of revenue.

 Core Software Applications

 Each of  our  core software  systems  consists of  several  fully-integrated
 application modules,  such  as  deposits, loans,  general  ledger,  and  the
 customer information file, which is  a centralized file containing  customer
 data for all  applications.  We  can custom-tailor  these modules  utilizing
 parameters determined by our customer. The applications can be connected  to
 a  wide  variety   of  peripheral   hardware  devices   used  in   financial
 institution's  operations.  Our  software  is  designed to  provide  maximum
 flexibility in meeting our customers' data processing requirements within  a
 single system to minimize data entry and improve efficiencies.

 For our customers who choose to acquire in-house capabilities, we  generally
 license our core system under standard license agreements, which provide the
 customer with a fully-paid, nonexclusive,  nontransferable right to use  the
 software on a single computer and at a single location.  These same  systems
 can be delivered on an outsourced basis as well.

 Our core  software  applications  are  differentiated  broadly  by  size  of
 customer, scalability, functionality, customer competitive environment  and,
 to a lesser extent, cost.  Our core applications include:

 Banking Segment

      *    Silverlake System[R], which  operates on  the IBM  iSeries and  is
           used primarily by banks with total assets up to $30.0 billion;

      *    CIF 20/20[R],  which  operates on  the  IBM iSeries  and  is  used
           primarily by banks with total assets up to $300.0 million;

      *    Core Director[R], which operates on hardware supporting a  UNIX/NT
           environment  and  is   used  by   banks  employing   client-server
           technology.

 Credit Union Segment

      *    Episys[TM], which  operates  on the  IBM  pSeries with  a  UNIX/NT
           operating system and is used primarily by credit unions with total
           assets greater that $25.0 million.

      *    Cruise[TM],  which  operates  on  the  IBM  xSeries  and  is  used
           primarily by credit unions with total assets under $25.0 million.

 Complementary Products and Services

 To  enhance  our  core  software  applications,  we  provide  a  number   of
 complementary products and services, including:

     *  Vertex Teller  Automation System[TM] is  an online teller  automation
        system that enables tellers to process transactions more  efficiently
        and with greater accuracy.

     *  Streamline Platform  Automation[R] is a  fully-automated new  account
        origination and  documentation preparation  solution that  integrates
        new customer data, including signature cards, disclosure  statements,
        and loan applications  into the core customer  data files on a  real-
        time basis.

     *  SuperIMAGE[TM]  is  a  check  image  system  that  provides  enhanced
        integration, automation, and dependability in item imaging

     *  4|sight[TM] item  image solutions is  our new  generation of  imaging
        products,  which allows  our customers  to create  and store  digital
        check images  for inclusion in  monthly statements, facilitate  their
        customer support services and leverage their investments with  system
        integration.

     *  Silhouette   Document  Imaging[R]   utilizes  digital   storage   and
        retrieval technology  to provide  online instant  access to  document
        images, such as loan documents and signature cards.

     *  PinPoint/WinPoint  Report Retrieval[TM]  enables system-wide  storage
        and   retrieval   of  computer-generated   reports   for   simplified
        information access.

     *  NetTeller  Online  Banking[TM] and  NetTeller  MemberConnect  Web[TM]
        provides Internet-based home banking and commercial cash  management.
        See "Online Banking"  below.

     *  PowerPay[TM] is an internet bill payment solution.

     *  NetTeller Cash  Management is  an internet  cash management  solution
        for  small and  large  businesses  providing complete  ACH  and  wire
        transfer capabilities over the internet.

     *  InTouch  Voice Response[TM]  provides a  fully-automated  interactive
        voice response  system for 24-hour  telephone-based customer  account
        management.

     *  Centurion   Disaster  Recovery[R]   provides  multi-tiered   disaster
        recovery protection,  including comprehensive  disaster planning  and
        procedures.

     *  TimeTrack   Payroll   System  [TM]is   a   fully-integrated   payroll
        accounting and human resources software system.

     *  FormSmart[R] provides day-to-day operating forms, year-end tax  forms
        and other printing and office supplies.

     *  PassPort[TM]  ATM   &  transaction   processing  solutions   provides
        national switching  and processing services for  ATM, debit card  and
        point-of-sale transactions.

     *  Matrix Network Services[TM] provides network design,  implementation,
        security and related consulting services to financial institutions

     *  Synapsys[TM]  provides  a powerful  stand  alone  tool  for  customer
        relationship management (CRM).

     *  OnTarget[TM] provides  a fully integrated  deposit platform,  lending
        platform and  teller solution  for our  Core Director  and Banker  II
        customers  through a  partnering  alliance with  ARGO  Data  Resource
        Corporation ("ARGO").

     *  ARGOKeys[TM] is  a suite  of platform  sales and  automation and  CRM
        solutions for  clients using our  Silverlake core systems,  including
        depositkeys, the deposit platform solution; lendingkeys, the  lending
        platform solution;  and relationshipkeys,  the customer  relationship
        management solution.   ARGOKeys is a joint product delivered  through
        our alliance with ARGO.

 Other software  products such  as proof  of deposit,  secondary market  loan
 servicing,  account   reclassification,   and  investment   sweeps   further
 complement our core systems.

 Installation and Training

 Although not a  requirement of the  software contract, the  majority of  our
 customers contract  with  us  for  installation  and  training  services  in
 connection  with  their  purchase  of   in-house   systems.   The   complete
 installation process of a core  system typically includes planning,  design,
 data conversion, hardware set-up  and testing.  At  the culmination of  this
 installation  process,  one  of  our  installation  teams  travels  to   our
 customer's facilities  to ensure  the smooth  transfer of  data to  the  new
 system.  Installation fees are charged separately to our customers on either
 a fixed fee or hourly charge model depending on the system, with full  pass-
 through  to  our  customers  of travel  and  other  expenses.   Installation
 services are also required in connection with new outsourcing customers, and
 are billed separately at the time of installation.

 Both in connection with installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis,
 our customers  require,  and we  provide,  extensive training  services  and
 programs related to our products and services.  Training can be provided  in
 our regional training centers, at meetings and conferences or onsite at  our
 customers'  locations,  and  can  be  customized  to  meet  our   customers'
 requirements.  The large majority of our customers acquire training services
 from us, both to improve their  employees' proficiency and productivity  and
 to make full use of the  functionality of our systems.  Generally,  training
 services are paid  for on an  hourly basis, however,  we have recently  been
 successful  in  marketing  annual   subscriptions  for  training   services,
 representing blocks of training time that can be used by our customers in  a
 flexible fashion and the related revenue  is recognized as the services  are
 provided.

 Support and Services

 Following the installation of our  integrated software and hardware  systems
 at a customer site, we provide  ongoing software support services to  assist
 our customers in operating the systems.  We also offer support services  for
 hardware, primarily through our hardware suppliers, providing customers  who
 have contracted for  this service with  "one-call'' system support  covering
 hardware and software applications.

 Support is provided  through a 24-hour  telephone service  available to  our
 customers seven days  a week. Most  questions and problems  can be  resolved
 quickly by our experienced support staff.  For more complicated issues,  our
 staff, with our customers' permission, can log on to our customers'  systems
 remotely.   We maintain  our customers'  software largely  through  releases
 which contain  improvements and  incremental additions.   Updates  also  are
 issued when required  by changes  in applicable  laws and  regulations.   We
 provide support services on  our core systems as  well as our  complementary
 software products.

 Nearly all of our  in-house customers contract  for annual support  services
 from us.  These services are a significant source of recurring revenue,  are
 contracted for on an annual basis and are typically priced at  approximately
 18 to 20% of the particular software product's license fee.  These fees will
 increase as our  customers' asset base  increases and as  they increase  the
 level  of   functionality  of   their   system  by   purchasing   additional
 complementary products.  Software support fees are generally billed at  June
 30 and are paid in advance for  the entire fiscal year, with pro-ration  for
 new contracts which start during the year at the time of final conversion.
 Hardware support  fees are  also paid  in advance  for the  entire  contract
 period which ranges from  one to five years.   Most contracts  automatically
 renew annually unless  we or  our customer  gives notice  of termination  at
 least 60 days  prior to expiration.   Identical support  is provided to  our
 outsourced customers by the same support personnel, but is included as  part
 of their overall monthly fees and therefore not billed separately.

 Online Banking

 We provide a suite of fully  integrated Internet products and services  that
 enables financial  institutions to  offer  Internet banking  and  e-commerce
 solutions to their customers.  Our offerings include:

     *  NetTeller[R], an  Internet-based home banking  system for  individual
        customers and  commercial cash management  for business customers  of
        banks;

     *  DirectLine  allows NetTeller  customers  to offer  a  direct  connect
        service  utilizing  personal financial  management  tools  for  their
        customers.

     *  MemberConnect  Web[TM], an  Internet-based  home banking  system  for
        credit union members;

     *  PowerPay[TM] , which allows customers to pay bills online; and

     *  Netharbor[R],  which  provides our  bank  customers  with  a  custom-
        branded web portal that enables them to provide their customers  with
        a variety of information and e-commerce opportunities.

 Customer Relationship Management

 We offer several different CRM solutions for our customers:

     *  Synapsys[TM]  is a  powerful  stand-alone tool  integrated  with  our
        strategic core products and provides an enterprise-wide  relationship
        management solution  for both  retail and  commercial customers  that
        integrates  sales  management, customer  profiling,  automated  sales
        tracking,  profitability  assessment, lead  generation  and  referral
        tracking capabilities;

     *  The ARGOKeys[TM]  is the Argo/JHA joint  solution for our  Silverlake
        customers  that  provides   an  enterprise  wide  branch  sales   and
        automation  solution,  including   a  deposit  platform,  a   lending
        platform with an  advanced automated decision module, and a  complete
        CRM solution,  all of  which is fully  integrated with  our core  and
        teller systems.

 Research and Development

 We devote significant effort  and expense to  develop new software,  service
 products  and  continually  upgrade  and  enhance  our  existing  offerings.
 Typically, we  upgrade  our  core software  applications  and  complementary
 services once per year.  We believe our research and development efforts are
 highly efficient because  of the extensive  experience of  our research  and
 development staff and  because our product  development is highly  customer-
 driven.  Through our regular contact with customers at user group  meetings,
 sales contacts and through our  ongoing maintenance services, our  customers
 inform us of the new products and functionalities they desire.

 Sales and Marketing

 Our primary markets consist of commercial banks and credit unions.  We  have
 not devoted  significant  marketing and  sales  efforts to  other  financial
 institutions such as thrifts.

 Our sales  efforts are  conducted by  dedicated field  sales forces,  inside
 sales teams  and technical  sales  support teams,  for  each of  our  market
 segments,  all  of  which  are  overseen  by  regional sales  managers.  Our
 dedicated field  sales force  is responsible  for pursuing  lead  generation
 activities and representing the  majority of our  products and solutions  to
 current and  prospective clients.   Our  inside  sales force  sells  certain
 complementary products to our existing customers.  All sales force personnel
 have responsibility for a specific territory.  The sales support team writes
 business proposals  and contracts  and  prepares responses  to  request-for-
 proposals regarding our software and hardware  solutions.  All of our  sales
 professionals  receive  a  base  salary  and  performance-based   commission
 compensation.

 Our marketing efforts consist of sponsorship and attendance at trade  shows,
 e-mail newsletters, print media advertisement placements, telemarketing, and
 national and regional  marketing campaigns.   We  also conduct  a number  of
 national user group  meetings each year,  which enable us  to keep in  close
 contact with  our customers  and demonstrate  new products  and services  to
 them.

 We have 38 installations  in the Caribbean  primarily through the  marketing
 efforts  of   our  wholly-owned   foreign  sales   subsidiary,  Jack   Henry
 International Limited.  Our international sales  accounted for less than  1%
 of our total revenues.

 Backlog

 Our backlog consists of contracted in-house products and services (prior  to
 delivery)  and  the  minimum  amounts  due  on  the  remaining  portion   of
 outsourcing  contracts,  which  are  typically  for  five-year  periods  and
 represents the  minimum  guaranteed  payments  over  the  remainder  of  the
 contract period.  Our  backlog at June  30, 2003 was  $69.5 million for  in-
 house products and  services and  $113.7 million  for outsourcing  services,
 with a total backlog of $183.1 million. Of the $113.7 million amount of  the
 backlog for  outsourcing service  at June  30, 2003,  $80.5 million  is  not
 expected to be  realized in  our current fiscal  year due  to the  long-term
 nature of many of  our outsourcing service contracts.   Backlog at June  30,
 2002 was $52.8 million for in-house products and services and $88.9  million
 for outsourcing  services, with  a total  backlog of  $141.7  million.   Our
 backlog is subject to seasonal variations and can fluctuate quarterly due to
 various factors,  including  slower  contract processing  rates  during  the
 summer months.

 Competition

 The  market  for  companies  providing  technology  solutions  to  financial
 institutions  is  competitive  and  fragmented,  and  we  expect   continued
 competition from  both  existing  competitors  and  companies  entering  our
 existing or future  markets.  Some  of our current  competitors have  longer
 operating histories, larger customer bases and greater financial  resources.
 The  principal competitive  factors affecting  the market  for our  services
 include comprehensiveness of the  applications, features and  functionality,
 flexibility and  ease of  use, customer  support, references  from  existing
 customers and price.  We compete  with large vendors that offer  transaction
 processing  products  and  services  to  financial  institutions,  including
 Fidelity Information Services,  Inc., Fiserv, Inc.,  Intercept and  Marshall
 and Ilsley Corporation.  In addition, we compete with a number of  providers
 that offer one  or more specialized  products or services.   There has  been
 significant consolidation among providers of information technology products
 and services to  financial institutions, and  we believe this  consolidation
 will continue in the future.

 Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks

 Although we believe that  our success depends  upon our technical  expertise
 more than  on our  proprietary rights,  our future  success and  ability  to
 compete depends in part upon our proprietary technology.  We have registered
 or filed applications for our primary trademarks.  None of our technology is
 patented.   Instead,  we  rely on a  combination of  contractual rights  and
 copyrights, trademarks  and  trade  secrets to  establish  and  protect  our
 proprietary technology.  We generally enter into confidentiality  agreements
 with  our  employees,  consultants,   resellers,  customers  and   potential
 customers.  We restrict  access to and distribution  of our source code  and
 further limit  the disclosure  and use  of other  proprietary information.
 Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized  parties
 may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology.
 We cannot be sure the steps taken by us  in this regard will be adequate  to
 prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will  not
 independently develop technologies are substantially equivalent or  superior
 to our technology.

 Government Regulation

 The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex  federal
 and state regulation.  Our current and prospective customers, which  consist
 of financial  institutions  such  as  community/regional  banks  and  credit
 unions, operate  in  markets  that are  subject  to  substantial  regulatory
 oversight and supervision.   We must ensure our  products and services  work
 within the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to  our
 customers, including those under the federal truth-in-lending and  truth-in-
 savings rules,  usury  laws, the  Equal  Credit Opportunity  Act,  the  Fair
 Housing Act, the Electronic  Funds Transfer Act,  the Fair Credit  Reporting
 Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act,
 and the Community  Reinvestment Act.   The  compliance of  our products  and
 services with these requirements depends on  a variety of factors  including
 the particular functionality, the interactive design and the  classification
 of customers.  Our customers must  assess and determine what is required  of
 them under these regulations  and they contract with  us to ensure that  our
 products and services conform to their regulatory needs.  It is not possible
 to predict the impact any of these regulations could have on our business in
 the future.

 We are not chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, the Board
 of Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve  System, the  National  Credit  Union
 Administration or other federal or state agencies that regulate or supervise
 depository institutions.  The services provided by our OutLink Data  Centers
 are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institution  Examination
 Council regulators under the  Bank Service Company Act.   On occasion  these
 services are also subject to examination by state banking authorities.

 We provide outsourced  data and item  processing through our  geographically
 dispersed OutLink Data  Centers, electronic  transaction processing  through
 PassPort  ATM   and  Transaction  Processing  Solutions,   Internet  banking
 through  NetTeller online  banking,  and  bank  business  recovery  services
 through Centurion Disaster Recovery.  As a  service  provider  to  financial
 institutions,  our   operations  are   governed  by   the  same   regulatory
 requirements as those imposed on financial institutions.  We are subject  to
 periodic review by federal depository institution regulators who have  broad
 supervisory authority to remedy any shortcomings identified in such reviews.

 Employees

 As of June 30,  2003 and 2002, we  had 2,257 and  2,093 full time  employees
 respectively.   Our employees  are not  covered by  a collective  bargaining
 agreement and there have been no labor-related work stoppages.  We  consider
 our relationship with our employees to be good.

 Available Information

 Our internet website is easily accessible to the public at www.jackhenry.com
 Our  key corporate governance documents and our Code of  Conduct  addressing
 matters  of  business  ethics  are  available  in  the  "Investor Relations"
 portion of the  website,  together with archives of press releases and other
 materials.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on  Form 10-Q,
 Current  Reports  on Form 8-K, and other filings and amendments thereto that
 we  make  with  the  U.S.  Securities  Exchange  Commission  (the "SEC") are
 available free of charge on the website  as  soon  as reasonably practicable
 after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC.


                                 RISK FACTORS

 The Company's business  and the results  of its operations  are affected  by
 numerous factors and uncertainties, some of which are beyond their  control.
 The following is  a  description of some of  the important risk factors  and
 uncertainties that may cause the actual results of the Company's  operations
 in future  periods to  differ materially  from those  currently expected  or
 desired.

 Changes  within  the banking industry could  reduce demand for our products.
 In the current  environment of  low interest  rates, the  profit margins  of
 commercial  banks  and  credit  unions  have narrowed.  As the  economy  has
 stumbled, loan demand has slackened and loan defaults have increased.  As  a
 result, many banks have slowed or stopped their capital spending,  including
 spending on  computer software  and hardware,  affecting both  sales to  new
 customers and upgrade/complimentary product sales to existing customers.

 We may not be able to manage rapid growth.   We have grown at a rapid  pace,
 both internally  and  through  acquisitions.  Our  expansion  has  and  will
 continue to place  significant demands on  our administrative,  operational,
 financial and management personnel and systems.   We cannot assure you  that
 we will be able to enhance and expand our product lines, manage costs, adapt
 our infrastructure and modify our systems to accommodate future growth.

 If we fail to adapt our products  and services to changes in technology,  we
 could lose existing customers  and be unable to  attract new business.   The
 markets  for  our   software  and   hardware  products   and  services   are
 characterized by  changing  customer requirements  and  rapid  technological
 changes.   These  factors and  new  product introductions  by  our  existing
 competitors or  by new  market  entrants could  reduce  the demand  for  our
 existing products and services and we may be required to develop or  acquire
 new products and services.  Our  future success is dependent on our  ability
 to enhance our  existing products  and services in  a timely  manner and  to
 develop or acquire new products and services.   If we are unable to  develop
 or acquire new products and services  as planned, or fail to achieve  timely
 market acceptance of our new or enhanced products and services, we may incur
 unanticipated expenses, lose sales or fail to achieve anticipated revenues.

 Acquisitions may be  costly and difficult  to integrate.   We have  acquired
 several  businesses  and   will  continue  to   explore  possible   business
 combinations in the future.   We may not  be able to successfully  integrate
 acquired  companies.  We  may  encounter  problems in  connection  with  the
 integration of  new businesses  including:  financial control  and  computer
 system compatibility; unanticipated costs; unanticipated quality or customer
 problems with  acquired  products  or services;  diversion  of  management's
 attention; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers
 and customers; loss of key employees; and significant amortization  expenses
 related to identifiable intangible assets.  Without additional acquisitions,
 we may not  be able  to grow and  to develop  new products  and services  as
 quickly as we  have in  the past  to meet  competitive challenges.   If  our
 integration strategies fail, our  business, financial condition and  results
 of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

 If our strategic  relationship with  IBM were  terminated, it  could have  a
 negative  impact  on  the  continuing  success of  our  business.   We  have
 developed a strategic relationship with IBM.  As part of this  collaborative
 relationship, we market and sell IBM hardware and equipment to our customers
 under an  IBM  Business Partner  Agreement  and resell  maintenance  on  IBM
 hardware products to our customers.  Much of our software is designed to  be
 compatible with the IBM hardware that is run by a majority of our customers.
  If  IBM  were   to  terminate   or  fundamentally   modify  our   strategic
 relationship, our  relationship  with our  customers  and our  revenues  and
 earnings would  suffer.   We could  also lose  software market  share or  be
 required to redesign existing products or develop new products that would be
 compatible with the hardware used by our customers.

 Competition may  result in  price reductions  and decreased  demand for  our
 products and services.  We expect  competition in the markets we serve  will
 remain vigorous.  We compete on  the basis of product quality,  reliability,
 performance, ease  of  use, quality  of  support  and  pricing.   We  cannot
 guarantee that we  will be able  to compete successfully  with our  existing
 competitors or with companies entering our  markets in the future.   Certain
 of our  competitors  have  strong  financial,  marketing  and  technological
 resources and, in some cases, a larger customer  base than we do.  They  may
 be able to adapt more quickly to  new or emerging technologies or to  devote
 greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services.

 The loss of key employees could adversely affect our business.  We depend to
 a significant  extent  on the  contributions  and abilities  of  our  senior
 management.  Our  Company has grown  significantly in recent  years and  our
 management remains concentrated in a small  number of key employees.  If  we
 lose one or more of our key employees, we  could suffer a loss of sales  and
 delays in new product development, and management resources would have to be
 diverted from other activities to compensate for this loss.  We do not  have
 employment agreements  with  any  of our  executive  officers,  however,  we
 currently have a management succession plan in place.

 Consolidation of  financial  institutions could  reduce  the number  of  our
 customers  and  potential  customers.   Our  primary   market  consists   of
 approximately 8,400 commercial banks and 9,900 credit unions.  The number of
 commercial banks and credit unions has decreased as a result of mergers  and
 acquisitions over  the  last five  years  and  is expected  to  continue  to
 decrease as  more consolidation  occurs, which  will  reduce our  number  of
 potential  customers.  As  a  result  of  this consolidation,  some  of  our
 existing customers could terminate, or refuse to renew their contracts  with
 us and potential customers could break off negotiations with us.

 The  services  we  provide  to  our  customers  are  subject  to  government
 regulation that could hinder our ability to develop portions of our business
 or impose additional constraints on the way we conduct our operations.   The
 financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal  and
 state regulation.  As a supplier of services to financial institutions, some
 of our  operations are  examined by  the Office  of the  Comptroller of  the
 Currency, the  Federal  Reserve  Board and  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance
 Corporation, among  other  regulatory  agencies.   These  agencies  regulate
 services we provide and the manner in which we operate, and we are  required
 to  comply  with  a broad  range  of applicable  laws  and  regulations.  In
 addition, existing  laws,  regulations  and policies  could  be  amended  or
 interpreted differently by regulators in a manner that has a negative impact
 on  our  existing operations or that  limits our future growth or expansion.
 Our customers  are also  regulated entities,  and the  form and  content  of
 actions by regulatory  authorities could determine  both the decisions  they
 make concerning the purchase of data  processing and other services and  the
 timing and implementation of these decisions.  The development of  financial
 services over the  Internet has  raised concerns  with respect  to the  use,
 confidentiality and security  of private customer  information.   Regulatory
 agencies,  Congress  and   state  legislatures   are  considering   numerous
 regulatory and statutory proposals to protect the interests of consumers and
 to require compliance by the industry with standards and policies that  have
 not been defined.

 Network or  Internet  security  problems could  damage  our  reputation  and
 business.  We rely on standard  network and Internet security systems,  most
 of which  we  license  from  third parties,  to  provide  the  security  and
 authentication necessary to  effect secure transmission  of data.   Computer
 networks and the  Internet are vulnerable  to unauthorized access,  computer
 viruses and other disruptive  problems.  In  addition, advances in  computer
 capabilities, new discoveries in the field  of cryptography or other  events
 or developments may render our security measures inadequate.  Someone who is
 able  to  circumvent  security  measures  could  misappropriate  proprietary
 information or  cause  interruptions  in our  operations  or  those  of  our
 customers.  Security risks may result in liability to us and also may  deter
 financial institutions from purchasing our products.  We may need to  expend
 significant capital  or other  resources protecting  against the  threat  of
 security breaches or alleviating problems  caused by breaches.   Eliminating
 computer viruses  and  alleviating other  security  problems may  result  in
 interruptions, delays or cessation of service  to users, any of which  could
 harm our business.

 As technology becomes less expensive and  more advanced, purchase prices  of
 hardware  may  decline  and  our  revenues  and  profits  from   remarketing
 arrangements  may  decrease.   Computer   hardware  technology  is   rapidly
 developing.  Hardware  manufacturers are producing  less expensive and  more
 powerful equipment each year, and we expect this trend to continue into  the
 future.  As computer hardware becomes  less expensive, revenues and  profits
 derived from  our hardware  remarketing may  decrease and  become a  smaller
 portion of our revenues and profits.

 An operational failure in our outsourcing facilities could cause us to  lose
 customers.   Damage  or  destruction   that  interrupts  our  provision   of
 outsourcing services could  damage our relationship  with certain  customers
 and may  cause us  to  incur substantial  additional  expense to  repair  or
 replace damaged equipment.  Although we  have installed back-up systems  and
 procedures to prevent  or reduce disruption,  we cannot assure  you that  we
 will not  suffer  a prolonged  interruption  of our  transaction  processing
 services.  In the event that an interruption of our network extends for more
 than several hours, we may experience  data loss or a reduction in  revenues
 by reason of such interruption.  In addition, a significant interruption  of
 service could have a  negative impact on our  reputation and could lead  our
 present and potential customers to choose service providers other than us.

 Item 2   Properties
 ------   ----------
 We own  approximately 138  acres located  in Monett,  Missouri on  which  we
 maintain  eight  office  and  three  security,  shipping  &  receiving   and
 maintenance buildings.   We  also own  buildings in  Houston, Texas;  Allen,
 Texas;  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico;  Birmingham,  Alabama;  Angola,  Indiana;
 Lenexa, Kansas;  Shawnee,  Kansas;  Rogers,  Arkansas;  and  Oklahoma  City,
 Oklahoma.  Our owned facilities represent approximately 612,000 square  feet
 of office space.  We  have 28 leased office  facilities in 17 states,  which
 total approximately 211,000 square feet.   All of the space is utilized  for
 normal business purposes.

 Of these facilities,  leased office space  totaling approximately 44,500  in
 one facility  is devoted  primarily to  serving  our credit  union  business
 segment, with the remainder of our leased and all owned facilities primarily
 devoted to serving our banking business segment. Subsequent to year-end, the
 Company purchased  a 93,000  square  foot facility  in  San Diego,  CA.  for
 approximately $12.8 million, with costs  to complete the building  estimated
 at an additional  approximately $16 million.  This building  will serve  our
 credit union business segment.

 We own seven aircraft which are utilized for business purposes.  Many of our
 customers are located in communities that  do not have an easily  accessible
 commercial airline service.   We primarily use  our airplanes in  connection
 with installation, sales of systems and internal requirements for day to day
 operations.   Transportation  costs  for  installation  and  other  customer
 services are billed  to our customers.   We lease  property, including  real
 estate and related facilities, at the Monett, Missouri municipal airport.

 Item 3   Legal Proceedings
 ------   -----------------
 We are subject to  various routine legal proceedings  and claims arising  in
 the ordinary course of business. We do not expect that the results in any of
 these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our business,
 financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 Item 4   Submission of Matters To a Vote of Security Holders
 ------   ---------------------------------------------------
          None.


                                   PART II

 Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
 ------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the
 symbol "JKHY".  The following table  sets forth, for the periods  indicated,
 the high and low sales price  per share of the  common stock as reported  by
 the Nasdaq National Market.


                    Fiscal 2003           High       Low
                    -----------           -----     -----
                    First Quarter        $17.22    $11.76
                    Second Quarter        13.71      7.24
                    Third Quarter         14.89      9.90
                    Fourth Quarter        18.32     10.34

                    Fiscal 2002
                    -----------
                    First Quarter       $ 33.24   $ 20.00
                    Second Quarter        27.07     19.05
                    Third Quarter         24.49     20.80
                    Fourth Quarter        23.50     15.76


 The Company established a practice of paying quarterly dividends at the  end
 of fiscal 1990 and  has paid dividends with  respect to every quarter  since
 that time.  Quarterly dividends per share  paid on the common stock for  the
 two most recent fiscal years ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:

                    Fiscal 2003         Dividend
                    -----------           -----
                    First Quarter        $ .035
                    Second Quarter         .035
                    Third Quarter          .035
                    Fourth Quarter         .035

                    Fiscal 2002
                    -----------
                    First Quarter        $ .030
                    Second Quarter         .030
                    Third Quarter          .035
                    Fourth Quarter         .035

 The declaration and payment of any  future dividends will continue to be  at
 the discretion of our Board of  Directors and will depend upon, among  other
 factors, our earnings, capital  requirements, contractual restrictions,  and
 operating and financial condition.  The  Company does not currently  foresee
 any changes in its dividend practices.

 Information regarding the Company's equity  compensation plans is set  forth
 under the caption  "Equity Compensation Plan  Information" in the  Company's
 definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

 On August 21, 2003, there were approximately 46,800 holders of the Company's
 common stock.  On that same date the last sale price of the common shares as
 reported on NASDAQ was $19.31 per share.


 Item 6   Selected Financial Data
 ------   -----------------------

<TABLE>
                                       (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)

                                                 YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                -------------------------------------------------------
 Income Statement Data           2003        2002        2001*       2000*       1999*
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 <S>                           <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
 Revenue  (1)                  $404,627    $396,657    $366,903    $239,841    $204,324
 Income from continuing
   operations                  $ 49,397    $ 57,065    $ 55,631    $ 34,350    $ 32,726
 Loss from discontinued
   operations                  $      -    $      -    $      -    $    332    $    758
 Net income                    $ 49,397    $ 57,065    $ 55,631    $ 34,018    $ 31,968

 Diluted income per share:
  Income from continuing
    operations                 $   0.55    $   0.62    $   0.61    $   0.40    $   0.39
  Loss from discontinued
    operations                 $      -    $      -    $      -    $      -    $   0.01
  Net income                   $   0.55    $   0.62    $   0.61    $   0.40    $   0.38
 Dividends declared
   per share                   $   0.14    $   0.13    $   0.11    $   0.09    $   0.08

 Balance Sheet Data
 ------------------
 Working capital               $ 70,482    $ 67,321    $ 65,032    $(47,990)   $ 24,133
 Total assets                  $548,575    $486,142    $433,121    $321,082    $177,823
 Long-term debt                $      -    $      -    $    228    $    320    $    211
 Stockholders' equity          $365,223    $340,739    $302,504    $154,545    $115,798


 * Selected financial information for  2000 and  1999 have  been restated  to
 include all  acquisitions  that  have  been  accounted  for  as  pooling-of-
 interests as if each  had occurred at the  beginning of the earliest  period
 reported.  Revenue for the years ended  June 30, 2001,  2000, and 1999  have
 been restated for the adoption of  Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No.  01-
 14, "Income Statement Characterization  of Reimbursements Received for  'Out
 of Pocket' Expenses Incurred".

 (1)  Revenue includes license sales, support and service revenue, and
      hardware sales, less returns and allowances.

</TABLE>

 Item 7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
 ------   ---------------------------------------------------------------
          Results of Operations
          ---------------------

 The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the
 "Selected Financial Data"  and  the  consolidated financial  statements  and
 related notes included elsewhere in this report.

 OVERVIEW

 We  provide integrated computer systems  for  in-house and  outsourced  data
 processing to commercial banks  with under  $30.0 billion  in total  assets,
 credit  unions  and other  financial institutions.  We  have  developed  and
 acquired  banking and  credit  union application software  systems  that  we
 market,   together   with  compatible  computer   hardware,   to   financial
 institutions throughout the  United States.  We also perform data conversion
 and software installation for  the implementation of our systems and provide
 continuing customer  support services after the systems  are installed.  For
 our customers  who  prefer not  to make an  up-front capital  investment  in
 software and hardware, we provide our full range of products and services on
 an  outsourced  basis  through  our  eight  data  centers  and  sixteen item
 processing centers located throughout the United States.

 We derive revenues  from three primary sources, which include gross customer
 reimbursements received  for out of pocket expenses incurred and reported in
 the respective lines of revenue:

   - sales of software licenses;

   - support and service fees, which include installation services; and

   - hardware sales.

 Over the last five fiscal years, our revenues have grown from $204.3 million
 in fiscal 1999  to $404.6  million in  fiscal 2003.  Income from  continuing
 operations has grown from $32.7 million  in fiscal 1999 to $49.4 million  in
 fiscal 2003.  This growth  has resulted  primarily from  internal  expansion
 supplemented by strategic acquisitions, allowing  us to develop and  acquire
 new products and  services and expand  the number of  customers who use  our
 core software systems to approximately 2,450 as of June 30, 2003.

 Since July 1998, we have completed 11 accretive acquisitions. Nine of  these
 acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting  and
 our consolidated financial statements include  the results of operations  of
 the  acquired  companies  from  their  respective  acquisition  dates.   The
 remaining two acquisitions were accounted for using the pooling-of-interests
 method.

 License revenue represents  the sale  and delivery  of application  software
 systems contracted with  us by  the customer.   We  license our  proprietary
 software products under standard license agreements which typically  provide
 the customer  with  a  non-exclusive,  non-transferable  right  to  use  the
 software on  a  single  computer and  for  a  single  financial  institution
 location.  In revenue arrangements  with multiple  elements,  the components
 are all separately and independently priced  within  the related  contracts.
 Allocation of  revenue  is consistent  with  pricing when  each  product  or
 service is sold separately  establishing Vendor Specific Objective  Evidence
 ("VSOE"). Generally, 25% of license fees  are payable upon execution of  the
 license agreement  with additional  payments due  at specified  times  after
 contract signing.  We  recognize  100%  of  software  license  revenue  upon
 delivery and acceptance of the software and documentation.

 Support  and  services  fees   are  generated  from  installation   services
 contracted with us by the customer,  ongoing support services to assist  the
 customer in operating the  systems and to enhance  and update the  software,
 and from providing  outsourced data processing  services and  ATM and  debit
 card processing  services. We  recognize  installation services  revenue  as
 services are performed under hourly contracts  and at the completion of  the
 installations under fixed fee contracts.  Revenues from software support are
 generated pursuant to annual agreements and are recognized ratably over  the
 life of the agreements. Outsourcing services are performed through data  and
 item centers. Revenues from  outsourced  processing and  ATM and debit  card
 processing services  are derived  from monthly  usage fees  typically  under
 five-year service contracts  with our customers.  We recognize the  revenues
 under these contracts as services are performed.

 Cost of license fees represents the third party vendor costs associated with
 license fee revenue.

 Cost  of   services  represents   costs  associated   with  conversion   and
 installation efforts, ongoing support for our in-house customers,  operation
 of  our  data  and  item  centers  providing  services  for  our  outsourced
 customers, ATM  and debit  card processing  services, and  direct  operation
 costs. These costs are recognized as they are incurred.

 We  have  entered   into  remarketing  agreements   with  several   hardware
 manufacturers under which we sell computer hardware and related services  to
 our  customers.  Revenues  from  hardware  sales  are  recognized  when  the
 manufacturers ship the hardware directly to our customers. Cost of  hardware
 consists of the direct  and related costs of  purchasing the equipment  from
 the manufacturers and delivery to our customers. These costs are  recognized
 at the same time as the related revenue.

 We have two business  segments: bank systems and  services and credit  union
 systems and services.  The respective segments include all related  license,
 support and service, customer reimbursements  and hardware sales along  with
 the related cost of sales.


 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

 FISCAL 2003 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2002

 REVENUE - Revenues increased 2% from $396.7 million in fiscal 2002 to $404.6
 million in fiscal 2003. Compared to fiscal 2002, license fees decreased 27%;
 support and service revenues increased 14%, and hardware sales decreased 5%.
 Beginning in fiscal 2003,  customer reimbursements received for pass-through
 costs are  now included  and  presented in  the  correlating line  items  of
 support and service  or hardware revenues  and costs,  respectively.   Prior
 years have been reclassified to conform with the 2003 presentation.

 Reflecting the strength in new  outsourcing business, revenues from  support
 and services  continues to  grow,  increasing to  64%  of revenues  in  2003
 compared to 58% of 2002 revenues. The increase is composed of $10.8  million
 or 17% increase in outsourcing services,  $5.2 million or 24% growth in  ATM
 and debit card processing services, $16.4 million or 16% growth in  in-house
 support and  a  slight decrease  of  $0.6  million or  2%  for  installation
 services.  Recurring revenue (support and service revenue less  installation
 services) increased to 55% of total revenue in fiscal 2003 from 47% of total
 fiscal 2002 revenue.

 Continued softness in banking core system sales negatively impacted revenues
 from license fees  and hardware sales  in 2003. For  the year, license  fees
 dropped 27% to  $48.3 million  or 12% of  total 2003  revenues, compared  to
 $66.6 million, or 17% of 2002 revenues.  The decrease is due to the  overall
 reduced number of software  licenses delivered during the  year in our  bank
 segment. Hardware revenue  decreased 5% to  $95.9 million or  24% of  fiscal
 2003 revenues compared with $101.3 million or 26% of fiscal 2002 revenues.
 This decline is  primarily attributable to  the decrease  in software  sales
 which typically drives the sale of related hardware.

 COST OF SALES - Cost of sales increased 7% during the fiscal year, primarily
 due to  a 9%  increase in  employee  related expenses  included in  cost  of
 services.  Cost of license increased  55%, from $2.5 million in fiscal  2002
 to $3.9 million in fiscal 2003, primarily due to obligations to third  party
 vendors for  the software  we resell.   Cost  of services  increased 10%  to
 $178.3 million or 44% of revenue  in fiscal 2003 compared to $161.5  million
 or 41% of revenue in the fiscal 2002, which is in line with the increase  in
 revenue.  Cost of hardware decreased 3% from $71.4 million or 18% of revenue
 in year 2002 to $69.1 million or 17% of revenue in current 2003 fiscal year.

 GROSS PROFIT - Gross profit decreased 5% from $161.2 million in fiscal  2002
 to $153.3 million in fiscal  2003.  The total  gross margin for fiscal  2003
 was 38% compared  to 41% for  fiscal 2002.   Gross profit  on license  sales
 decreased $19.7 million or 31% and gross margin decreased from 96% in fiscal
 2002 to 92% in  fiscal 2003.  The  decrease in gross profit  was due to  the
 overall weakness in the capital goods market and the reduction in the margin
 is primarily due to decrease in license revenue, which is our highest margin
 revenue.

 Gross profit for  support and  services increased  $15.0 million  or 22%  in
 fiscal year  2003  compared to  fiscal  2002. Support  and  service  margins
 continue to strengthen to  32% this year from  29% in the  prior year.   The
 increase  is  primarily  due  to  increased  volumes,  increased  number  of
 customers and  continued  leveraging of  resources  in our  outsourcing  and
 ATM/Debit card processing services.

 Hardware gross margin for the current fiscal year 2003 was 28%, compared  to
 30% margin in fiscal  year 2002.   The decrease in  hardware margin for  the
 year is primarily attributable to the sales mix of products. In fiscal  2003
 our hardware  sales included  a higher  percentage of  servers and  personal
 computers  related  to  networks  than  in  2002.  Network  hardware  has  a
 significantly  lower  margin  than  midrange  hardware  and reader  sorters.
 Another contributing factor to  lower gross margin  has been reduced  vendor
 incentives in fiscal 2003.

 OPERATING EXPENSES - Operating expenses increased  2% for the current  year,
 with the majority of  the increase generated  from research and  development
 expenses. Research and development expenses went up by 27% to $15.9  million
 for fiscal 2003 as compared to $12.5 million for fiscal 2002.  The  increase
 is primarily attributable to a 27% increase in employee related expenses for
 ongoing development of new products and enhancements to existing products in
 both  segments  of  our  business.  Selling and  marketing  annual  expenses
 increased 4% to $30.7 million in  2003 compared to $29.4 million for  fiscal
 year 2002.  General  and  administrative expenses  decreased  10%  to  $29.5
 million this year from  $32.7 million in fiscal  year 2002, mainly due  from
 ongoing efforts to control expenses by management.

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)  - Interest income  (expense) decreased from  $1.8
 million in fiscal  2002 to  $0.5 million in  fiscal 2003.   Interest  income
 decreased 69% from $2.0 million to $0.6 million due to lower interest  rates
 on investments.  Interest expense decreased $81,000 from $191,000 in  fiscal
 year 2002 to $110,000  in fiscal 2003.   The decrease is  due to short  term
 borrowings being paid  off in January  2002, with  no additional  borrowings
 since that date.

 PROVISION FOR  INCOME TAXES  -  The provision  for  income taxes  was  $28.4
 million, or 36.5%  of income before  income taxes in  fiscal 2003,  compared
 with $31.4 million, or 36%  of income before income  taxes in fiscal 2002.
 The increase in the tax rate in the current fiscal year is due to changes in
 effective state income tax rates.

 NET INCOME  - Net  income decreased  13%  from $57.1  million, or  $.62  per
 diluted share in fiscal 2002 to $49.4 million, or $.55 per diluted share  in
 fiscal 2003.


 FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001

 REVENUE - Revenues  increased by 8%  from $366.9 million  in fiscal 2001  to
 $396.7 million  in fiscal  2002. Compared  to fiscal  2001, license  revenue
 decreased 5% from $70.1 million to $66.6 million in fiscal 2002; support and
 service revenue increased 23% from $185.8  million in fiscal 2001 to  $228.7
 million in fiscal 2002, and hardware sales decreased 9% from $111.0  million
 in fiscal 2001 to $101.3 million in fiscal 2002.

 License fees and hardware revenues were negatively impacted by the  sluggish
 economy following the  September 11th terrorist  attacks and  a decrease  in
 capital spending.  The support and  service revenues remained strong,  which
 was primarily  recurring revenue  from annual  in-house support  agreements,
 monthly data and item  center outsourcing contracts,  and processing of  ATM
 and debit card  transactions.  The  increase in fiscal  2002 is composed  of
 $10.9 million growth in outsourcing services, $6.2 million growth in ATM and
 debit card processing services, $21.8 million growth in in-house support and
 $4.1 million growth  in installation services.   Recurring revenue  (support
 and service revenue less  installation services) increased  to 47% of  total
 revenue in fiscal 2002 from 41% of total fiscal 2001 revenue.

 COST OF SALES -  Cost of sales  increased 9% from  $215.3 million in  fiscal
 2001 to  $235.4  million in  fiscal  2002, compared  to  an 8%  increase  in
 revenues. Cost of license  remained almost flat,  while the license  revenue
 decreased 5%.  Cost of services  increased 19% compared to the 23%  increase
 in support and service revenue. Cost of hardware decreased 7%, in line  with
 the decrease in hardware sales of 9%.   The total increase in cost of  sales
 is primarily  due to  a 10%  increase in  the number  of employees,  related
 benefits  and  increased  depreciation  expense  related  to  prior  capital
 expenditures.

 GROSS PROFIT  - Gross  profit increased  6% from  $151.6 million  or 41%  of
 revenue in  fiscal  2001 to  $161.2  million in  fiscal  2002, also  41%  of
 revenue. Gross profit decreased 5% in fiscal 2002 for license fees  compared
 to fiscal 2001.  Support and services gross profit increased 35% from  $49.6
 million in fiscal 2001 to $67.2 million in fiscal 2002 and the related gross
 margin increased  from 27%  to 29%  in fiscal  2002.   Hardware sales  gross
 profit decreased  from $34.4  million in  fiscal 2001  to $29.9  million  in
 fiscal 2002 and the gross margin was 30%  in fiscal 2002 compared to 31%  in
 fiscal 2001.   The  slight decrease  is due  to the  sales mix  and  reduced
 incentives from hardware suppliers.

 OPERATING EXPENSES - Operating expenses increased 13% from $65.9 million  in
 fiscal 2001 to $74.6 million in fiscal 2002.  Selling and marketing expenses
 increased 6%,  research  and  development  increased  15%  and  general  and
 administrative expenses increased 20% during fiscal 2002. Operating expenses
 rose due to increasing  employee benefit costs,  primarily due to  increased
 health care  costs and  increased depreciation  expense related  to  capital
 expenditures.

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)  - Interest income  (expense) increased from  $1.2
 million in fiscal  2001 to  $1.8 million in  fiscal 2002.   Interest  income
 decreased by 4%  from $2.1  million to $2.0  million due  to lower  interest
 rates on investments.   Interest expense decreased  $729,000 due to  expense
 last year from short-term borrowing compared to this year.  Short term  debt
 was paid off in January 2002.

 PROVISION FOR  INCOME TAXES  -  The provision  for  income taxes  was  $31.4
 million, or 36% of income before income taxes in fiscal 2002, compared  with
 $31.3 million, or 36% of income before income taxes in fiscal 2001.

 NET INCOME - Net income increased 3% from $55.6 million, or $.61 per diluted
 share in fiscal 2001 to $57.1 million,  or $.62 per diluted share in  fiscal
 2002.

 Business Segment Discussion

 Revenues in the bank systems and services business segment increased 1% from
 $339.3 million  in fiscal  2002 to  $343.1 million  in fiscal  2003.   Gross
 profit in this  business segment  decreased 6%  from $143.6  million or  42%
 gross margin in fiscal 2002  to $135.0 million or  39% gross margin for  the
 year ended June 30, 2003. This decline  in gross profit is primarily due  to
 the industry trend of an overall decrease in capital spending for the fiscal
 year and is reflected by the  significant decrease in software and  hardware
 revenues offset somewhat by the increase  in services revenue. The  decrease
 in gross margin  is primarily due  to the significant  reduction in  license
 revenue, which is our highest margin revenue.

 Revenues in the credit union systems and services business segment increased
 from $57.3  million  in  fiscal  2002  to  $61.5  million  in  fiscal  2003,
 representing a 7% increase.  Gross profit in this business segment increased
 from $17.7  million or  31% gross  profit  margin in  fiscal 2002  to  $18.3
 million or  30% gross  profit margin  for the  year ended  June 30,  2003.
 Despite the sluggish economy, the credit  union segment was able to  achieve
 growth in revenue and maintain a fairly flat gross margin.  The increase  in
 revenue was due to  additional core customers during  the year and  expanded
 product offerings in this segment.

 Revenues in the bank systems and services business segment increased 7% from
 $318.0 million  in fiscal  2001 to  $339.3 million  in fiscal  2002.   Gross
 profit in this business segment increased  4% from $138.1 million in  fiscal
 2001 to $143.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2002, due to decrease  in
 amortization expense  relating to  goodwill as  a result  of the  impact  of
 adopting SFAS No. 142 and the overall cost control measures put in place  by
 management.   The  slight  increases, which  are  significantly  lower  than
 historical levels, are  primarily due to  the industry trend  of an  overall
 decrease in capital spending for the year, which continued to be impacted by
 the events of September 11th and the weakened ongoing economy.

 Revenues in the credit union systems and services business segment increased
 from $48.9  million  in  fiscal  2001  to  $57.3  million  in  fiscal  2002,
 representing  a  17%  increase.   Gross  profit  in  this  business  segment
 increased from  $13.5 million  in fiscal  2001  to $17.7  million or  a  31%
 increase for the  year ended June  30, 2002.   Gross profit margin  remained
 strong due to  decrease in amortization  expense relating to  goodwill as  a
 result of the impact of adopting SFAS  No. 142 and the overall cost  control
 measures put in  place by  management.   Despite the  sluggish economy,  the
 credit union segment  had significant growth  in revenue.   The increase  in
 revenue was due to the addition of core customers during the year.

 Liquidity and Capital Resources

 We have historically generated positive cash  flow from operations and  have
 generally used existing  resources and  funds generated  from operations  to
 meet capital requirements.  We expect this trend to continue in the future.

 The Company's cash and cash equivalents  and investments increased to  $32.0
 million at June 30, 2003, from $17.8 million at June 30, 2002. Cash provided
 by operations  was $98.9  million for  the fiscal  year ended  June 2003  as
 compared to $89.9 million for the fiscal  year ended 2002.  Included in  our
 June 30,  2003 annual  in-house support  billing was  an increase  of  $25.0
 million because of  a shift in  billing cycles for  our previously  acquired
 customers to  our fiscal  year-end from  a  calendar year.   This  shift  in
 billing from  the prior  year was  the primary  reason for  the increase  in
 accounts receivable of $19.7 million and deferred revenues of $23.1 million.
 In 2003, there  was additional depreciation  expense of $3.1  million and  a
 $6.5 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used in
 investing activities for the fiscal year ended June 2003 was $58.5  million,
 which  included  capital  expenditures  of  $46.0  million,  primarily   for
 expansion at our Monett complex and a new facility in Birmingham, AL.,  $6.5
 million for acquisitions  and $5.2  million for  capitalization of  software
 development costs.   Financing activities  used cash  of $26.1  million,  of
 which the majority was  used to purchase treasury  stock for $18.2  million,
 and to pay dividends of $12.3 million for the fiscal year ended 2003.

 At June 30, 2003, the Company is in negotiations to acquire two buildings in
 San  Diego,  CA.,  which  when  completed  will  have  a  total  cost  of
 approximately $29 million, and  one building in  Charlotte, NC., which  will
 have a total cost of approximately $8.0 million.  The Company expects  total
 capital expenditures to increase to approximately $61 million in fiscal year
 2004.

 On September 21,  2001, the Company's  Board of Directors  approved a  stock
 buyback of  the Company's  common stock  of up  to 3.0  million shares,  and
 approved an increase to 6.0 million  shares on October 4, 2002. The  buyback
 has been funded with cash from continuing operations.  As of June 30,  2003,
 3,012,933 shares have been  purchased for $49,218,870.   During fiscal  2003
 there were 501,740 shares and 60,249 shares reissued from treasury stock for
 the shares exercised  in the  employee stock  option plan  and the  employee
 stock purchase plan, respectively.  At June 30,  2003, there were  2,363,121
 shares remaining in treasury stock.   As of June 30, 2002, 1,656,733  shares
 had been purchased for $31,054,139 and 1,568,910 shares remained in treasury
 stock.

 We currently have two bank credit lines upon which we can draw an  aggregate
 amount at any one time outstanding of $58.0 million.  The major credit  line
 provides for funding of up to  $50.0 million and bears interest at  variable
 LIBOR-based  rates  (1.87%  at June  30,  2003).   The  second  credit  line
 provides for funding of up to $8.0  million and bears interest at the  prime
 rate (4.0% at June  30, 2003).  Currently  there are no amounts  outstanding
 under either line.

 Subsequent to June  30, 2003, the  Company's Board of  Directors declared  a
 cash dividend of $.035  per share on its  common stock payable on  September
 19, 2003, to  stockholders of record  on September 5,  2003.  Current  funds
 from operations are adequate for this purpose.  The Board has indicated that
 it plans to  continue paying dividends  as long as  the Company's  financial
 picture continues to be favorable.

 Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments

 At  June  30,  2003,  the  Company's  total  off-balance  sheet  contractual
 obligations of  $5.2  million consists  of  long-term operating  leases  for
 various facilities.  The leases expire from 2004 to 2008.

 Recent Accounting Pronouncements

 In June  2002,  the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board  ("FASB")  issued
 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 146, Accounting for
 Costs Associated with Exit  or Disposal Activities,  which is effective  for
 any activity  initiated after  December 31,  2002. This  standard  addresses
 financial accounting  and  reporting  for  costs  associated  with  exit  or
 disposal activities and  nullifies the Emerging  Issues Task Force  ("EITF")
 Issue No.  94-3,  Liability  Recognition for  Certain  Employee  Termination
 Benefits and  Other  Costs to  Exit  an Activity  (including  Certain  Costs
 Incurred in a Restructuring).  This standard requires that a liability for a
 cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured
 initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred.  The accounting
 for similar events and circumstances will be the same, thereby improving the
 comparability  and  representational  faithfulness  of  reported   financial
 information.  The adoption of this standard on January 1, 2003, did not have
 a material  impact  on  the Company's  consolidated  financial  position  or
 results of operations.

 In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus regarding EITF Issue No.  02-
 16, Accounting by a Customer, Including  a Reseller, for Cash  Consideration
 Received from a Vendor. This consensus requires that payments from a  vendor
 be classified as a reduction to the price of the vendor's goods and taken as
 a reduction to cost  of sales unless the  payments are: (1) a  reimbursement
 for costs incurred  to sell  the product,  or (2)  a payment  for assets  or
 services provided.  The consensus also requires that payments from a  vendor
 be recognized as a reduction to cost  of sales on a rational and  systematic
 basis.   This  consensus  is effective  for  fiscal  years  beginning  after
 December 15, 2002 (July 1, 2003 for JHA).  The adoption of this consensus on
 July 1, 2003, did not have  a material effect on the Company's  consolidated
 financial position or results of operation.

 In November 2002,  FASB Interpretations No.  45, Guarantor's Accounting  and
 Disclosure Requirements  for Guarantees,  Including Indirect  Guarantees  of
 Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57,  and
 107 ("FIN 45") was issued.  FIN 45 elaborates on the disclosures to be  made
 by a guarantor  in its  interim and  annual financial  statements about  its
 obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued.  It also  clarifies
 that a guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception of a  guarantee,
 a liability for  the fair value  of the obligation  undertaken in issuing  a
 guarantee.  The  initial recognition and  initial measurement provisions  of
 this Interpretation  are applicable  on a  prospective basis  to  guarantees
 issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of the  guarantor's
 fiscal year-end.   The disclosure  requirements in  this Interpretation  are
 effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after
 December 15, 2002.  The adoption of this Interpretation on January 1,  2003,
 did not  have a  material effect  on  the Company's  consolidated  financial
 position or results of operations.

 In December 2002, the FASB issued  SFAS No. 148, Accounting for  Stock-Based
 Compensation - Transition and  Disclosure - an  amendment of FASB  Statement
 No. 123. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123, to provide alternative methods of
 transition for  a  voluntary  change  to the  fair  value  based  method  of
 accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No.  148
 amends the  disclosure requirements  of SFAS  No. 123  to require  prominent
 disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method
 of accounting for stock-based  employee compensation and  the effect of  the
 method used  on  reported  results.  SFAS No.  148  was  effective  for  the
 Company's financial  statements for  fiscal year  ended June  30, 2003.  The
 Company has elected to continue to account for its stock-based  compensation
 in accordance  with the  provisions of  APB No.  25 as  interpreted by  FASB
 Interpretation No. 44, Accounting  for Certain Transactions Involving  Stock
 Compensation, an  Interpretation  of APB  Opinion  No. 25,  ("FIN  44")  and
 present the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123.

 In  January  2003,  the  FASB  issued  Interpretation  No.  46  ("FIN  46"),
 Consolidation of Variable Interest  Entities, which addresses  consolidation
 by business enterprises of  variable interest entities  that either: (1)  do
 not have  sufficient equity  investment  at risk  to  permit the  entity  to
 finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support, or
 (2) the equity investors lack an  essential characteristic of a  controlling
 financial  interest.   FIN  46  requires  disclosure  of  Variable  Interest
 Entities (VIEs) in financial statements issued after January 31, 2003, if it
 is reasonably possible that as of the transition date: (1) the company  will
 be  the  primary  beneficiary   of  an  existing   VIE  that  will   require
 consolidation or, (2) the company will hold a significant variable  interest
 in, or have significant involvement with,  an existing VIE. Pursuant to  the
 transitional  requirements  of   FIN  46,   the  company   will  adopt   the
 consolidation guidance  applicable  to existing  VIEs  as of  the  reporting
 period beginning July 1, 2003. Any VIEs created after January 31, 2003,  are
 immediately subject to the consolidation guidance  in FIN 46.  The  adoption
 of this  interpretation did  not have  a material  effect on  the  Company's
 consolidated financial position or results of operations.

 In May 2003,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial
 Instruments with  Characteristics  of  both Liabilities and Equity. SFAS No.
 150  states  that  companies  which  issue  financial  instruments that have
 characteristics of both liabilities and equity will have to determine if the
 instrument  should  be  classified  as  a  liability or equity for financial
 instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003.  The  Company  does
 not  expect  the  adoption  of FASB No. 150 to have a material effect on our
 operating results or financial condition.

 Critical Accounting Policies

 We  prepare  our  consolidated  financial  statements  in  accordance   with
 accounting  principles  generally  accepted   in  the  United  States.   The
 significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 to the  consolidated
 financial statements.   Certain of  these accounting  policies as  discussed
 below require  management to  make estimates  and assumptions  about  future
 events  that  could  materially  affect  the  reported  amounts  of  assets,
 liabilities, revenues and expenses and  disclosure of contingent assets  and
 liabilities.  Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
 assumptions or conditions.

 We record  revenue in  accordance with  Statement  of Position  (SOP)  97-2,
 Software Revenue Recognition, as amended.   We recognize revenue from  sales
 of hardware, software and services and from arrangements involving  multiple
 elements of each of  the above.  Revenue  for multiple element  arrangements
 are recorded based on contractual amounts,  which are determined based  upon
 the price charged  when sold separately.   Revenue is  not recognized  until
 persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee
 is  fixed  and  determinable,  and collectibility  is  probable.   Sales  of
 hardware and equipment  are  recorded when title and risk of loss transfers.
 Licensing  revenues  are  recorded  upon  delivery  and  acceptance  of  the
 software.  Service fees for training and installation  are recognized as the
 services are  provided.   Support  revenues  are recorded  evenly  over  the
 related contract period.

 As discussed previously in  the overview, the  Company has established  VSOE
 separately for  all the  individual components  of licensing,  installation,
 support, and  hardware and  recognizes revenue  separately for  the  various
 components.  The components are all independently priced and consistent with
 pricing when  each element  is sold  separately.   There  are no  rights  of
 return, conditions of acceptance or price protections in our contracts.

 The calculation of  depreciation and amortization  expense is  based on  the
 estimated economic lives of the underlying property, plant and equipment and
 intangibles.  We believe it is unlikely that any significant changes to  the
 useful lives of our  tangible and intangible assets  will occur in the  near
 term, but rapid changes in technology or changes in market conditions  could
 result in  revisions to  such estimates  that  could materially  affect  the
 carrying value  of  these  assets  and  the  Company's  future  consolidated
 operating results.

 Forward Looking Statements

 Except  for  the  historical  information  contained  herein,  the   matters
 discussed in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
 and Results of Operations and other portions of this report contain forward-
 looking statements within the  meaning of federal  securities laws.   Actual
 results are  subject  to  risks  and  uncertainties,  including  both  those
 specific to the  Company and  those specific  to the  industry, which  could
 cause results to differ materially from  those contemplated.  The risks  and
 uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the matters detailed in "Risk
 Factors" in Item 1 of the Company's 2003 Form 10-K annual report filed  with
 the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Undue reliance should not be placed
 on the  forward-looking  statements.  The Company  does  not  undertake  any
 obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.

 Potential risks and uncertainties which  could adversely affect the  Company
 include: the  financial  health of  the  banking industry,  our  ability  to
 continue or effectively manage growth, adapting our products and services to
 changes  in  technology,  changes  in  our  strategic  relationships,  price
 competition, loss of key employees,  consolidation in the banking  industry,
 increased government  regulation,  network or  internet  security  problems,
 declining  computer  hardware  prices,  and  operational  problems  in   our
 outsourcing facilities.

 Item 7A  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 -------  ----------------------------------------------------------
 Market risk refers to  the risk that a  change in the level  of one or  more
 market prices, interest rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or  other
 market factors  such as  liquidity,  will result  in  losses for  a  certain
 financial instrument or group  of financial instruments.   We are  currently
 exposed to credit risk on credit extended to customers and interest risk  on
 investments in U.S. government securities.  We actively monitor these  risks
 through a variety of controlled procedures involving senior management.   We
 do not currently  use any derivative  financial instruments.   Based on  the
 controls in place, credit worthiness of  the customer base and the  relative
 size of these  financial instruments, we  believe the  risk associated  with
 these  instruments  will  not  have  a   material  adverse  effect  on   our
 consolidated financial position or results of operations.


 Item 8    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 ------    -------------------------------------------

 Financial Statements

   Consolidated Statements of Income,
   Years Ended June 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001                         24

   Consolidated Balance Sheets, June 30, 2003 and 2002               25

   Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity,
   Years Ended June 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001                         26

   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,
   Years Ended June 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001                         27

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        28



 Financial Statement Schedules

      There are no schedules included because they are not applicable or  the
 required information is  shown in the  consolidated financial statements  or
 notes thereto.


<PAGE>

 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



 To the Board of Directors of
    Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.:


 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Jack Henry &
 Associates, Inc. and Subsidiaries  (the "Company") as of  June 30, 2003  and
 2002,  and  the  related  consolidated  statements  of  income,  changes  in
 stockholders' equity, and  cash flows  for each of  the three  years in  the
 period ended June 30, 2003.  These consolidated financial statements are the
 responsibility of  the  Company's  management.   Our  responsibility  is  to
 express an opinion on these consolidated  financial statements based on  our
 audits.

 We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with auditing  standards  generally
 accepted in the United States of  America.  Those standards require that  we
 plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the
 financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit  includes
 examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and  disclosures
 in  the  financial  statements.   An   audit  also  includes  assessing  the
 accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,  as
 well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe
 that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

 In our opinion,  such consolidated financial  statements present fairly,  in
 all material respects, the  financial position of  Jack Henry &  Associates,
 Inc. and Subsidiaries at June 30, 2003,  and 2002, and the results of  their
 operations and their cash flows  for each of the  three years in the  period
 ended June  30, 2003,  in conformity  with accounting  principles  generally
 accepted in the United States of America.



 /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP


 St. Louis, Missouri
 August 15, 2003

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)

                                                      YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                                -------------------------------
                                                 2003        2002        2001
                                                -------     -------     -------
 REVENUE
   License                                     $ 48,284    $ 66,576    $ 70,132
   Support and service                          260,452     228,744     185,763
   Hardware                                      95,891     101,337     111,008
                                                -------     -------     -------
     Total                                      404,627     396,657     366,903

 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license                                3,890       2,509       2,532
   Cost of support and service                  178,256     161,523     136,208
   Cost of hardware                              69,145      71,405      76,566
                                                -------     -------     -------
     Total                                      251,291     235,437     215,306
                                                -------     -------     -------

 GROSS PROFIT                                  $153,336    $161,220    $151,597

 OPERATING EXPENSES
   Selling and marketing                         30,664      29,380      27,770
   Research and development                      15,892      12,526      10,871
   General and administrative                    29,509      32,668      27,216
                                                -------     -------     -------
     Total                                       76,065      74,574      65,857
                                                -------     -------     -------

 OPERATING INCOME                              $ 77,271    $ 86,646    $ 85,740

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)
   Interest income                                  630       2,018       2,103
   Interest expense                                (110)       (191)       (920)
                                                -------     -------     -------
     Total                                          520       1,827       1,183
                                                -------     -------     -------

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES                    $ 77,791    $ 88,473    $ 86,923

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                      28,394      31,408      31,292
                                                -------     -------     -------
 NET INCOME                                    $ 49,397    $ 57,065    $ 55,631
                                                =======     =======     =======

 Diluted net income per share                  $   0.55    $   0.62    $   0.61
                                                =======     =======     =======
 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding     89,270      92,367      91,344
                                                =======     =======     =======

 Basic net income per share                    $   0.56    $   0.64    $   0.64
                                                =======     =======     =======
 Basic weighted average shares outstanding       87,866      89,316      86,834
                                                =======     =======     =======

 See notes to consolidated financial statements

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
               (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

                                                             JUNE 30,
                                                    -------------------------
                                                      2003            2002
                                                    ---------       ---------
 ASSETS
 CURRENT ASSETS:
    Cash and cash equivalents                      $   32,014      $   17,765
    Investments, at amortized cost                        998             997
    Trade receivables                                 150,951         131,431
    Prepaid cost of product                            18,483          17,663
    Prepaid expenses and other                         13,816          11,221
    Deferred income taxes                               1,000             900
                                                    ---------       ---------
      Total                                        $  217,262      $  179,977

 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, net                       $  196,046      $  173,775

 OTHER ASSETS:
    Goodwill                                       $   44,543      $   40,335
    Trade names                                         3,699           3,699
    Customer relationships, net of amortization        59,358          63,130
    Computer software, net of amortization             12,500           7,499
    Prepaid cost of product                            10,021          12,992
    Other non-current assets                            5,146           4,735
                                                    ---------       ---------
      Total                                        $  135,267      $  132,390
                                                    ---------       ---------
      Total assets                                 $  548,575      $  486,142
                                                    =========       =========
 LIABILITES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
    Accounts payable                               $    9,617      $    9,051
    Accrued expenses                                   17,250          11,352
    Accrued income taxes                                  421             225
    Deferred revenues                                 119,492          92,028
                                                    ---------       ---------
      Total                                        $  146,780      $  112,656

 DEFERRED REVENUES                                     12,732          16,947
 DEFERRED INCOME TAXES                                 23,840          15,800
                                                    ---------       ---------
      Total liabilities                            $  183,352      $  145,403

 STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
    Preferred stock - $1 par value; 500,000
      shares authorized, none issued               $        -      $        -
    Common stock - $0.01 par value: 250,000,000
      shares authorized; Shares issued at
      06/30/03 and 6/30/02 were 90,519,856                905             905
    Additional paid-in capital                        169,299         168,061
    Retained earnings                                 233,396         201,162
    Less Treasury stock at cost 2,363,121 shares
      issued at 6/30/03, 1,568,910 shares issued
      at 6/30/02                                      (38,377)        (29,389)
                                                    ---------       ---------
      Total stockholders' equity                   $  365,223      $  340,739
                                                    ---------       ---------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity   $  548,575      $  486,142
                                                    =========       =========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

                                                   YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                           ------------------------------------
                                              2003         2002         2001
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 PREFERRED SHARES:                                  -            -            -
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========
 COMMON SHARES:
   Shares, beginning of year               90,519,856   88,846,710   41,357,853
   Shares issued upon exercise of options           -    1,523,446    3,097,363
   Shares issued for Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan                                  -       31,962       21,267
   Shares issued in secondary offering              -            -    1,500,000
   Shares issued in acquisition                     -      117,738            -
   Stock dividend                                   -            -   42,870,227
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
   Shares, end of year                     90,519,856   90,519,856   88,846,710
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 COMMON STOCK - PAR VALUE $.01 PER SHARE:
   Balance, beginning of year             $       905  $       888  $       414
   Shares issued upon exercise of options           -           15           30
   Shares issued for Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan                                  -            1            -
   Shares issued in secondary offering              -            -           15
   Shares issued in acquisition                     -            1            -
   Stock dividend                                   -            -          429
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $       905  $       905  $       888
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========
 ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL:
   Balance, beginning of year             $   168,061  $   145,211  $    43,753
   Shares issued upon exercise of options       3,539       13,650       18,274
   Shares issued for Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan                                771          792          818
   Shares issued in secondary offering              -            -       60,510
   Shares issued in acquisition                     -        2,399            -
   Stock dividend                                   -            -         (429)
   Tax benefit on exercise of options           1,227        6,992       22,285
   Cost of treasury shares reissued            (4,299)        (983)           -
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $   169,299  $   168,061  $   145,211
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 RETAINED EARNINGS:
   Balance, beginning of year             $   201,162      156,405  $   110,378
   Net income                                  49,397       57,065       55,631
   Reissuance of treasury shares, net          (4,873)        (682)           -
   Dividends (2003-$.14 per share;
     2002-$.13 per share;
     2001-$.11 per share)                     (12,290)     (11,626)      (9,604)
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $   233,396  $   201,162  $   156,405
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 TREASURY STOCK:
   Balance, beginning of year             $   (29,389) $         -  $         -
   Purchase of treasury shares                (18,165)     (31,054)           -
   Reissuance of treasury shares
     upon exercise of stock                     8,187        1,601            -
   Reissuance of treasury shares
     for Employee Stock Purchase Plan             990           64            -
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $   (38,377) $   (29,389) $         -
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY               $   365,223  $   340,739  $   302,504
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY AND ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                               (In Thousands)

                                                   YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                           ------------------------------------
                                              2003         2002         2001
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

 Net Income                               $    49,397  $    57,065  $    55,631

 Adjustments to reconcile net income
  from continuing operations to cash
  from operating activities:
    Depreciation                               24,025       20,885       12,539
    Amortization                                6,169        6,585        9,349
    Deferred income taxes                       7,940        7,793        2,800
    Other, net                                    642          (58)          (3)

  Changes in:
    Trade receivables                         (19,675)     (14,858)     (42,633)
    Prepaid expenses and other                   (647)      (1,621)     (22,069)
    Accounts payable                              555       (8,795)       8,591
    Accrued expenses                            5,896        1,546         (155)
    Income taxes (including tax benefit
      from exercise of stock options)           1,428        7,428       25,225
    Deferred revenues                          23,131       13,971       23,547
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
    Net cash from operating activities    $    98,861  $    89,941  $    72,822

 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
    Capital expenditures                  $   (45,958)  $  (49,509) $   (57,781)
    Purchase of investments                    (3,988)      (2,987)        (982)
    Purchase of customer contracts               (304)           -            -
    Proceeds from maturity of investments       4,000        3,000        1,000
    Computer software developed                (5,162)      (1,895)      (1,447)
    Payment for acquisitions, net              (6,537)     (11,111)           -
    Other, net                                   (523)         274          375
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
    Net cash from investing activities    $   (58,472) $   (62,228) $   (58,835)

 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
    Proceeds from issuance of common
     stock upon exercise of stock options $     3,539  $    13,666  $    18,304
    Proceeds from sale of
     common stock, net                            776          792       61,344
    Dividends paid                            (12,290)     (11,626)      (9,604)
    Change in short-term borrowings, net            -            -      (70,500)
    Principal payments on long-term debt            -         (315)        (128)
    Purchase of treasury stock                (18,165)     (31,054)           -
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
    Net cash from financing activities    $   (26,140) $   (28,537) $      (584)
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH
   AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                   $    14,249  $      (824) $    13,403

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS,
   BEGINNING OF YEAR                      $    17,765  $    18,589  $     5,186
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR   $    32,014  $    17,765  $    18,589
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 NOTE 1: NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY

 Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. ("JHA" or the "Company") is a leading provider
 of integrated  computer  systems  that has  developed  or  acquired  several
 banking and  credit  union  software systems.  The  Company's  revenues  are
 predominately earned by  marketing those systems  to financial  institutions
 nationwide along with the computer equipment (hardware) and by providing the
 conversion and software installation services for a financial institution to
 install a  JHA software  system. JHA  also provides  continuing support  and
 services to customers using the systems either in-house or outsourced.

 CONSOLIDATION

 The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of JHA and all of
 its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all significant intercompany accounts  and
 transactions have been eliminated.

 STOCK OPTIONS

 As  permitted  under  Statement of Financial Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS")
 No. 123, Accounting for  Stock-Based Compensation,  the Company  has elected
 to follow  Accounting Principles  Board  Opinion ("APB")  No. 25, Accounting
 for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees,  in  accounting  for  stock-based  awards
 to employees.  Under  APB  No.  25,  the  Company  generally  recognizes  no
 compensation expense with respect to such  awards, since the exercise  price
 of the stock  options awarded  are equal  to the  fair market  value of  the
 underlying security on the grant date.

 Pro forma  information  regarding  net income  and  earnings  per  share  is
 required in financial  statements for periods  beginning after December  15,
 2002, by SFAS  No. 148, Accounting  for Stock-Based  Compensation-Transition
 and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB  Statement No. 123, for awards  granted
 after December 31, 1994, as if the Company had accounted for its stock-based
 awards to employees under the  fair value method of  SFAS No. 123. The  fair
 value of the Company's stock-based awards  to employees was estimated as  of
 the date  of the  grant  using a  Black-Scholes  option pricing  model.  The
 Company's pro forma information is as follows:

                                         (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
                                                  Year Ended June 30,
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             2003         2002         2001
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Net income, as reported                 $   49,397   $   57,065   $   55,631

 Deduct:  Total stock-based employee
 compensation expense determined under
 fair value based method for all awards,
 net of related tax effects                  6,572         9,394       19,181
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Pro forma net income                    $  42,825    $   47,671   $   36,450
                                          =========    =========    =========
 Diluted net income per share
                            As reported  $     0.55   $     0.62   $     0.61
                            Pro forma    $     0.48   $     0.52   $     0.40

 Basic net income per share
                            As reported  $     0.56   $     0.64   $     0.64
                            Pro forma    $     0.49   $     0.53   $     0.42


 During fiscal year 2003, all the shares exercised came  from treasury stock.
 The  weighted fair value  of options granted was $4.68, $10.63 and $9.58 for
 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.

 Assumptions:
   Expected life (years)                       2.35         3.10         2.92
   Volatility                                    55%          55%          54%
   Risk free interest rate                      1.3%         3.2%         4.4%
   Dividend yield                              1.16%        0.78%        0.36%


 USE OF ESTIMATES

 The preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  accounting
 principles generally  accepted  in the  United  States of  America  requires
 management to  make  estimates  and assumptions  that  affect  the  reported
 amounts of assets and  liabilities and disclosure  of contingent assets  and
 liabilities as of  the date  of the  financial statements  and the  reported
 amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
 could differ from those estimates.

 REVENUE RECOGNITION

 In October,  1997,  the  Accounting Standards  Executive  Committee  of  the
 American Institute  of  Public  Accountants ("AcSEC")  issued  Statement  of
 Position ("SOP") 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition. The Company adopted SOP
 97-2 effective July 1, 1998.  SOP 97-2 generally requires revenue earned  on
 software arrangements involving  multiple elements to  be allocated to  each
 element based on the relative fair values of the elements.

 The Securities  and  Exchange  Commission ("SEC")  issued  Staff  Accounting
 Bulletin ("SAB") No.  101, Revenue Recognition  in Financial Statements,  on
 December 3, 1999.  SAB No. 101,  as amended, provides the SEC Staff's  views
 on selected revenue recognition issues and was adopted by the Company in the
 fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2001.  The adoption of SAB No. 101  did
 not  have  a  material  effect  on  the  Company's  consolidated   financial
 statements.

 For  multiple  element  arrangements  the  Company  has  established  Vendor
 Specific Objective  Evidence  ("VSOE")  separately for  all  the  individual
 components of licensing, installation, support, and hardware and  recognizes
 revenue  separately  for the  various components.  The  components  are  all
 independently priced and consistent with pricing  when each element is  sold
 separately.  There are no rights of return, condition of acceptance or price
 protection in our contracts.

 The Company's  various  sources  of  revenue  and  the  methods  of  revenue
 recognition are as follows:

    License - Licensing fees are recognized upon delivery and acceptance
      of the software.  All software of the Company is sold unmodified.
    Software installation and related services - Fees for these services
      are recognized as the services are performed on hourly contracts and
      at completion and acceptance on fixed-fee contracts.
    Support and service - Fees from these contracts are recognized ratably
      over the life of the in-house support or outsourcing service contract.
      Regulatory requirement changes and technical enhancements to the
      software are specifically referenced and included in the annual
      support contracts.
    Hardware - Revenues from sales of hardware are recognized upon direct
      shipment to the Company's customers from the supplier. Costs of items
      purchased and remarketed are reported as cost of hardware in cost of
      sales.  Revenues and related costs of hardware maintenance are
      recognized ratably over the life of the contract.
    Customer reimbursements - Direct costs paid to third parties for
      expenses incurred for customers are billed and recognized as revenue
      in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 01-14,
      Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for 'Out
      of Pocket' Expenses Incurred.  These revenues are included and reported
      in the respective lines of support and service or hardware revenue.

 RECLASSIFICATION

 To improve reporting disclosure, the Company has changed its reporting  line
 items, with installation revenue moving from license revenue to support  and
 service revenue  and  a new  line  item for  license  cost of  sales.  Gross
 customer reimbursements are  now included and  presented in the  correlating
 line items  of  support  and  services  and  hardware  revenues  and  costs,
 respectively.   Where appropriate,  prior year's  financial information  has
 been reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.

 PREPAID COST OF PRODUCT

 Costs for remarketed hardware and software maintenance contracts, which  are
 prepaid, are recognized ratably over the life of the contract, generally one
 to five years, with the related revenue amortized from deferred revenues.

 DEFERRED REVENUES

 Deferred revenues consist primarily of prepaid annual software support  fees
 and prepaid hardware maintenance fees.   Hardware maintenance contracts  are
 multi-year, therefore,  the deferred  revenue  and prepaid  maintenance  are
 classified  in  accordance  with the  terms of the  contract.  Software  and
 hardware deposits received are also reflected as deferred revenues.

 COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT

 The Company  capitalizes new  product development  costs incurred  from  the
 point at which  technological feasibility has  been established through  the
 point at  which the  product is  ready  for general  availability.  Software
 development costs that are capitalized are evaluated on a product-by-product
 basis annually and are assigned an estimated economic life based on the type
 of product,  market characteristics  and maturity  of  the market  for  that
 particular product.  The Company's amortization policy for these capitalized
 costs is to amortize  the costs in accordance  with SFAS No. 86,  Accounting
 for the  Costs  of  Computer  Software to  be  Sold,  Leased,  or  Otherwise
 Marketed.  Generally, these costs are initially amortized on a straight-line
 basis, and are monitored on a regular basis to assess that the  amortization
 method is still  appropriate and that  the remaining estimated  life of  the
 asset is reasonable (generally five to ten years).

 CASH EQUIVALENTS

 The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three
 months or less at the time of acquisition to be cash equivalents.

 INVESTMENTS

 The Company invests  its cash that  is not required  for current  operations
 primarily in  U.S. government  securities and  money market  accounts.   The
 Company has the  positive intent  and ability  to hold  its debt  securities
 until maturity and accordingly, these securities are classified as  held-to-
 maturity and are  carried at historical  cost adjusted  for amortization  of
 premiums and accretion  of discounts. Premiums  and discounts are  amortized
 and accreted, respectively, to interest income using the level-yield  method
 over the  period  to  maturity. The  held-to-maturity  securities  typically
 mature in less than one year. Interest on investments in debt securities  is
 included in income when earned.

 The amortized cost of held-to-maturity  securities is $998,000 and  $997,000
 at June  30,  2003 and  2002,  respectively.  Fair market  values  of  these
 securities did  not differ  significantly from  amortized  cost due  to  the
 nature of the  securities and minor  interest rate  fluctuations during  the
 periods.

 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

 Property and equipment is stated at  cost and depreciated principally  using
 the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

 Intangible assets consist of goodwill, customer relationships, software  and
 trade names acquired  in business acquisitions.  The amounts are  amortized,
 with the exception of goodwill and  trade names, over an estimated  economic
 benefit period,  generally five  to twenty  years, using  the  straight-line
 method.

 The Company reviews its long-lived assets and identifiable intangible assets
 with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
 have indicated  that  the  carrying  amount  of  its  assets  might  not  be
 recoverable.  The Company evaluates goodwill and trade names for  impairment
 of value on an annual basis and between annual tests if events or changes in
 circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

 Comprehensive income for each of the three years ended June 30, 2003  equals
 the Company's net income.

 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

 In accordance with  SFAS No. 131, Disclosure About Segments of an Enterprise
 and Related  Information, the  Company's operations  are classified  as  two
 business segments: bank systems  and services and  credit union systems  and
 services (see Note 13).  Revenue by type of product and service is presented
 on the face of the consolidated statements of income.  Substantially all the
 Company's revenues are derived from operations and assets located within the
 United States of America.

 COMMON STOCK

 On September 21,  2001, the Company's  Board of Directors  approved a  stock
 buyback of  the Company's  common stock  of up  to 3.0  million shares,  and
 approved an increase on October 4, 2002 to  6.0 million shares.  As of  June
 30, 2003,  3,012,933 shares  have been  purchased for  $49,218,870.   During
 fiscal 2003  there  were 501,740  shares  and 60,249  shares  reissued  from
 treasury stock for the  shares exercised in the  employee stock option  plan
 and the employee stock purchase plan, respectively. At June 30, 2003,  there
 were 2,363,121 shares  of treasury stock  remaining.  As  of June 30,  2002,
 1,656,733 shares had  been purchased  for $31,054,139  and 1,568,910  shares
 remained in treasury stock.

 On January 29, 2001, the Company's Board of Directors declared a 100%  stock
 dividend on its common stock, effectively a  2 for 1 stock split. The  stock
 dividend was paid March 2, 2001, to  stockholders of record at the close  of
 business   on  February  15,  2001.   All  affected  per  share  and  shares
 outstanding data in the consolidated statements  of income and the notes  to
 the consolidated financial statements were retroactively restated to reflect
 this stock split.

 INCOME PER SHARE

 Per share information  is based  on the  weighted average  number of  common
 shares outstanding during the year.  Stock options have been included in the
 calculation of income per  diluted share to the  extent they are dilutive.
 The difference between basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding
 is the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options (see Note 10).

 INCOME TAXES

 Deferred tax liabilities and  assets are recognized for  the tax effects  of
 differences between  the financial  statement and  tax bases  of assets  and
 liabilities. A valuation allowance would  be established to reduce  deferred
 tax assets if it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will  not
 be realized.

 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

 In June  2002,  the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board  ("FASB")  issued
 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 146, Accounting for
 Costs Associated with Exit  or Disposal Activities,  which is effective  for
 any activity  initiated after  December 31,  2002. This  standard  addresses
 financial accounting  and  reporting  for  costs  associated  with  exit  or
 disposal activities and  nullifies the Emerging  Issues Task Force  ("EITF")
 Issue No.  94-3,  Liability  Recognition for  Certain  Employee  Termination
 Benefits and  Other  Costs to  Exit  an Activity  (including  Certain  Costs
 Incurred in a Restructuring).  This standard requires that a liability for a
 cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured
 initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred.  The accounting
 for similar events and circumstances will be the same, thereby improving the
 comparability  and  representational  faithfulness  of  reported   financial
 information.  The adoption of this standard on January 1, 2003, did not have
 a material  impact  on  the Company's  consolidated  financial  position  or
 results of operations.

 In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus regarding EITF Issue No.  02-
 16, Accounting by a Customer, Including  a Reseller, for Cash  Consideration
 Received from a Vendor. This consensus requires that payments from a  vendor
 be classified as a reduction to the price of the vendor's goods and taken as
 a reduction to cost  of sales unless the  payments are: (1) a  reimbursement
 for costs incurred  to sell  the product,  or (2)  a payment  for assets  or
 services provided.  The consensus also requires that payments from a  vendor
 be recognized as a reduction to cost  of sales on a rational and  systematic
 basis.   This  consensus  is effective  for  fiscal  years  beginning  after
 December 15, 2002 (July 1, 2003 for JHA).  The adoption of this consensus on
 July 1, 2003, did not have  a material effect on the Company's  consolidated
 financial position or results of operation.

 In November 2002,  FASB Interpretations No.  45, Guarantor's Accounting  and
 Disclosure Requirements  for Guarantees,  Including Indirect  Guarantees  of
 Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57,  and
 107 ("FIN 45") was issued.  FIN 45 elaborates on the disclosures to be  made
 by a guarantor  in its  interim and  annual financial  statements about  its
 obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued.  It also  clarifies
 that a guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception of a  guarantee,
 a liability for  the fair value  of the obligation  undertaken in issuing  a
 guarantee.  The  initial recognition and  initial measurement provisions  of
 this Interpretation  are applicable  on a  prospective basis  to  guarantees
 issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of the  guarantor's
 fiscal year-end.   The disclosure  requirements in  this Interpretation  are
 effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after
 December 15, 2002.  The adoption of this Interpretation on January 1,  2003,
 did not  have a  material effect  on  the Company's  consolidated  financial
 position or results of operations.

 In December 2002, the FASB issued  SFAS No. 148, Accounting for  Stock-Based
 Compensation - Transition and Disclosure-an amendment of FASB Statement  No.
 123. SFAS No.  148 amends SFAS  No. 123, to  provide alternative methods  of
 transition for  a  voluntary  change  to the  fair  value  based  method  of
 accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No.  148
 amends the  disclosure requirements  of SFAS  No. 123  to require  prominent
 disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method
 of accounting for stock-based  employee compensation and  the effect of  the
 method used  on  reported  results.  SFAS No.  148  was  effective  for  the
 Company's financial  statements for  fiscal year  ended June  30, 2003.  The
 Company has elected to continue to account for its stock-based  compensation
 in accordance  with the  provisions of  APB No.  25 as  interpreted by  FASB
 Interpretation No. 44, Accounting  for Certain Transactions Involving  Stock
 Compensation, an  Interpretation  of APB  Opinion  No. 25,  ("FIN  44")  and
 present the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123.

 In  January  2003,  the  FASB  issued  Interpretation  No.  46  ("FIN  46"),
 Consolidation of Variable Interest  Entities, which addresses  consolidation
 by business enterprises of  variable interest entities  that either: (1)  do
 not have  sufficient equity  investment  at risk  to  permit the  entity  to
 finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support, or
 (2) the equity investors lack an  essential characteristic of a  controlling
 financial  interest.   FIN  46  requires  disclosure  of  Variable  Interest
 Entities (VIEs) in financial statements issued after January 31, 2003, if it
 is reasonably possible that as of the transition date: (1) the company  will
 be  the  primary  beneficiary   of  an  existing   VIE  that  will   require
 consolidation or, (2) the company will hold a significant variable  interest
 in, or have significant involvement with,  an existing VIE. Pursuant to  the
 transitional  requirements  of   FIN  46,   the  company   will  adopt   the
 consolidation guidance  applicable  to existing  VIEs  as of  the  reporting
 period beginning July 1, 2003. Any VIEs created after January 31, 2003,  are
 immediately subject to the consolidation guidance  in FIN 46.  The  adoption
 of this  interpretation did  not have  a material  effect on  the  Company's
 consolidated financial position or results of operations.

 In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial
 Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. SFAS No.
 150 states that companies which issue financial instruments that have
 characteristics of both liabilities and equity will have to determine if the
 instrument should be classified as a liability or equity for financial
 instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003. The Company does
 not expect the adoption of FASB No. 150 to have a material effect on our
 operating results or financial condition.


 NOTE 2: FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

 Fair values  for  held-to-maturity securities  are  based on  quoted  market
 prices.  For all other  financial instruments, including amounts  receivable
 or payable  and  short-term  borrowings, fair  values  approximate  carrying
 value, based on the short-term nature of the assets and liabilities and  the
 variability of the interest rates on the borrowings.


 NOTE 3: PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

 The classification of property and equipment, together with their estimated
 useful lives is as follows:

                                      (In Thousands)
                                          June 30,
                                  -----------------------    Estimated
                                     2003          2002      Useful Life
                                  ---------     ---------    -----------
  Land                           $    6,519    $    6,519
  Land improvements                  16,050         8,774    5-20 years
  Buildings                          76,891        57,636    25-30 years
  Equipment and furniture           104,528       100,309    5-8 years
  Aircraft and equipment             48,542        41,633    8-10 years
  Construction in progress            4,834        17,028
                                  ---------     ---------
                                 $  257,364    $  231,899
  Less accumulated depreciation      61,318        58,124
                                  ---------     ---------
  Propery and equipment, net     $  196,046    $  173,775
                                  =========     =========


 NOTE 4: OTHER ASSETS

 The Company  adopted SFAS  No. 142,  Goodwill and  Other Intangible  Assets,
 effective July 1, 2001.  Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and trade names are no
 longer amortized but reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if
 certain indicators arise.  The Company completed the transitional impairment
 tests for trade names with indefinite useful lives during the quarter  ended
 September 30, 2001, for goodwill during the quarter ended December 31, 2001,
 and its annual impairment tests during 2003 and 2002 and has determined that
 no impairment exists. Had the Company  been accounting for its goodwill  and
 trade names under SFAS No. 142 for all periods presented, the Company's  net
 income and net income per share would have been adjusted as follows:

                                         (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
                                                 Year Ended June 30,
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             2003         2002         2001
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Reported net income                     $   49,397   $   57,065   $   55,631
 Goodwill and trade names amortization,
   net of tax                                     -            -        1,108
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Adjusted net income                     $   49,397   $   57,065   $   56,739
                                          =========    =========    =========

 Reported diluted net income per share   $     0.55   $     0.62   $     0.61
 Goodwill and trade names amortization,
   net of tax                                     -            -         0.01
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Adjusted diluted net income per share   $     0.55   $     0.62   $     0.62
                                          =========    =========    =========

 Reported basic net income per share     $     0.56   $     0.64   $     0.64
 Goodwill and trade names amortization,
   net of tax                                     -            -         0.01
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Adjusted basic net income per share     $     0.56   $     0.64   $     0.65
                                          =========    =========    =========


 Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended June 30, 2003
 and 2002, by reportable segments, are:

                                               (In Thousands)
                                      Banking   Credit Union
                                      Systems     Systems
                                        and         and
                                      Services    Services        Total
                                      --------    --------      ---------
  Balance, for the year
    ended June 30, 2001              $  14,508   $  14,840     $   29,348
  Goodwill acquired during the year     10,987           -         10,987
                                      --------    --------      ---------
  Balance, for the year
    ended June 30, 2002              $  25,495   $  14,840     $   40,335
  Goodwill acquired during the year      1,819       2,389          4,208
                                      --------    --------      ---------
  Balance, for the year
    ended June 30, 2003              $  27,314   $  17,229     $   44,543
                                      ========    ========      =========


 Information regarding other identifiable intangible assets is as follows:


                                        (In Thousands)
                                     Year Ended June 30,
                                     -------------------
                             2003                           2002
                 ----------------------------   -----------------------------
                 Carrying Accumulated           Carrying Accumulated
                  Amount  Amortization   Net     Amount  Amortization   Net
                 -------   ---------  -------   -------   ---------   -------
 Customer
  Relationships  $89,212   $(29,854)  $59,358   $88,197   $(25,067)   $63,130

 Trade names       3,699           -    3,699     3,699          -      3,699
                 -------   ---------  -------   -------   ---------   -------
 Totals          $92,911   $(29,854)  $63,057   $91,896   $(25,067)   $66,829
                 =======   =========  =======   =======   =========   =======

 Trade names have been determined to  have indefinite lives and therefore  as
 of July 1, 2001, are no longer amortized.  Customer relationships have lives
 ranging from 5 to 20 years.

 Computer  software  includes  the  unamortized  cost  of  software  products
 developed or acquired by the Company,  which are required to be  capitalized
 by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

 Following is an analysis of the computer software costs:

                                                  (In Thousands)
                                       Carrying    Accumulated
                                        Amount     Amortization      Total
                                       --------      --------      ---------
   Balance, June 30, 2001             $   9,199     $  (3,393)    $    5,806
   Acquired Software                      1,376             -          1,376
   Capitalizated development cost         1,895             -          1,895
   Amortization expense                       -        (1,578)        (1,578)
                                       --------      --------      ---------
   Balance, June 30, 2002             $  12,470     $  (4,971)    $    7,499
   Acquired Software                      1,222             -          1,222
   Capitalizated development cost         5,162             -          5,162
   Amortization expense                       -        (1,383)        (1,383)
                                       --------      --------      ---------
   Balance, June 30, 2003             $  18,854     $  (6,354)    $   12,500
                                       ========      ========      =========

 Amortization  expense  for all intangible assets was  $6,169,000, $6,585,000
 and  $9,349,000  for  the  fiscal  years ended June 30, 2003, 2002, and 2001
 respectively. The estimated aggregate  future  amortization expense for each
 of the next five years for all intangible assets  remaining as  of  June 30,
 2003, is as follows:

                                  (In Thousands)
                     Customer
          Year     Relationships     Software        Total
          ----     -------------     --------        -----
          2004       $  4,679        $  1,239      $  5,918
          2005       $  4,201        $  1,144      $  5,345
          2006       $  4,197        $    842      $  5,039
          2007       $  4,156        $    568      $  4,724
          2008       $  4,115        $    567      $  4,682


 NOTE 5: LINES OF CREDIT AND LONG-TERM DEBT

 LINES OF CREDIT

 JHA currently has two bank credit lines upon which it can draw an  aggregate
 amount at any one  time outstanding of $58.0  million.  The major  unsecured
 credit line provides for funding of  up to $50.0 million and bears  interest
 at variable LIBOR-based rates (1.87% at June 30, 2003, and weighted  average
 interest rates of 2.23%  and 3.07% for  the years ended  June 30, 2003,  and
 2002, respectively) and expires December 15,  2004.  The line has an  unused
 commitment fee of .25% annually.

 The second credit line provides for funding of up to $8.0 million and  bears
 interest at the prime rate  (4.00% at June 30,  2003) and expires March  15,
 2004, and  is secured  by $1.0  million of  investments with  the  remainder
 unsecured.  There were no amounts outstanding under either line at June  30,
 2003, or 2002.

 The Company  paid interest  of $110,000,  $126,000 and  $1,150,000 in  2003,
 2002, and 2001, respectively.


 NOTE 6: LEASE COMMITMENTS

 The Company leases certain property under operating leases which expire over
 the next six years.  As of June 30, 2003, net future minimum lease  payments
 under non-cancelable terms are as follows: $3,096,000, $1,443,000, $437,000,
 $163,000, $15,000 in 2004, 2005, 2006,  2007, and 2008, respectively.   Rent
 expense for  all  operating leases  amount  to $3,921,000,  $4,093,000,  and
 $3,400,000 in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.


 NOTE 7: INCOME TAXES

 The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

                                       (In Thousands)
                                     Year Ended June 30,
                             -----------------------------------
                               2003         2002          2001
                             --------     --------      --------
   Current:
       Federal              $  19,001    $  22,387     $  26,817
       State                    1,453        1,228         1,675

   Deferred:
       Federal                  7,577        7,548         2,200
       State                      363          245           600
                             --------     --------      --------
                            $  28,394    $  31,408     $  31,292
                             ========     ========      ========

 The tax effects of temporary differences related to deferred taxes shown on
 the balance sheets were:

                                                         (In Thousands)
                                                            June 30,
                                                      --------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                      -------      -------
   Deferred tax assets:
     Carryforwards (operating losses and credits)    $    155     $    205
     Expense reserves (bad debts, insurance,
       franchise tax and vacation)                        705          710
     Intagible assets                                     680          840
     Other, net                                           295          195
                                                      -------      -------
                                                        1,835        1,950
                                                      -------      -------
  Deferred tax liabilities:
    Accelerated tax depreciation                      (19,450)     (14,330)
    Accelerated tax amortization                       (5,225)      (2,520)
                                                      -------      -------
                                                      (24,675)     (16,850)
                                                      -------      -------
  Net deferred tax liability                         $(22,840)    $(14,900)
                                                      =======      =======

 The deferred taxes are classified on the balance sheet as follows:

                                                         (In Thousands)
                                                            June 30,
                                                      --------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                      -------      -------
    Deferred income taxes (current)                  $  1,000     $    900
    Deferred income taxes (long-term)                 (23,840)     (15,800)
                                                      -------      -------
                                                     $(22,840)    $(14,900)
                                                      =======      =======


 The following analysis reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to
 the effective income tax rates reflected above:



                                                    (In Thousands)
                                                  Year Ended June 30,
                                              ----------------------------
                                              2003        2002        2001
                                              ----        ----        ----
  Computed "expected" tax expense (benefit)   35.0%       35.0%       35.0%
  Increase (reduction) in taxes
    resulting from:
      State income taxes, net of federal
        income tax benefits                    2.5%        2.0%        2.0%
      Research and  development credit        -1.0%       -1.0%       -1.0%
                                              ----        ----        ----
                                              36.5%       36.0%       36.0%
                                              ====        ====        ====

 Net operating  loss carryforwards  of  $433,000 (from  acquisitions)  expire
 through the  year 2014.    The Company  paid  income taxes  of  $19,025,000,
 $15,900,000, and $3,580,000 in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.

 The Company's federal income tax returns for the years ended June 30, 1999 -
 June 30,  2001, are  currently under  examination  by the  Internal  Revenue
 Service ("IRS").  In connection with  the examination of these returns,  the
 IRS is  proposing to  disallow research  & experimentation  ("R&E")  credits
 claimed on these returns.  The complete disallowance of these credits  would
 increase the Company's  federal income tax  liability by approximately  $1.5
 million plus interest.   The Company believes that  the R&E credits  claimed
 for these years are appropriate and  intends to contest any disallowance  of
 these credits.   While  there can  be no  assurance that  the Company  would
 prevail in contesting any disallowance, it believes any such disallowance is
 not supported  by the  facts or  the relevant  tax law.   Consequently,  the
 Company has not accrued any liability in connection with this matter.


 NOTE 8: INDUSTRY AND SUPPLIER CONCENTRATIONS

 The Company  sells  its  products to  banks,  credit  unions  and  financial
 institutions throughout the  United States  and generally  does not  require
 collateral. All  billings to  customers are  due net  30 days  from date  of
 billing.  Reserves (which are insignificant  at June 30, 2003 and 2002)  are
 maintained for potential credit losses.

 In addition, the Company purchases most of its computer hardware and related
 maintenance for resale in relation to  installation of JHA software  systems
 from one supplier.   There are  a limited number  of hardware suppliers  for
 these required materials.   If this  relationship was  terminated, it  could
 have a significant negative impact on the future operations of the Company.


 NOTE 9: STOCK OPTION PLANS

 The Company currently issues options under two stock option plans: the  1996
 Stock Option  Plan ("1996  SOP") and  the  Non-Qualified Stock  Option  Plan
 ("NSOP").

 1996 SOP

 The 1996  SOP was  adopted by  the  Company on  October  29, 1996,  for  its
 employees. This plan replaced  the terminating 1987  SOP. Terms and  vesting
 periods of the options are determined  by the Compensation Committee of  the
 Board of Directors when granted and for options outstanding include  vesting
 periods up to  4 years.  Shares of common  stock are  reserved for  issuance
 under this plan at the time  of each grant, which must  be at or above  fair
 market value of the stock at the  grant date. The options terminate 30  days
 after termination of  employment, three  months after  retirement, one  year
 after death or  ten years after  grant.  In  October 2002, the  stockholders
 approved an increase  in the  number of  stock options  available from  13.0
 million to 18.0 million shares.

 On April 11, 2003, the Company granted approximately 3,670,000 stock options
 to approximately  2,100  full  time  employees, or  94%  of  all  full  time
 employees as of that date.  The options were issued at the exercise price of
 $10.84 per share, which represented the fair market value of the stock as of
 that date and vest in two equal portions based on stock price performance or
 on specific dates.   The first portion vests  and becomes fully  exercisable
 two years following the  grant date, but may  vest earlier if the  Company's
 common stock achieves a closing market price of 125% or more of the exercise
 price for 10 consecutive  trading days.  Such  options vested prior to  June
 30, 2003.  The second portion vests four years following the grant date, but
 may vest earlier if the common stock achieves a closing market price of 150%
 or more of the exercise price on 10 or more consecutive trading days. As  of
 June 30, 2003, there were 2,420,815 shares available for future grants under
 the plan from the 18,000,000 shares approved by the stockholders.

 NSOP

 The NSOP was adopted  by the Company  on October 31,  1995, for its  outside
 directors. Options are  exercisable beginning six  months after  grant at  a
 price equal to 100% of the fair market value of the stock at the grant date.
 The options  terminate when  director status  ends,  upon surrender  of  the
 option or ten years after grant. A total of 1,200,000 shares of common stock
 have been reserved for  issuance under this plan  with a maximum of  300,000
 for each director.  As of June 30, 2003, there were 532,500 shares available
 for future grants under the plan.

 Changes in stock options outstanding are as follows:


                                         Number of        Weighted Average
                                           Shares         Exercise Price
                                         ----------           ------
  Outstanding July 1, 2000               13,257,568          $ 10.12
  Granted                                 1,422,280            23.57
  Forfeited                                (104,616)           18.39
  Exercised                              (3,285,433)            6.89
                                         ----------           ------
  Outstanding June 30, 2001              11,289,799            12.68
  Granted                                   618,116            23.26
  Forfeited                                 (82,500)           22.26
  Exercised                              (1,607,846)            8.50
                                         ----------           ------
  Outstanding June 30, 2002              10,217,569            13.90
  Granted                                 3,897,150            10.92
  Forfeited                                (313,925)           17.89
  Exercised                                (501,740)            7.04
  Expired                                     1,200             6.39
                                         ----------           ------
  Outstanding June 30, 2003              13,300,254          $ 13.19
                                         ==========           ======

 For the  year ended  June 30,  2003, there  were 501,740  shares and  60,249
 shares reissued from treasury stock for the shares exercised in the employee
 stock  option  plan and  the employee  stock purchase  plan (See  Note  11),
 respectively.  For the  year ended June 30,  2002, there were 84,400  shares
 and 3,423 shares reissued  from treasury stock for  the shares exercised  in
 the employee  stock  option  plan and  the  employee  stock  purchase  plan,
 respectively.

 Following is an analysis of stock options outstanding and exercisable as of
 June 30, 2003:
                                         Weighted-Average
                                            Remaining
     Range of                             Contractural      Weighted-Average
 Exercise Prices           Shares         Life in Years      Exercise Price
 --------------- ------------------------ ------------- ------------------------

                 Outstanding  Exercisable  Outstanding  Outstanding  Exercisable
                 -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
 $ 1.67 - $ 6.03   2,262,210   2,262,210       3.22       $ 4.59       $ 4.59
 $ 6.04 - $10.75   1,296,534   1,296,534       5.52         9.13         9.13
 $10.76 - $10.84   3,538,550   1,714,775       9.78        10.84        10.84
 $10.85 - $11.95     308,700     179,700       7.46        11.52        11.53
 $11.96 - $16.88   4,044,760   3,977,910       6.80        16.81        16.86
 $16.89 - $31.00   1,849,500   1,493,917       7.73        23.42        23.60
                 -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
 $ 1.67 - $31.00  13,300,254  10,925,046       7.00       $13.19       $13.29
 =============== ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========


 NOTE 10: EARNINGS PER SHARE

<TABLE>
 The following table reflects the reconciliation between Basic and Diluted
 net income per share:

                                        (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
                                                Year ended June 30,
                                                -------------------
                                        2003                         2002                          2001
                             --------------------------- ----------------------------  ----------------------------
                               Net   Weighted  Per Share  Net     Weighted  Per Share    Net    Weighted  Per Share
                             Income  Average    Amount   Income   Average    Amount    Income   Average    Amount
                                     Shares                       Shares                        Shares
                             ------  ------      ----    ------   ------      ----     ------    ------     ----
 <S>                        <C>      <C>        <C>     <C>       <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>       <C>
 Basic Income Per Share:
 Net income available to
   stockholders             $49,397  87,866     $0.56   $57,065   89,316     $0.64    $55,631    86,834    $0.64

 Effect of dilutive
  securities:
 Stock options              $     -   1,404     $0.01   $     -    3,051     $0.02    $     -     4,510    $0.03
                             ------  ------      ----    ------   ------      ----     ------    ------     ----
 Diluted Income Per Share:
 Net income available to
  common stockholders       $49,397  89,270     $0.55   $57,065   92,367     $0.62    $55,631    91,344    $0.61
                             ======  ======      ====    ======   ======      ====     ======    ======     ====

</TABLE>

 Stock options to  purchase approximately 5,972,949  shares for fiscal  2003,
 690,858 shares for fiscal 2002, and 102,591 shares for fiscal 2001, were not
 dilutive and therefore,  were not included  in the  computations of  diluted
 income per common share amounts.


 NOTE 11:  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

 Employee Stock Purchase  Plan - The  Company established  an employee  stock
 purchase plan on January 1, 1996.  The plan allows the majority of employees
 the opportunity to directly purchase shares of the Company.  Purchase prices
 for all participants are based on the closing bid price on the last business
 day of the month.

 401(k) Employee Stock  Ownership Plan -  The Company had  a 401(k)  Employee
 Stock Ownership  Plan (the  "Predecessor Plan")  covering substantially  all
 employees of the  Company and its  subsidiaries.  As  of July  1, 1987,  the
 Predecessor Plan was amended  and restated to include  most of the  existing
 ESOP provisions, to add salary reduction contributions allowed under Section
 401(k) of  the  Internal  Revenue Code  and  to  require  employer  matching
 contributions.  In June 2002, the  Company's Board of Directors approved  an
 action to separate the  Predecessor Plan into  the Employee Stock  Ownership
 Plan (The "ESOP" Plan) and the 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan (the  "Plan").
 The separation of  plans  was effective  on July 1,  2002.   Both plans  are
 subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1975 ("ERISA")  as
 amended.

 Under the Plan, the Company matches 100% of full time employee contributions
 up to 5% of compensation subject to a maximum of $5,000.  Employees must  be
 18 years of age  and be employed for  at least six months.   Under the  ESOP
 plan, employees must be 21 years of age and employed full time for at  least
 six months.  Under the ESOP Plan and the Plan, the Company has the option of
 making a discretionary contribution; however, none has been made for any  of
 the three most recent  fiscal years.  The  total matching contributions  for
 both the ESOP Plan and the Plan were $4,139,000, $3,862,000, and  $2,986,000
 for fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.


 NOTE 12: BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

 PURCHASE TRANSACTIONS

 On January  1, 2003,  the Company  acquired all  the outstanding  membership
 interests in National Bancorp Data Services,  LLC ("NBDS") for $2.1  million
 in cash.  NBDS provides  item processing and  imaging services to  financial
 institutions  in  the  greater  Chicago,  Illinois  area. This   acquisition
 expanded the geographic  footprint for item  processing centers and  expands
 the potential market for outsourcing customers. The purchase price  for NBDS
 was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based on then estimated
 fair values at the acquisition date  resulting in allocation to goodwill  of
 $1.8 million.

 On November  15,  2002, the  Company  acquired all  the  outstanding  shares
 of Credit Union Solutions,  Inc. ("CUSI") for  $5.0 million  in cash.   CUSI
 provides in-house data processing software, related hardware and services to
 smaller credit unions, primarily those with  assets less than $50  million.
 This acquisition  expanded the  potential market  for  the Company,  as  the
 Company's existing core products were too expensive to sell to credit unions
 of this size.  The purchase price for  CUSI was allocated to the assets  and
 liabilities acquired based on then estimated fair values at the  acquisition
 date, resulting in allocation to goodwill of $2.4 million, software of  $1.2
 million, and  customer contracts  of $0.7  million,  of which  software  and
 customer contracts are being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods
 of ten and twenty years, respectively.

 On January  1, 2002,  the Company  acquired all  the outstanding  shares  of
 Transcend Systems  Group  ("TSG")  for $7.3  million  in  cash  and  117,738
 restricted shares of the Company's common stock valued at $2.4 million,  for
 a total consideration to the TSG shareholders  of $9.7 million.  As part  of
 the purchase price, the  Company also advanced to  TSG $.85 million for  the
 repayment of bank debt and certain TSG obligations to its shareholders.  TSG
 provides customer relationship management  software and related services  to
 financial institutions.   The purchase price  for TSG was  allocated to  the
 assets and liabilities acquired  based on the estimated  fair values at  the
 acquisition date,  resulting  in allocation  to  goodwill of  $8.5  million,
 software of $.9 million,  and customer contracts of  $1.1 million, of  which
 software and customer contracts are being amortized on a straight-line basis
 over 10 years.

 On December 1,  2001, the  Company acquired  all the  outstanding shares  of
 System Legacy  Solutions ("SLS")  for  $3 million  in  cash.   SLS  provides
 technology to convert data from legacy systems into formats that can be used
 by newer technologies.   The  purchase price for  SLS was  allocated to  the
 assets and liabilities acquired  based on the estimated  fair values at  the
 acquisition date, resulting in  allocation to goodwill  of $2.6 million  and
 software $.45 million of  which software is being  amortized on a  straight-
 line basis over 10 years.

 The four acquisitions discussed above were accounted for using the  purchase
 method. Accordingly, the accompanying  consolidated financial statements  do
 not include any revenues and expenses related to these acquisitions prior to
 their respective closing dates.


 NOTE 13: BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

 The Company  is  a leading  provider  of integrated  computer  systems  that
 perform  data  processing   (available  for  in-house   or  service   bureau
 installations) for banks and  credit unions.   The Company's operations  are
 classified into two business segments: bank systems and services and  credit
 union systems and services.   The Company evaluates  the performance of  its
 segments and allocates resources to them based on various factors, including
 prospects for growth, return on investment and return on revenue.

                                                    (In Thousands)
                                              For The Year Ended June 30,
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             2003         2002         2001
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Revenue
   Bank systems and services             $  343,126   $  339,342   $  318,011
   Credit Unions systems and services        61,501       57,315       48,892
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Total                                 $  404,627   $  396,657   $  366,903
                                          =========    =========    =========

   Gross Profit
   Bank systems and services             $  134,995   $  143,555   $  138,143
   Credit Unions systems and services        18,341       17,665       13,454
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Total                                 $  153,336   $  161,220   $  151,597
                                          =========    =========    =========

   Property and equipment, net
   Bank systems and services             $  192,846   $  170,882   $  136,166
   Credit Unions systems and services         3,200        2,893        2,273
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Total                                 $  196,046   $  173,775   $  138,439
                                          =========    =========    =========

   Identified Intangible assets, net
   Bank systems and services             $   77,520   $   75,022   $   66,264
   Credit Unions systems and services        42,580       39,641       40,931
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Total                                 $  120,100   $  114,663   $  107,195
                                          =========    =========    =========

   Depreciation expense, net
   Bank systems and services             $   23,370   $   20,328   $   12,148
   Credit Unions systems and services           655          557          391
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Total                                 $   24,025   $   20,885   $   12,539
                                          =========    =========    =========

   Amortization expense, net
   Bank systems and services             $    4,787   $    5,295   $    7,077
   Credit Unions systems and services         1,382        1,290        2,272
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Total                                 $    6,169   $    6,585   $    9,349
                                          =========    =========    =========

   Captial expenditures, net
   Bank systems and services             $   45,759   $   48,451   $   55,474
   Credit Unions systems and services           199        1,058        2,307
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
   Total                                 $   45,958   $   49,509   $   57,781
                                          =========    =========    =========

 The Company has not disclosed any  additional asset information by  segment,
 as the  information  is  not produced  internally  and  its  preparation  is
 impracticable.


 NOTE 14:  SECONDARY OFFERING

 On August  16, 2000,  the  Company completed  a  secondary offering  of  3.0
 million  shares  of  its  common  stock  at  $21.50  per  share  less  a  5%
 underwriters discount and offering  expenses paid by the  Company.  The  net
 proceeds of approximately $60.5 million was  used to retire all  outstanding
 debt under  lines of  credit as  of that  date, with  the remaining  balance
 available for  working  capital,  capital  expenditures  and  other  general
 corporate purposes.


<PAGE>
<TABLE>

 SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
 (Unaudited)


 FY 2003                         First      Second       Third      Fourth
                                Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter
                                9-30-02     12-31-02    03-31-03    06-30-03      Total
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
 <S>                           <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
 REVENUE
   License                     $ 12,069    $ 13,807    $ 10,446    $ 11,962    $  48,284
   Support and service           59,884      64,252      66,552      69,764      260,452
   Hardware                      22,025      24,504      21,900      27,462       95,891
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 93,978    $102,563    $ 98,898    $109,188    $ 404,627
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
  COST OF SALES
   Cost of license             $    791    $    975    $    829    $  1,295    $   3,890
   Cost of support and service   41,455      46,518      43,870      46,413      178,256
   Cost of hardware              16,619      18,204      15,796      18,526       69,145
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 58,865    $ 65,697    $ 60,495    $ 66,234    $ 251,291
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------

 GROSS PROFIT                  $ 35,113    $ 36,866    $ 38,403    $ 42,954    $ 153,336
 Income before taxes           $ 17,791    $ 18,390    $ 19,396    $ 22,214    $  77,791
 Net Income                    $ 11,298    $ 11,677    $ 12,316    $ 14,106    $  49,397
 Diluted income per share      $   0.13    $   0.13    $   0.14    $   0.16    $    0.55


 FY 2002                         First      Second       Third      Fourth
                                Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter
                                9-30-01     12-31-01    03-31-02    06-30-02      Total
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
 REVENUE
   License                     $ 14,771    $ 16,017    $ 17,657    $ 18,131    $  66,576
   Support and service           55,322      55,166      57,044      61,212      228,744
   Hardware                      22,474      27,044      25,083      26,736      101,337
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 92,567    $ 98,227    $ 99,784    $106,079    $ 396,657
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license             $    257    $    131    $  1,070    $  1,051    $   2,509
   Cost of support and service   38,164      40,453      41,121      41,785      161,523
   Cost of hardware              15,097      18,632      17,501      20,175       71,405
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 53,518    $ 59,216    $ 59,692    $ 63,011    $ 235,437
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------

 GROSS PROFIT                  $ 39,049    $ 39,011    $ 40,092    $ 43,068    $ 161,220
 Income before taxes           $ 22,837    $ 20,366    $ 21,184    $ 24,086    $  88,473
 Net Income                    $ 14,616    $ 13,034    $ 13,558    $ 15,857    $  57,065
 Diluted income per share      $   0.16    $   0.14    $   0.15    $   0.17    $    0.62


 FY 2001                         First      Second       Third      Fourth
                                Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter
                                9-30-00     12-31-00    3-31-01     6-30-01       Total
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
 REVENUE
   License                     $ 16,277    $ 17,035    $ 18,376    $ 18,444    $  70,132
   Support and service           42,154      44,508      47,229      51,872      185,763
   Hardware                      23,239      24,206      32,598      30,965      111,008
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 81,670    $ 85,749    $ 98,203    $101,281    $ 366,903
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license             $    236    $  1,141    $    547    $    608    $   2,532
   Cost of support and service   30,644      33,930      34,771      36,863      136,208
   Cost of hardware              16,158      15,911      23,203      21,294       76,566
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 47,038    $ 50,982    $ 58,521    $ 58,765    $ 215,306
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------

 GROSS PROFIT                  $ 34,632    $ 34,767    $ 39,682    $ 42,516    $ 151,597
 Income before taxes           $ 18,569    $ 20,125    $ 23,966    $ 24,263    $  86,923
 Net Income                    $ 11,884    $ 12,880    $ 15,338    $ 15,529    $  55,631
 Diluted income per share      $   0.13    $   0.14    $   0.17    $   0.17    $    0.61



 FY 2000                         First      Second       Third      Fourth
                                Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter
                                9-30-99    12-31-99     3-31-00     6-30-00       Total
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
 REVENUE
   License                     $  7,842    $  5,815    $ 10,337    $ 15,161    $  39,155
   Support and service           27,059      30,464      33,658      38,822      130,003
   Hardware                      11,572      20,937      18,144      20,030       70,683
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 46,473    $ 57,216    $ 62,139    $ 74,013    $ 239,841
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license             $     75    $    441    $    256    $    245    $   1,017
   Cost of support and service   18,152      23,450      21,966      25,505       89,073
   Cost of hardware               8,240      15,341      12,761      15,293       51,635
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------
          Total                $ 26,467    $ 39,232    $ 34,983    $ 41,043    $ 141,725
                                -------     -------     -------     -------     --------

 GROSS PROFIT                  $ 20,006    $  17,984   $ 27,156    $ 32,970    $  98,116
 Income before taxes           $ 12,734    $   6,260   $ 15,390    $ 17,381    $  51,765
 Net Income                    $  8,207    $   4,201   $ 10,176    $ 11,434    $  34,018
 Diluted income per share      $   0.09    $    0.05   $   0.12    $   0.13    $    0.40

</TABLE>


 Item 9   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
 ------   ---------------------------------------------------------------
          Financial Disclosures
          ---------------------
 None.


 Item 9A  Controls and Procedures
 -------  -----------------------
 An  evaluation  was  carried  out  under   the  supervision  and  with   the
 participation of  our management,  including our  Company's Chief  Executive
 Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of the
 design and operations of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant  to
 Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15.  Based upon that evaluation as of  the
 end of the period covered by this report, the CEO and CFO concluded that our
 disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them  to
 material  information   relating   to   us   (including   our   consolidated
 subsidiaries) required to be  included in our periodic  SEC filings.   There
 have not been any significant changes  in our internal controls or in  other
 factors that could  significantly affect  these controls  subsequent to  the
 date of evaluation.


                                   PART III

 Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 -------  --------------------------------------------------
 See the information under the  captions "Election of Directors",  "Corporate
 Governance", "Audit Committee Report",  "Executive Officers and  Significant
 Employees" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance"  in
 the Company's definitive  Proxy Statement  which is  incorporated herein  by
 reference.*


 Item 11  Executive Compensation
 -------  ----------------------
 See the information under  captions "Executive Compensation",  "Compensation
 Committee Report"  and "Company  Performance"  in the  Company's  definitive
 Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
 -------  ------------------------------------------------------------------
          Related Stockholder Matters
          ---------------------------
 See  the  information  under  the  captions  "Stock  Ownership  of   Certain
 Stockholders" ,  "Election  of  Directors"  and  "Equity  Compensation  Plan
 Information"  in  the   Company's  definitive  Proxy   Statement  which   is
 incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
 -------  ----------------------------------------------
 See the information  under the  caption "Certain  Relationships and  Related
 Transactions"  in  the  Company's   definitive  Proxy  Statement  which   is
 incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 --------  --------------------------------------
 See  the  information  under  the  captions  "Audit  Committee  Report"  and
 "Independent  Auditors  -  Audit  and  Non-Audit  Fees"  in  the   Company's
 definitive Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*

 *Incorporated by reference pursuant to  Rule 12b-23 and General  Instruction
 G(3) to Form 10-K.



                                   PART IV

 Item 15  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
 -------  ---------------------------------------------------------------
 (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Report:

 (1)  The following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and  its
 subsidiaries and the  Report of Independent  Auditors' thereon appear  under
 Item 8 of this Report:

      - Independent Auditors' Report.

      - Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended June 30, 2003,
        2002 and 2001.

      - Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2003 and 2002.

      - Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the
        Years Ended June 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

      - Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended June 30,
        2003, 2002 and 2001.

      - Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 (2) The following Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Report
 appear under Item 8 of this Report:

      There are no schedules included because they are not applicable or  the
      required information is shown in the Consolidated Financial  Statements
      or Notes thereto.

 (3) All exhibits not  followed herewith are incorporated  by reference to  a
 prior filing as indicated, pursuant to Rule 12b-32:

    Index to Exhibits
    -----------------
    Exhibit No.         Description
    -----------         -----------
      3.1.7     Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

      3.2.1     Amended and Restated  Bylaws, attached  as Exhibit  A to  the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended
                March 31, 1996.

      10.1      The Company's  1987  Stock  Option Plan,  as  amended  as  of
                October 27, 1992, attached as  Exhibit 19.1 to the  Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September
                30, 1992.

      10.3      The Company's 1995 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan,  attached
                as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form  10-K
                for the Year Ended June 30, 1996.

      10.8      Form of Indemnity Agreement which has been entered into as of
                August  27,  1996,  between  the  Company  and  each  of  its
                Directors and Executive Officers, attached as Exhibit 10.8 to
                the Company's Annual Report on Form  10-K for the Year  Ended
                June 30, 1996.

      10.9      The Company's  1996 Stock  Option Plan,  attached as  Exhibit
                10.9 to the Registrant's Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
                Year Ended June 30, 1997.

      10.11     Line of Credit Agreement dated September 7, 1999, between the
                Company and Commerce Bank, N.A., attached as Exhibit 10.11 to
                the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed September  20,
                1999.

      10.16     Loan and Note  Modification Agreement dated  March 14,  2003,
                between the Company and Commerce Bank, N.A.

      10.17     IBM Business Partner Agreement dated January 1, 2003. *

      21.1      List of the Company's subsidiaries.

      23.1      Consent of Independent Auditors.

      31.1      Certification of Chief Executive Officer

      31.2      Certification of Chief Financial Officer

      32.1      Written Statement of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant  to
                18 U.S.C. Section 1350

      32.2      Written Statement of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant  to
                18 U.S.C. Section 1350

             *  Confidential treatment requested for portions of this exhibit.


 (b) Reports on Form 8-K

 The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the
 period covered by this report:

       - On April 18, 2003, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K which
         reported fiscal 2003 third quarter financial results under Item 12.

<PAGE>

 SIGNATURES
 ----------
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
 signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this
 22nd day of September, 2003.

                   JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC., Registrant

                          By  /s/ Michael E. Henry
                              ---------------------
                              Michael E. Henry
                              Chairman of the Board

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
 report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
 registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

        Signature                   Capacity                     Date
        ---------                   --------                     ----

   /s/ Michael E. Henry    Chairman of the Board and       September 22, 2003
   ----------------------  Chief Executive Officer
   Michael E. Henry        and Director

   /s/ Kevin D. Williams   Chief Financial Officer         September 22, 2003
   ----------------------  and Treasurer (Principal
   Kevin D. Williams       Accounting Officer)

   /s/ John W. Henry       Vice Chairman, Senior Vice      September 22, 2003
   ----------------------  President and Director

   /s/ Jerry D. Hall       Executive Vice President        September 22, 2003
   ----------------------  and Director
   Jerry D. Hall

   /s/ Joseph J. Maliekel  Director                        September 22, 2003
   ----------------------
   Joseph J. Maliekel

   /s/ James J. Ellis      Director                        September 22, 2003
   ----------------------
   James J. Ellis

   /s/ Burton O. George    Director                        September 22, 2003
   ----------------------
   Burton O. George

   /s/ George R. Curry     Director                        September 22, 2003
   ----------------------
   George R. Curry

<PAGE>

                                  SIGNATURES


   Pursuant to the requirements of  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  the
   Registrant has duly  caused this Annual Report on  Form 10-K to be  signed
   on behalf of the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                        JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC.

   Date: September 22, 2003             /s/ Michael E. Henry
                                        --------------------
                                        Michael E. Henry
                                        Chairman of the Board
                                        Chief Executive Officer


   Date: September 22, 2003             /s/ Kevin D. Williams
                                        ---------------------
                                        Kevin D. Williams
                                        Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
