<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>jha01q4b.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2001
<TEXT>

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549

                                  Form 10-K
      (Mark One)

        [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001

                                      OR

        [   ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the transition period from _____________ to _____________

                          Commission Number 0-14112

                        JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC.
            ------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                                   43-1128385
  -------------------------------                      ----------------
  (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
  incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

               663 Highway 60, P. O. Box 807, Monett, MO  65708
               ------------------------------------------------
                   (Address of principal executive offices)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (417) 235-6652

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     None
        -----------------------------------------------------------
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                        Common Stock ($.01 par value)
                        -----------------------------
                               (Title of Class)

 Indicate  by check mark whether the  Registrant  (1) has  filed  all reports
 required to  be filed by Section  13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
 of 1934 during  the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
 registrant was required to  file such reports), and (2) has been  subject to
 such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x   No

 Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
 405 of Regulation  S-K  is not contained herein, and will  not be contained,
 to the best of registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive proxy or information
 statements incorporated by reference in Part III  of  this Form 10-K or  any
 amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]

 As  of August 24, 2001, Registrant  had  89,043,335 shares  of  Common Stock
 outstanding  ($.01 par value).  On  that date,  the aggregate  market  value
 of  the  Common  Stock held  by persons other  than those  who may be deemed
 affiliates of registrant  was  $2,271,050,259  (based on  the average of the
 reported high and low sales prices on NASDAQ on such date).


                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 Certain  sections  of  the  Company's Annual Report  to Stockholders for the
 fiscal year  ended June  30, 2001 and of the registrant's  Notice  of Annual
 Meeting  of Stockholders and  Proxy  Statement  for  its  Annual Meeting  of
 Stockholders,  as  described in  the Footnotes  to  the  Table  of  Contents
 included  herewith,  are  incorporated herein by reference into Parts II and
 III of this Report.

<PAGE>

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                      PAGE
                                                                   REFERENCE
                                                                      (1)
                                                                   ---------

 ITEM 1.    BUSINESS .............................................        3

 ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ....................................       12

 ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS...       12

 ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ..................................       13

 ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ..............................       14

 ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
            CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ..................       15

 ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE
            ABOUT MARKET RISK ....................................       18

 ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
            DATA (2) .............................................       19

 ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING
            AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE .............................       37

 ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (3)       37

 ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (4) ...........................       37

 ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
            MANAGEMENT (5) .......................................       37

 ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS........       37

 ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
            FORM 8-K .............................................       37



(1) Certain information is  incorporated by  reference,  as indicated  below,
    from the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended June 30,
    2001 (the "Annual Report")  and the Company's Notice of Annual Meeting of
    the Stockholders and Proxy Statement (the "Proxy Statement").

(2) Annual Report, page 20 under  the section entitled  "Quarterly  Financial
    Information."

(3) Proxy  Statement sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Executive
    Officers and Significant Employees."

(4) Proxy Statement sections entitled "Executive Compensation", "Compensation
    Committee Report", "Audit Committee Report" and "Company Performance."

(5) Proxy   Statement  sections   entitled  "Stock   Ownership   of   Certain
    Stockholders" and "Election of Directors."

<PAGE>


                                    PART I

 Item 1.   Business

 Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. ("JHA" or the "Company") is a leading provider
 of integrated computer systems  to banks with under  $10.0 billion of  total
 assets, credit unions and other financial institutions in the United States.
 We offer  a complete, integrated suite  of data processing system  solutions
 to improve  our  customers'  management  of  their  entire  back-office  and
 customer  interaction  processes.   We  believe  our  solutions  enable  our
 customers to  provide better  service to  their customers  and compete  more
 effectively  against larger  banks  and alternative  financial institutions.
 Our customers either install and use our systems in-house or outsource these
 operations to  us.    We perform  data  conversion,  hardware  and  software
 installation and  software  customization  for  the  implementation  of  our
 systems  and  applications.  We  also  provide continuing  customer  support
 services  to  ensure  proper  product  performance  and  reliability,  which
 provides us with  continuing  client  relationships  and  recurring revenue.
 For  our customers  who  prefer  not to  acquire  hardware  and software, we
 provide  outsourcing  services  through  eight  data  centers  and  14  item
 processing centers located across the United States.

 Our  gross  revenue has grown  from $126.3 million in  fiscal 1997 to $345.5
 million in fiscal 2001, representing a compound annual growth rate over this
 five-year period of 29.6%.  Net income from continuing operations has  grown
 from $18.5  million  in fiscal  1997  to $55.6  million  in fiscal  2001,  a
 compound annual growth rate of 32%.

 Industry Background
 According  to  the  Automation  in   Banking  2001  report,  all   financial
 institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts and credit unions  in  the
 United States,  increased  spending  on  hardware,  software,  services  and
 telecommunications to  $38.3 billion  in 2000  from $27.2  billion in  1996,
 representing a compound  annual growth rate  of 11.4%.   An industry  survey
 shows that 93% of financial institutions believe upgrading technology is the
 most important issue to their continued success.  We believe that the market
 opportunity for  providers of  hardware and  software systems,  maintenance,
 support and related outsourcing services targeted toward community banks and
 credit unions will continue to grow as a result of the competitive  pressure
 on financial institutions.

 There are approximately 8,300 commercial banks  and 10,500 credit unions  in
 the United  States.   Our primary  market has  historically been  commercial
 banks  with  less  than  $10.0  billion  in  assets,  of  which  there  were
 approximately 8,200 at December 31, 2000.   As of December 31, 2000,   banks
 with under $10.0  billion in assets  had aggregate  assets of  approximately
 $1.9 trillion.   Consolidation within  the financial  services industry  has
 resulted in a 3.7%  compound annual decline in  the population of  community
 banks and a 1.4% compound annual  decline in their aggregate assets  between
 1995 and 2000. We also serve credit unions in the United States.  These  are
 cooperative, not-for-profit  financial  institutions  organized  to  promote
 savings and provide  credit to their  members.  As  of   December 31,  2000,
 there  were  10,538  federally insured credit  unions in the  United States.
 Although the number of these credit  unions has declined at a 2.6%  compound
 annual rate between 1995 and 2000, their aggregate assets have increased  at
 a 7.3% compound annual rate to $449.8 billion in 2000.

 We believe that community/regional banks and credit unions play an important
 role with  the geographic  and demographic  communities and  customers  they
 serve.  Typically, customers of these banks and credit unions rely on  these
 financial institutions  because of  their ability  to provide  personalized,
 relationship-based service and their focus  on local community and  business
 needs.  We believe these core strengths will allow community/regional  banks
 and credit unions to effectively compete  with larger banks and  alternative
 financial institutions.  In order to succeed and to maintain strong customer
 relationships, we believe these banks and credit unions must continue to:

      *    focus on their primary products and services;

      *    respond rapidly to customer demand for new products and services;

      *    implement advanced  technologies,  such as  Imaging  and  Internet
           banking;

      *    use advanced  technologies in  back-office operations  to  improve
           operating efficiency and  control costs  while increasing  service
           and lowering costs to their customers; and

      *    integrate products and services into their core service  offerings
           and data processing infrastructure, to provide the same wide range
           of services as are offered by larger banks.


 In 2000, approximately  59% of commercial  banks utilized in-house  hardware
 and software  systems  to  perform  all  of  their  core  systems  and  data
 processing functions.   Off-site  data processing  centers provided  systems
 services on an outsourced basis for the  remaining 41% of banks.  Since  the
 mid-1980s, banks have tended to shift their data processing requirements in-
 house from outsourcing such functions to  third-party data centers.  Of  the
 community  banks  in   the  United  States   with  in-house   installations,
 approximately 53%,  21%,  and  7% utilize  IBM,  Unisys  and  NCR  hardware,
 respectively.  No other specific hardware platform had more than a 5%  share
 of the market.

 The Internet continues to  become a more powerful  and efficient medium  for
 the  delivery  of  financial  services,  including  Internet  banking,  bill
 payment, bill  presentment  and other  services  for individuals,  and  cash
 management and  other services  for the  commercial customers  of  financial
 institutions.  Financial institutions provide Internet banking solutions  to
 retain customers, attract  new customers, reduce  operating costs, and  gain
 non-interest  sources   of  revenue.     According   to  industry   sources,
 approximately 30% of  banks in the United States offer Internet banking.  We
 believe that community/regional financial institutions risk losing customers
 to larger  or  alternative  financial institutions  if  they  do  not  offer
 competitive Internet banking services.

 Our Solution
 We are a  single-source provider of  a comprehensive and  flexible suite  of
 integrated products and services that address the information technology and
 data processing  needs  of financial  institutions.   Our  business  derives
 revenues from three primary sources:

      *    software licensing and installation services;

      *    support and services; and

      *    hardware sales.

 We develop  software applications  designed primarily  for use  on  hardware
 supporting the IBM OS/400  and UNIX/NT operating systems.   Our product  and
 service offerings are  centered on four  proprietary software  applications,
 each  comprising  the  core  data  processing  and  information   management
 functions of a commercial bank  or credit union.  Key  functions of each  of
 our core software applications include deposits, loans, and general  ledger.
 Our  software applications  make extensive  use of  parameters allowing  our
 customers to tailor the software to  their needs. Our software  applications
 are designed to  provide maximum flexibility  in meeting  our customer  data
 processing  requirements  within  a  single,  integrated  system.  Our  core
 proprietary software applications are:

      *    Silverlake System[R], which operates on the IBM AS/400 and is used
           primarily by banks with total assets up to $10.0 billion;

      *    CIF 20/20[TM],   which  operates on  the IBM  AS/400 and  is  used
           primarily by banks with total assets up to $300.0 million;

      *    Core Director[TM],    which  operates  on  hardware  supporting  a
           UNIX/NT environment and is  used by banks employing  client-server
           technology; and

      *    Symitar System[TM],   which  operates on  the IBM  RS/6000 with  a
           UNIX/NT operating system and is used by credit unions.

 To complement  our  core software  applications,  we provide  a  variety  of
 complementary products and services for use on an in-house or an  outsourced
 basis by community/regional financial institutions.

 We believe that our solution provides strategic advantages to our  customers
 by enabling them to:

      *    Implement  Advanced  Technologies  with  Full  Functionality.  Our
           comprehensive suite of products and  services is designed to  meet
           our  customers'  information  technology  needs  through   custom-
           tailored  solutions  using  proprietary  software  products.   Our
           clients can either  perform these functions  themselves on an  in-
           house basis through the installation of our hardware and  software
           systems or outsource those functions to us.

      *    Rapidly Deploy  New  Products  and Services.    Once  a  financial
           institution has implemented our core software, either in-house  or
           on an outsourced  basis, we  can quickly  and efficiently  install
           additional applications and functions.  This allows our  customers
           to rapidly deploy new products and services.

      *    Focus on Customer Relationships.  Our products and services  allow
           our customers  to  stay  focused  on  their  primary  business  of
           gaining, maintaining  and expanding  their customer  relationships
           while providing the latest financial products and services.

      *    Access  Outsourcing  Solutions  to  Improve Operating  Efficiency.
           Customers utilizing our outsourcing solutions benefit from  access
           to all of  our products and  services without  having to  maintain
           personnel to develop,  update and  run these  systems and  without
           having to make  large up-front capital  expenditures to  implement
           these advanced technologies.


 Our Strategy
 Our objective is to grow our  revenue and earnings internally,  supplemented
 by strategic acquisitions.  The key components of our business strategy  are
 to:

      *    Provide High-Quality,  Value-Added Products  and Services  to  Our
           Clients.  We compete on the basis of providing our customers  with
           the highest-value products and services in the market.  We believe
           we have achieved  a reputation as  a premium  product and  service
           provider.

      *    Continue  to  Expand  Our  Product  and  Service  Offerings.    We
           continually  upgrade our core software applications and expand our
           complementary  product  and  service   offerings  to  respond   to
           technological  advances  and  the  changing  requirements  of  our
           clients.   For  example,  we offer  a  turn-key  Internet  banking
           solution that enables   financial institutions  to rapidly  deploy
           sophisticated new products and services.  Our integrated solutions
           enable our  customers to  offer competitive  services relative  to
           larger banks and alternative financial institutions.  We intend to
           continue to  expand  our  range  of  Internet  banking  and  other
           products and services as well as provide additional services  such
           as network services and computer facilities design.

      *    Expand Our Existing Customer Relationships.   We seek to  increase
           the information  technology products  and services  we provide  to
           those customers that do not utilize our full range of products and
           services.  In  this way,  we are  able to  increase revenues  from
           current customers  with  minimal additional  sales  and  marketing
           expenses.

      *    Expand  Our  Customer  Base.    We  seek  to  establish  long-term
           relationships with new customers  through our sales and  marketing
           efforts and selected acquisitions.   As of June  30, 2001, we  had
           over 2,800 customers, up from 1,240 in 1996.

      *    Build Recurring Revenue.  We  enter into contracts with  customers
           to provide services that meet their information technology  needs.
            We provide ongoing software maintenance  and support for our  in-
           house customers.  Additionally, we provide data processing for our
           outsourcing customers and ATM transaction switching services, both
           on contracts that typically extend for periods of five years.

      *    Maximize Economies of Scale.  We strive to develop and maintain  a
           sufficiently large  client  base  to create  economies  of  scale,
           enabling us to provide value-priced  products and services to  our
           clients while expanding our operating margins.

      *    Attract and Retain Capable Employees.  We believe that  attracting
           and retaining high-quality employees is essential to our continued
           growth and success.  Our corporate culture focuses on the needs of
           employees, a strategy that we believe has resulted in low employee
           turnover.  In addition, we selectively use employee stock  options
           to serve as a strong incentive and retention tool.

 Our Acquisitions
 To complement and  accelerate our  internal growth,  we selectively  acquire
 companies that provide us with one or more of the following:

      *    new customers;

      *    products and services to complement our existing offerings;

      *    additional outsourcing capabilities; and

      *    entry into new markets related to financial institutions.


 When evaluating  acquisition opportunities,  we focus  on companies  with  a
 strong  employee   base  and   management   team  and   excellent   customer
 relationships.    Since  fiscal  1995,  we  have  completed  the   following
 acquisitions:

 Fiscal
  Year    Company                       Products and Services
  ----    -------                       ---------------------
  2000    Symitar                       Data processing systems and services
                                        for credit unions
  2000    Sys-Tech                      Uninterruptible power supply systems
                                        and computer facilities design
  2000    BancData Systems              Outsourcing services
  2000    Open Systems Group            UNIX/NT-based data processing
                                        systems for banks
  1999    Peerless Group                Data processing systems for banks
                                        and credit unions
  1999    Digital Data Services         Outsourcing services
  1999    Hewlett Computer Services     Outsourcing services
  1998    Vertex                        Teller software
  1998    Financial Software Systems    Payroll software
  1998    GG Pulley                     Image and item processing products
                                        and services
  1997    Liberty Banking Services      Outsourcing services
  1996    Central Interchange           ATM network services
  1995    Liberty                       Data processing systems for banks
                                        and outsourcing services
  1995    Sector                        Data processing systems for banks
  1995    CommLink                      ATM network services


 Our Products and Services
 Changing  technologies,  business  practices  and  financial  products  have
 resulted in issues  of compatibility, scalability  and increased  complexity
 for the hardware and software used in many financial institutions.  We  have
 responded to these issues by developing a fully integrated suite of products
 and services consisting of core software systems, hardware and complementary
 products and services.  These address virtually all of a commercial bank  or
 credit  union's  customer  interaction,  back-office  data  and  information
 processing needs.

 We provide our full range of products and services to financial institutions
 through both in-house and outsourced delivery  models.  For those  customers
 who prefer to purchase systems for their in-house facilities, we contract to
 sell computer hardware, license core and complementary software and contract
 to provide installation,  training and ongoing  maintenance and support  and
 other services.

 We also  offer  our full  suite  of software  products  and services  on  an
 outsourced basis to customers  who do not wish  to maintain, update and  run
 these systems or to  make large up-front  capital expenditures to  implement
 these advanced  technologies.   Our  principal  outsourcing service  is  the
 delivery of mission-critical data processing services using our data centers
 located within  the United  States.   We  provide our  outsourcing  services
 through an extensive national data and service center network, comprised  of
 eight data centers and 14 item processing centers.  We monitor and  maintain
 our network on a seven-day,  24-hour basis.  Customers typically pay monthly
 fees on multi-year service contracts for these services.

 Hardware Systems
 Our software operates  on a variety  of hardware systems.   We have  entered
 into remarketing agreements with IBM, NCR and other hardware providers  that
 allow us to purchase hardware  at a discount and  sell (remarket) it to  our
 customers together with our  software applications.   We currently sell  the
 IBM AS/400,  which  is IBM's  premier  mid-range hardware  system,  the  IBM
 RS/6000, NCR servers and  reader/sorters, BancTec reader/sorters and  Unisys
 reader/sorters.

 We have a long-term strategic relationship  with IBM, dating to the  initial
 design of our first core software applications  more than 20 years  ago.  In
 addition to our remarketing agreement with IBM, which we renew  annually, we
 have  been  named  a  "Premier Business Partner"  of IBM  for the  last nine
 consecutive years.  Our relationship with IBM provides us with a substantial
 and ongoing source of revenue.

 Our  remarketing  strategy   was  expanded   in  2001   to  include   Unisys
 reader/sorter hardware products to  allow us to  respond to customer  demand
 for alternative hardware products and sell our complementary image  software
 applications to a broader-based market.

 Core Software Applications
 Each of  our  core software  systems  consists of  several  fully-integrated
 application modules,  such  as  deposits, loans,  general  ledger,  and  the
 customer information file, which is  a centralized file containing  customer
 data for all  applications.  We  can custom-tailor  these modules  utilizing
 parameters determined by our customer. The applications can be connected  to
 a wide variety of peripheral hardware devices used in bank operations.   Our
 software  is  designed  to  provide  maximum  flexibility  in  meeting   our
 customers' data processing requirements within  a single system to  minimize
 data entry and improve efficiencies.

 For our customers who choose to acquire in-house capabilities, we  generally
 license our core system under standard license agreements which provide  the
 customer with a fully-paid, nonexclusive,  nontransferable right to use  the
 software on a single computer and at a single location.  These same  systems
 can be delivered on an outsourced basis as well.

 Our core  software  applications  are  differentiated  broadly  by  size  of
 customer,  scalability,  customizable  functionality,  customer  competitive
 environment and, to a lesser extent, cost.  Our core applications include:

      *    Silverlake System, which operates  on the IBM  AS/400 and is  used
           primarily by banks with total assets up to $10.0 billion;

      *    CIF 20/20, which operates on the IBM AS/400 and is used  primarily
           by banks with total assets up to $300.0 million;

      *    Core Director,  which operates  on hardware  supporting a  UNIX/NT
           environment  and  is   used  by   banks  employing   client-server
           technology; and

      *    Symitar System, which operates on the  IBM RS/6000 with a  UNIX/NT
           operating system and is used by credit unions.

 Complementary Products and Services
 To  enhance  our  core  software  applications,  we  provide  a  number   of
 complementary products and services, including:

      Vertex[TM] Teller  Automation System  is  an online  teller  automation
      system that enables  tellers to process  transactions more  efficiently
      and with greater accuracy.

      Streamline Platform  Automation[TM] is  a fully-automated  new  account
      origination solution  that  integrates  new  customer  data,  including
      signature cards, disclosure statements, and loan applications into  the
      core customer data files on a real-time basis.

      Alliance Check Image  Solutions[TM] allow our  customers to create  and
      store digital check images for inclusion  in monthly statements and  to
      facilitate their customer support services.

      4|sight[TM] Item  Image Solutions  is our   new  generation of  imaging
      products, which allows our customers to create and store digital  check
      images for inclusion in  monthly statements, facilitate their  customer
      support  services   and   leverage  their   investments   with   system
      integration.

      Silhouette Document Imaging[TM] utilizes digital storage and  retrieval
      technology to provide online instant access to document images, such as
      loan documents and signature cards.

      PinPoint Report Retrieval[TM] enables system-wide storage and retrieval
      of computer-generated reports for simplified information access.

      NetTeller[TM] and  MemberConnect Web[TM]  provides Internet-based  home
      banking and commercial cash management.  See "Online Banking'' below.

      InTouch Voice Response[TM] provides a fully-automated interactive voice
      response  system  for  24-hour  telephone-based  banking  and  customer
      service.

      Centurion Disaster Recovery[TM] provides multi-tiered disaster recovery
      protection, including comprehensive disaster planning and procedures.

      TimeTrack Payroll System[TM] is  a fully-integrated payroll  accounting
      and human resources software system.

      FormSmart[TM] provides day-to-day operating  forms, year-end tax  forms
      and other printing and office supplies.

      CommLink[TM] ATM & Transaction  Processing Solutions provides  national
      switching and processing services for ATM, debit card transactions  and
      point-of-sale transactions.

      Other software products such as proof of deposit, secondary market loan
      servicing, account  reclassification,  and  investment  sweeps  further
      complement our core systems.


 Installation and Training
 Although not a requirement  of the software contract,  virtually all of  our
 customers contract  with  us  for  installation  and  training  services  in
 connection  with  their  purchase  of   in-house  systems.    The   complete
 installation process of a core  system typically includes planning,  design,
 data conversion, hardware set-up  and testing.  At  the culmination of  this
 installation  process,  one  of  our  installation  teams  travels  to   our
 customer's facilities  to ensure  the smooth  transfer of  data to  the  new
 system.  Installation fees are charged separately to our customers on either
 a fixed fee or hourly charge model depending on the system, with full  pass-
 through to  our  customers  of travel  and  other  expenses.    Installation
 services are also required in connection with new outsourcing customers, and
 are billed separately at the time of installation.

 Both in connection with installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis,
 our customers need, and we provide, extensive training services and programs
 related to  our products  and services.   Training  can be  provided in  our
 regional training  centers, at  meetings and  conferences or  onsite at  our
 customers'  locations,  and  can  be  customized  to  meet  our   customers'
 requirements.  The large majority of our customers acquire training services
 from us, both to improve their  employees' proficiency and productivity  and
 to make full use of the  functionality of our systems.  Generally,  training
 services are paid  for on an  hourly basis, however,  we have recently  been
 successful  in  marketing  annual   subscriptions  for  training   services,
 representing blocks of training time that can be used by our customers in  a
 flexible fashion and the related revenue  is recognized as the services  are
 provided.

 Support and Services
 Following the  installation  of  our hardware  and  software  systems  at  a
 customer site, we provide  ongoing software support  services to assist  our
 customers in operating the systems and to periodically update the  software.
 We  also offer support services for hardware, primarily through our hardware
 suppliers, providing customers  who have  contracted for  this service  with
 "one-call'' system support covering hardware and software applications.

 Support is provided  through a 24-hour  telephone service  available to  our
 customers seven days  a week. Most  questions and problems  can be  resolved
 quickly by our experienced support staff.  For more complicated issues,  our
 staff, with our customers' permission, can log on to our customers'  systems
 remotely.   We maintain  our customers'  software largely  through  releases
 which contain  improvements and  incremental additions.   Updates  also  are
 issued when required  by changes  in applicable  laws and  regulations.   We
 provide maintenance and support services on our core systems as well as  our
 complementary software products.

 Nearly  all  of  our in-house customers  purchase support services  from us.
 These services are a significant source of recurring revenue, are contracted
 for on an annual basis and are typically priced at approximately 18% of  the
 particular software product's license fee.   These fees may be increased  as
 our customers'  asset base  increases  and as  they  increase the  level  of
 functionality  of  their  system  by  purchasing  additional   complementary
 products.   Software support  fees are  generally paid  in advance  for  the
 entire  year,  with proration for new contracts which start during the year.
 Hardware support  fees are  also paid  in advance  for the  entire  contract
 period which ranges from  one to five years.   Most contracts  automatically
 renew annually unless  we or  our customer  gives notice  of termination  at
 least 60 days  prior to expiration.   Identical support  is provided to  our
 outsourced customers, but are not separately priced in their overall monthly
 fees.

 Online Banking
 We provide a suite of fully  integrated Internet products and services  that
 enables  financial  institutions  to offer  Internet banking and  e-commerce
 solutions to their customers.  Our offerings include:

      NetTeller,  an  Internet-based  home  banking  system  for   individual
      customers and  commercial cash  management  for business  customers  of
      community banks;

      MemberConnect Web,  an Internet-based  home banking  system for  credit
      union members;

      Bill Pay, which allows customers to pay bills online; and

      NetHarbor, which  provides  our  customers with  a  custom-branded  web
      portal that enables them to provide  their customers with a variety  of
      customized information  and e-commerce  opportunities, including  user-
      defined content  such as  local or  special interest  events,  weather,
      financial news and other information.


 Research and Development
 We devote significant effort and expense to develop new software and service
 products  and  continually  upgrade  and  enhance  our  existing  offerings.
 Typically, we  upgrade  our  core software  applications  and  complementary
 services once  per year.    We believe  that  our research  and  development
 efforts are  highly efficient  because of  the extensive  experience of  our
 research and development staff and because our product development is highly
 customer-driven.  Through our regular contact  with customers at user  group
 meetings, sales contacts and through  our ongoing maintenance services,  our
 customers inform us of the new products and functionalities they desire.

 Sales and Marketing
 Our primary markets consist of commercial banks and credit unions.  We  have
 not devoted  significant  marketing and  sales  efforts to  other  financial
 institutions such  as thrifts.   Historically,  we have  primarily and  most
 successfully marketed to banks with up  to $5.0 billion in total assets  and
 credit unions of all sizes.

 Our sales efforts are conducted by a dedicated field sales force, an  inside
 sales team and a technical sales support team, all of which are overseen  by
 regional sales managers.  Our dedicated field sales force is responsible for
 pursuing lead generation  activities and  representing the  majority of  our
 products and solutions to current and prospective clients.  Our inside sales
 force sells certain complementary products to  our  existing customers.  All
 sales force personnel  have responsibility  for a specific  territory.   The
 sales support  team writes  business proposals  and contracts  and  prepares
 responses to  request-for-proposals  regarding  our  software  and  hardware
 solutions.   All  of our  sales  professionals  receive a  base  salary  and
 performance-based commission compensation.

 Our marketing effort consists  of attendance at  trade shows, printed  media
 advertisement  placements,  internally   developed  and  managed   marketing
 campaigns.   We also  conduct a  number  of field  and national  user  group
 meetings each  year  that  enable us  to  keep  in close  contact  with  our
 customers and demonstrate new products and services to them.

 We have 24 installations  in the Caribbean  primarily through the  marketing
 efforts  of   our  wholly-owned   foreign  sales   subsidiary,  Jack   Henry
 International Limited.  Our international sales have historically  accounted
 for less than 1% of our revenues.

 Backlog
 Our backlog consists of contracted in-house products and services (prior  to
 delivery)  and  the  minimum  amounts  due  on  the  remaining  portion   of
 outsourcing contracts,  which  are typically  for  five-year periods.    Our
 backlog at  June 30,  2001 was  $49.5   million  for in-house  products  and
 services and $77.6 million for outsourcing services, with a total backlog of
 $127.1  million.  Backlog  at June 30, 2000  was $43.0 million for  in-house
 products and services  and $61.4 million  for outsourcing  services, with  a
 total backlog  of  $104.4 million.    Our  backlog is  subject  to  seasonal
 variations and can  fluctuate quarterly  due to  various factors,  including
 slower contract processing rates during the summer months.

 Competition
 The market  for companies  that provide  technology solutions  to  financial
 institutions  is  competitive  and  fragmented,  and  we  expect   continued
 competition from  both existing  competitors and  companies that  enter  our
 existing or future  markets.  Some  of our current  competitors have  longer
 operating histories, larger customer bases and greater financial  resources.
 The  principal competitive  factors affecting  the market  for our  services
 include comprehensiveness of the  applications, features and  functionality,
 flexibility and  ease of  use, customer  support, references  from  existing
 customers and price.  We compete  with large vendors that offer  transaction
 processing products and services to financial institutions, including Bisys,
 Inc., AllTel  Information Services,  Fiserv, Inc.  and Marshall  and  Ilsley
 Corporation.  In addition, we compete with a number of providers that  offer
 one or more specialized  products or services.   There has been  significant
 consolidation  among  providers  of  information  technology  products   and
 services to financial institutions, and  we believe this consolidation  will
 continue in the future.

 Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks
 Although we believe that  our success depends  upon our technical  expertise
 more than  on our  proprietary rights,  our future  success and  ability  to
 compete depends in part  upon our proprietary technology.   We have  already
 registered or filed applications  for our primary trademarks.   None of  our
 technology is patented.   Instead, we rely on  a combination of  contractual
 rights and copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to establish and protect
 our  proprietary  technology.    We  generally  enter  into  confidentiality
 agreements  with  our  employees,  consultants,  resellers,  customers   and
 potential customers.  We restrict access  to and distribution of our  source
 code  and  further  limit  the  disclosure  and  use  of  other  proprietary
 information.   Despite  our  efforts  to  protect  our  proprietary  rights,
 unauthorized parties may  attempt to  copy or  otherwise obtain  or use  our
 products or technology.   We cannot be sure  that the steps  taken by us  in
 this regard will be adequate to  prevent misappropriation of our  technology
 or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are
 substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.


 Government Regulation
 The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex  federal
 and state regulation.  Our current and prospective customers, which  consist
 of financial  institutions  such  as  community/regional  banks  and  credit
 unions, operate  in  markets  that are  subject  to  substantial  regulatory
 oversight and supervision.   We must ensure that  our products and  services
 work within the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to
 our customers, including those under the federal truth-in-lending and truth-
 in-deposit rules, usury  laws, the Equal  Credit Opportunity  Act, the  Fair
 Housing Act, the Electronic  Funds Transfer Act,  the Fair Credit  Reporting
 Act, the  Bank  Secrecy  Act  and  the  Community  Reinvestment  Act.    The
 compliance of our products and services with these requirements depends on a
 variety of factors including  the particular functionality, the  interactive
 design and the classification of customers.   Our customers must assess  and
 determine what is required of them under these regulations and they contract
 with us to ensure that our products and services conform to their regulatory
 needs.   It  is  not possible  to  predict  the impact  that  any  of  these
 regulations could have on our business in the future.

 We are not chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, the Board
 of Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve  System, the  National  Credit  Union
 Administration or other federal or state agencies that regulate or supervise
 depository institutions.  The services provided by our OutLink Data  Centers
 are subject to examination by the Federal depository institution  regulators
 under the Bank  Service Company Act.   On occasion  these services are  also
 subject to examination by state banking authorities.

 We provide outsourced  data and item  processing through our  geographically
 dispersed OutLink Data  Centers, electronic  transaction processing  through
 CommLink ATM and Transaction Processing Solutions, Internet banking  through
 NetTeller online  banking,  and  bank  business  recovery  services  through
 Centurion  Disaster  Recovery.     As  a   service  provider  to   financial
 institutions,  our   operations  are   governed  by   the  same   regulatory
 requirements as those imposed on financial institutions.  We are subject  to
 periodic review by federal depository institution regulators who have  broad
 supervisory authority to remedy any shortcomings identified in such reviews.

 The privacy  requirements in  Title V  of the  Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act  ("the
 Act"), adopted in November  of 1999, represent a  significant change in  the
 federal legal framework  governing how  providers of  financial services  in
 this  country  interact  with  their  customers.   Regulations  implementing
 Title V  established  standards  for  financial  institutions  relating   to
 administrative, technical and physical  safeguards for customer records  and
 information.  Financial institutions are required to evaluate their controls
 on access to customer information and their policies for encrypting customer
 information while it  is being transmitted  or stored on  networks to  which
 unauthorized persons may have access.   As a software company that  provides
 services to financial institutions, we  are covered under these  regulations
 and may have to  adopt additional safeguards within  our software to  ensure
 that we and our customers are in compliance with the Act.

 Employees
 As of June  30, 2001 and 2000,  we had 1,910 and 1,589  full time  employees
 respectively .   Our employees are  not covered by  a collective  bargaining
 agreement and there have been no labor-related work stoppages.  We  consider
 our relationship with our employees to be good.


                                 RISK FACTORS

 The Company's business  and the results  of its operations  are affected  by
 numerous factors and uncertainties, some of which are beyond their  control.
 The  following is a  description of some of  the important risk factors  and
 uncertainties that may cause the actual results of the Company's  operations
 in future  periods to  differ materially  from those  currently expected  or
 desired.

 We  may not be able to continue or  effectively manage our rapid growth.  We
 have  grown at a rapid pace,  both internally and through acquisitions.  Our
 expansion has  and  will  continue  to  place  significant  demands  on  our
 administrative, operational, financial and management personnel and systems.
 We  cannot assure you that we will be able to enhance and expand our product
 lines, manage  costs, adapt  our infrastructure  and modify  our systems  to
 accommodate future growth.

 If we fail to adapt our products  and services to changes in technology,  we
 could lose existing customers  and be unable to  attract new business.   The
 markets  for  our   software  and   hardware  products   and  services   are
 characterized by  changing  customer requirements  and  rapid  technological
 changes.   These  factors and  new  product introductions  by  our  existing
 competitors or  by new  market  entrants could  reduce  the demand  for  our
 existing products and services and we may be required to develop or  acquire
 new products and services.  Our  future success is dependent on our  ability
 to enhance our  existing products  and services in  a timely  manner and  to
 develop or acquire new products and services.   If we are unable to  develop
 or acquire new products and services  as planned, or fail to achieve  timely
 market acceptance of our new or enhanced products and services, we may incur
 unanticipated expenses, lose sales or fail to achieve anticipated revenues.

 Acquisitions may be  costly and difficult  to integrate.   We have  acquired
 several  businesses  and   will  continue  to   explore  possible   business
 combinations in the future.   We may not  be able to successfully  integrate
 acquired companies.    We may  encounter  problems in  connection  with  the
 integration of  new businesses  including:  financial control  and  computer
 system compatibility; unanticipated costs; unanticipated quality or customer
 problems with  acquired  products  or services;  diversion  of  management's
 attention; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers
 and customers; loss of key employees; and significant amortization  expenses
 related to identifiable intangible assets.  Without additional acquisitions,
 we may not  be able  to grow and  to develop  new products  and services  as
 quickly as we  have in  the past  to meet  competitive challenges.   If  our
 integration strategies fail, our  business, financial condition and  results
 of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

 If our strategic  relationship with  IBM were  terminated, it  could have  a
 negative impact  on  the  continuing  success of  our  business.    We  have
 developed a strategic relationship with IBM.  As part of this  collaborative
 relationship, we market and sell IBM hardware and equipment to our customers
 under an  industry  remarketer  agreement  and  resell  maintenance  on  IBM
 hardware products to our customers.  Much of our software is designed to  be
 compatible with the IBM hardware that is run by a majority of our customers.
 If IBM were to terminate or fundamentally modify our strategic relationship,
 our relationship  with our  customers and  our revenues  and earnings  would
 suffer.  We could also lose software market share or be required to redesign
 existing products or develop new products that would be compatible with  the
 hardware used by our customers.

 Competition may  result in  price reductions  and decreased  demand for  our
 products and services.  We expect  that competition in the markets we  serve
 will  remain  vigorous.   We  compete  on  the  basis  of  product  quality,
 reliability, performance, ease of use, quality  of support and pricing.   We
 cannot guarantee  that we  will be  able to  compete successfully  with  our
 existing competitors or  with companies that  may enter our  markets in  the
 future.  Certain  of our competitors  have strong  financial, marketing  and
 technological resources and, in some cases,  a larger customer base than  we
 do.  They may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging  technologies
 or to devote greater resources to  the promotion and sale of their  products
 and services.

 The loss of key employees could adversely affect our business.  We depend to
 a significant  extent  on the  contributions  and abilities  of  our  senior
 management.  Our  Company has grown  significantly in recent  years and  our
 management remains concentrated in a small  number of key employees.  If  we
 lose one or more of our key employees, we  could suffer a loss of sales  and
 delays in new product development, and management resources would have to be
 diverted from other activities to compensate for this loss.  We do not  have
 employment agreements  with  any  of our  executive  officers,  however,  we
 currently have a management succession plan in place and are naming specific
 managers successors.

 Consolidation of  financial  institutions could  reduce  the number  of  our
 customers   and  potential  customers.   Our  primary  market  consists   of
 approximately 8,300 commercial banks and 10,500  credit unions.  The  number
 of commercial banks and credit unions  has decreased as a result of  mergers
 and  acquisitions  and  is  expected  to   continue  to  decrease  as   more
 consolidation  occurs, which  will reduce our number of potential customers.
 As a result  of this  consolidation, some  of our  existing customers  could
 terminate, or  refuse  to  renew  their  contracts  with  us  and  potential
 customers could break off negotiations with us.

 The  services  we  provide  to  our  customers  are  subject  to  government
 regulation that could hinder our ability to develop portions of our business
 or impose additional constraints on the way we conduct our operations.   The
 financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal  and
 state regulation.  As a supplier of services to financial institutions, some
 of our  operations are  examined by  the Office  of the  Comptroller of  the
 Currency, the  Federal  Reserve  Board and  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance
 Corporation, among  other  regulatory  agencies.   These  agencies  regulate
 services we provide and the manner in which we operate, and we are  required
 to  comply  with  a broad  range  of applicable  laws  and regulations.   In
 addition,  existing  laws,  regulations  and policies  could  be  amended or
 interpreted differently by regulators in a manner that has a negative impact
 on our existing operations  or  that  limits our future growth or expansion.
 Our customers  are also  regulated entities,  and the  form and  content  of
 actions by regulatory  authorities could determine  both the decisions  they
 make concerning the purchase of data  processing and other services and  the
 timing and implementation of these decisions.  The development of  financial
 services over the  Internet has  raised concerns  with respect  to the  use,
 confidentiality and security  of private customer  information.   Regulatory
 agencies,  Congress  and   state  legislatures   are  considering   numerous
 regulatory and statutory proposals to protect the interests of consumers and
 to require compliance by the industry with standards and policies that  have
 not been defined.

 Network or  Internet  security  problems could  damage  our  reputation  and
 business.  We rely on standard  network and Internet security systems,  most
 of which  we  license  from  third parties,  to  provide  the  security  and
 authentication necessary to  effect secure transmission  of data.   Computer
 networks and the  Internet are vulnerable  to unauthorized access,  computer
 viruses and other disruptive  problems.  In  addition, advances in  computer
 capabilities, new discoveries in the field  of cryptography or other  events
 or developments may render our security measures inadequate.  Someone who is
 able  to  circumvent  security  measures  could  misappropriate  proprietary
 information or  cause  interruptions  in our  operations  or  those  of  our
 customers.  Security risks may result in liability to us and also may  deter
 financial institutions from purchasing our products.  We may need to  expend
 significant capital  or other  resources protecting  against the  threat  of
 security breaches or alleviating problems  caused by breaches.   Eliminating
 computer viruses  and  alleviating other  security  problems may  result  in
 interruptions, delays or cessation of service  to users, any of which  could
 harm our business.

 As technology becomes less expensive and  more advanced, purchase prices  of
 hardware  may  decline  and  our  revenues  and  profits  from   remarketing
 arrangements  may  decrease.    Computer  hardware  technology  is   rapidly
 developing.  Hardware  manufacturers are producing  less expensive and  more
 powerful equipment each year, and we expect this trend to continue into  the
 future.  As computer hardware becomes  less expensive, revenues and  profits
 derived from  our hardware  remarketing may  decrease and  become a  smaller
 portion of our revenues and profits.

 An  operational  failure  in  our  outsourcing  facilities could cause us to
 lose  customers.  Damage or destruction  that interrupts  our  provision  of
 outsourcing services could  damage our relationship  with certain  customers
 and may  cause us  to  incur substantial  additional  expense to  repair  or
 replace damaged equipment.  Although we  have installed back-up systems  and
 procedures to prevent  or reduce disruption,  we cannot assure  you that  we
 will not  suffer  a prolonged  interruption  of our  transaction  processing
 services.  In the event that an interruption of our network extends for more
 than several hours, we may experience  data loss or a reduction in  revenues
 by reason of such interruption.  In addition, a significant interruption  of
 service could have a  negative impact on our  reputation and could lead  our
 present and potential customers to choose service providers other than us.


 Item 2.    Properties

 We own  approximately 138  acres located  in Monett,  Missouri on  which  we
 maintain six office  buildings.  We  also own buildings  in Houston,  Texas;
 Allen, Texas; Albuquerque, New Mexico;  Angola, Indiana; Lenexa, Kansas  and
 Shawnee, Kansas.    Our  owned facilities  represent  approximately  240,000
 square feet of  office space.   We have 33  leased office  facilities in  20
 states which total approximately 258,000 square feet.

 We own five aircraft that are utilized  for business purposes.  Many of  our
 customers are located in communities that  do not have an easily  accessible
 commercial airline service.   We primarily use  our airplanes in  connection
 with installation, sales of systems and internal requirements for day to day
 operations.   Transportation  costs  for  installation  and  other  customer
 services are billed  to our customers.   We lease  property, including  real
 estate and related facilities, at the Monett, Missouri municipal airport.


 Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

 We are subject to  various routine legal proceedings  and claims arising  in
 the ordinary course of business. We do not expect that the results in any of
 these legal  proceedings  will  have  a   material  adverse  effect  on  our
 business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 Item 4.  Submission of Matters To a Vote of Security Holders

 None.

<PAGE>
                                   PART II


 Item 5.   Market for  Registrant's  Common Equity  and  Related  Stockholder
 Matters

 The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the
 symbol "JKHY".  The following table  sets forth, for the periods  indicated,
 the high and low sales price  per share of the  common stock as reported  by
 the Nasdaq National Market.  All prices have been adjusted to give effect to
 the 2 for 1 split of the common stock which occurred on March 2, 2001.

                      Fiscal 2001           High         Low
                      -----------           -----       -----
                      First Quarter        $27.25      $19.41
                      Second Quarter        33.13       20.69
                      Third Quarter         31.38       19.81
                      Fourth Quarter        31.19       18.75

                      Fiscal 2000
                      -----------
                      First Quarter        $11.35      $ 7.75
                      Second Quarter        14.13        8.19
                      Third Quarter         20.00       12.06
                      Fourth Quarter        26.50       15.00

 The Company established a practice of paying quarterly dividends at the  end
 of fiscal 1990 and  has paid dividends with  respect to every quarter  since
 that time.  Quarterly dividends per share  paid on the common stock for  the
 two most recent fiscal years  ended June 30, 2001  and 2000, as adjusted  to
 reflect the 2 for 1 stock split in March 2001 and 2000, are as follows:

                      Fiscal 2001            Dividend
                      -----------            --------
                      First Quarter           $.025
                      Second Quarter           .025
                      Third Quarter            .030
                      Fourth Quarter           .030

                      Fiscal 2000
                      -----------
                      First Quarter           $.020
                      Second Quarter           .020
                      Third Quarter            .025
                      Fourth Quarter           .025

 The declaration and payment of any  future dividends will continue to be  at
 the discretion of our Board of  Directors and will depend upon, among  other
 factors, our earnings, capital  requirements, contractual restrictions,  and
 operating and financial condition.  The  Company does not currently  foresee
 any changes in its dividend practices.

 On August  17, 2001,  there were  25,283   holders of  the Company's  common
 stock.   On that  same date  the last  sale price  of the  common shares  as
 reported on NASDAQ was $24.70 per share.
<PAGE>

 Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

<TABLE>
                     Selected Financial Information (*)
                (In Thousands, Except Per Share Information)

                                                  Year Ended June 30,
                                                  -------------------
 Income Statement Data           2001        2000        1999        1998         1997
 ---------------------          -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
 <S>                           <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
 Revenue (1)                   $345,468    $225,300    $193,527    $148,235    $126,256

 Income from continuing
   operations                  $ 55,631    $ 34,350    $ 32,726    $ 24,205    $ 18,492

 Loss from discontinued
   operations                  $      -    $    332    $    758    $    668    $    450

 Net income                    $ 55,631    $ 34,018    $ 31,968    $ 23,537    $ 18,042

 Diluted income per share (2):
 Income from continuing
   operations                  $    .61    $    .40    $    .39    $    .29    $    .23

 Loss from discontinued        $      -    $      -    $    .01    $    .01    $      -
   operations

 Net income                    $    .61    $    .40    $    .38    $    .28    $    .23

 Dividends declared per
   share (2)                   $    .11    $    .09    $    .08    $    .06    $    .05



                                                       June 30,
                                                       --------
 Balance Sheet Data              2001        2000        1999        1998        1997
 ------------------             -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
 <S>                           <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
 Working capital               $ 65,032    $(47,990)   $ 24,133    $ 35,758    $ 16,387

 Total assets                  $433,121    $321,082    $177,823    $133,830    $100,476

 Long-term debt                $    228    $    320    $    211    $    654    $    651

 Stockholders' equity          $302,504    $154,545    $115,798    $ 83,591    $ 60,549


</TABLE>

 * Selected financial information for all prior periods have been restated to
 include all acquisitions that have been accounted for as pooling-of-interest
 as if each had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period reported.

 (1)  Revenues include software licensing and installation revenues;  support
      and service  revenues;  and  hardware sales;  less  sales  returns  and
      allowances.

 (2)  Prior period  amounts have  been adjusted  to  reflect the  100%  stock
 dividends paid March, 2001 and 2000.
<PAGE>


 Item 7.   Management's Discussion and  Analysis of  Financial Condition  and
 Results of Operations

 The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the
 "Selected Financial  Data" and  the  consolidated financial  statements  and
 related notes included elsewhere in this report.


 OVERVIEW

 We provide  integrated computer  systems for  in-house and  outsourced  data
 processing to commercial  banks with under  $10.0 billion  in total  assets,
 credit unions  and  other  financial institutions.  We  have  developed  and
 acquired banking application software systems that we market, together  with
 compatible computer  hardware,  to  financial  institutions  throughout  the
 United States. We also perform data conversion and software installation for
 the  implementation  of   our  systems  and   provide  continuing   customer
 maintenance and support services  after the systems  are installed. For  our
 customers who prefer  not to  make an  up-front investment  in software  and
 hardware, we  provide  our  full  range  of  products  and  services  on  an
 outsourced basis through our eight data centers and fourteen item processing
 centers located across the United States.

 We derive revenues from three primary sources:

   -  sales of software licenses and installation services;

   -  support and services fees; and

   -  hardware sales.

 Over the last five fiscal years, our revenues have grown from $126.3 million
 in fiscal 1997  to $345.5  million in  fiscal 2001.  Income from  continuing
 operations has grown from $18.5 million  in fiscal 1997 to $55.6 million  in
 fiscal 2001.  This growth  has resulted  primarily from  internal  expansion
 supplemented by strategic acquisitions, allowing us to develop new  products
 and expand the  number of  customers who use  our core  software systems  to
 approximately 2,425 as of June 30, 2001.

 Since July 1994, we have completed  15 strategic acquisitions. Ten of  these
 acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting  and
 our consolidated financial statements include  the results of operations  of
 the acquired companies from the dates of their respective acquisitions.  The
 remaining  five  acquisitions were accounted  for as  poolings-of-interests.
 The comparisons  set forth  below reflect  the  fact that  the  consolidated
 financial statements for fiscal  years 2000 and 1999  have been restated  to
 include all acquisitions accounted for  as poolings-of-interests as if  each
 had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period reported.

 Software  sales  and   installation  revenue  includes   the  licensing   of
 application software systems  and the conversion  and installation  services
 contracted with us  by the customer.   We license  our proprietary  software
 products under  standard  license  agreements which  typically  provide  the
 customer with a non-exclusive, non-transferable right to use the software on
 a single  computer and  for a  single  financial institution  location  upon
 payment of  the license  fee. Generally,  25%  to 50%  of license  fees  are
 payable upon execution of the license agreement with additional payments due
 upon either  delivery  of the  software  or  the installation  of  the  last
 application module.  We  recognize 100%  of  software license  revenue  upon
 delivery of  the  software  and  documentation.  We  recognize  installation
 services each month as services are performed under hourly contracts and  at
 the completion of the installations under fixed fee contracts.

 Support and services fees are generated from ongoing services to assist  the
 customer in operating the systems and to modify and update the software  and
 from providing outsourced data  processing services. Revenues from  software
 support are  generated  pursuant to  annual  agreements and  are  recognized
 ratably over the life of the agreements. Outsourcing services are  performed
 through data centers. Revenues from  outsourced data processing are  derived
 from monthly usage fees typically under five-year service contracts with our
 customers. We recognize  the revenues under  these outsourcing contracts  as
 services are performed.

 Cost of  services represents  direct costs  associated with  conversion  and
 installation efforts,  ongoing    support for  our  in-house  customers  and
 operation  of  our  data  centers  providing  services  for  our  outsourced
 customers. These costs are recognized as they are incurred.

 We  have  entered   into  remarketing  agreements   with  several   hardware
 manufacturers under which we sell computer hardware and related services  to
 our customers along with  our in-house banking  software systems.   Revenues
 from hardware sales are recognized when the manufacturers ship the hardware.
 Cost of hardware consists  of the direct costs  of purchasing the  equipment
 from the manufacturers. These costs are  recognized at the same time as  the
 related revenue.

 The Company has two business segments: bank systems and services and  credit
 union systems and  services.  The  respective segments  include all  related
 software, installation, support and service  and hardware sales, along  with
 related cost of services and hardware.


 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


 FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000

 REVENUE - Revenues increased  by 53% from $225.3  million in fiscal 2000  to
 $345.5 million in fiscal 2001. Software licensing and installation increased
 76%; support and service revenues increased 38% and hardware sales increased
 57% compared to  fiscal 2000.  The significant  increase is  due to  organic
 growth in comparison to the prior  year, which was directly impacted by  the
 Y2K slowdown, and  a full year  impact on the  current year of  acquisitions
 made during fiscal 2000.

 Non-hardware revenues, which includes  software licensing and  installation,
 support  and  services  revenues   increased   52%  to  $235.4  million  and
 accounted for 68% of this years' revenues, compared to $155.2 million or 69%
 of revenues for fiscal 2000.

 Hardware sales increased  57% to $110.1  million, and accounted  for 32%  of
 revenues, compared to  $70.1 million, or  31% of total  revenues for  fiscal
 2000.  The increase in hardware sales was in line with the increase in  non-
 hardware revenues for the same reasons.

 COST OF SALES - Cost  of sales increased 52%  from $127.2 million in  fiscal
 2000 to  $193.8  million in  fiscal  2001, compared  to  a 53%  increase  in
 revenues.  Cost of hardware increased  48% compared with the 57% increase in
 hardware revenue.   Cost  of  services increased  55%  compared to  the  52%
 increase in  non-hardware revenues.   This  is primarily  due to  operations
 acquired in the prior year,  whose gross margins are  less than the rest  of
 the Company's.

 GROSS PROFIT - Gross profit increased 55% from $98.1 million in fiscal  2000
 to $151.6 million in fiscal 2001.  Gross margin on non-hardware revenue  was
 50% compared to 51% last  year.  Gross margin  on hardware revenues was  31%
 compared to 27%  last year  primarily due  to sales  mix.   The total  gross
 margin percentage for fiscal 2001 was 44%, up slightly from fiscal 2000.

 OPERATING EXPENSES -   Operating  expenses increased 40% from $47.1  million
 in fiscal  2000 to  $65.8 million  in fiscal  2001.   Selling and  marketing
 expenses increased 46%, research and  development increased 36% and  general
 and administrative expenses  increased 36%  during   fiscal 2001.  Operating
 expenses increased  due to  higher commissions  related to  stronger  sales,
 continued development and refinement of new and existing products and higher
 overhead related to prior acquisitions and overall growth.

 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) -   Other income increased  from $755,000  in  fiscal
 2000 to $1.2 million in fiscal 2001.  The primary change is due to the  debt
 related to acquisitions  in fiscal 2000  being retired in  August 2000  with
 operating cash flows and the proceeds from the secondary offering in  August
 2000.  Interest  income increased  $.5 million,  interest expense  decreased
 $1.0 million and other decreased by  $1.1 million due to  a gain on sale  of
 stock investment in the prior year.

 PROVISION FOR  INCOME TAXES  -  The provision  for  income taxes  was  $31.2
 million, or 36% of income from continuing operations before income taxes  in
 fiscal 2001, compared with $17.4 million,  or 34% of income from  continuing
 operations before income taxes in fiscal 2000.   The rate increase is due to
 the federal  and state  tax benefits  realized in  the prior  year from  the
 disposition of specific assets.

 INCOME FROM  CONTINUING  OPERATIONS  -  Income  from  continuing  operations
 increased 62% from $34.4 million, or  $.40 per diluted share in fiscal  2000
 to $55.6 million, or $.61 per diluted share in fiscal 2001.

 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  - None  this year  compared to  $332,000 loss  from
 discontinued operations in  fiscal 2000, all  of which was  realized in  the
 three months ended September 30, 1999.


 FISCAL 2000 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1999

 REVENUE -  Revenues increased by 16%  from $193.5 million in fiscal 1999  to
 $225.3 million in fiscal 2000. Software licensing and installation increased
 22%; support and service revenues increased 37% and hardware sales decreased
 7% compared to fiscal 1999.  The changes in revenues from the prior year are
 a direct result  of the Y2K  induced slow down  of system  sales during  the
 first half of fiscal 2000, the  significant increase  in post-Y2K demand for
 our products and  services and the  contribution of $21.1  million from  our
 Open Systems Group ("OSG") acquisition in September 1999.

 COST OF SALES -  Cost of sales  increased 19% from $107.2 million in  fiscal
 1999 to  $127.2  million in  fiscal  2000, compared  to  a 16%  increase  in
 revenues.  Cost of  hardware decreased 7% compared  with the 7% decrease  in
 hardware revenue.   Cost  of  services increased  45%  compared to  the  31%
 increase in non-hardware  revenues, with  the most  significant increase  in
 costs resulting from the addition of OSG.

 GROSS PROFIT -  Gross profit increased 14% from $86.3 million in fiscal 1999
 to $98.1 million in fiscal 2000. The gross margin percentage for fiscal 2000
 was 44%, down from 45% during 1999, primarily because of changes in sales
 mix due to the impact of Y2K.

 OPERATING EXPENSES -  Operating expenses increased 29% from $36.6 million in
 fiscal 1999 to $47.1 million in fiscal 2000.  Selling and marketing expenses
 increased 36%,  research  and  development increased  55%  and  general  and
 administrative expenses increased  16% during fiscal  2000.  These  expenses
 grew more rapidly than revenue because,  despite the impact of Y2K  referred
 to above,  we continued  operations and  staffing levels  necessary to  meet
 anticipated demand in the second half of fiscal 2000.  The most  significant
 increase was in  research and development,  a large portion  of which was  a
 result of the continued development of our Internet-related products.

 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) -   Other income decreased  60% from $1.9 million  in
 fiscal 1999 to $755,000 in fiscal  2000.  The $1.1  million gain on sale  in
 September 1999 of a stock investment, acquired in the Peerless  acquisition,
 in large part offset  the increase in interest  expense of $1.8 million  and
 the decrease in interest income of $756,000 from cash investments in  fiscal
 2000 compared to fiscal 1999.

 PROVISION FOR  INCOME TAXES  -   The provision  for income  taxes was  $17.4
 million, or 34% of income from continuing operations before income taxes  in
 fiscal 2000, compared with $18.9 million,  or 37% of income from  continuing
 operations before  income  taxes  in  fiscal  1999.  This  decrease  in  the
 effective tax rate reflects benefits derived  from our tax planning  efforts
 to reduce state income taxes.

 INCOME FROM  CONTINUING  OPERATIONS -    Income from  continuing  operations
 increased 5% from $32.7 million, or $.39 per diluted share in fiscal 1999 to
 $34.4 million, or $.40 per diluted share in fiscal 2000.

 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS -   We incurred  a $332,000  loss from  discontinued
 operations in fiscal  2000, all of  which was realized  in the three  months
 ended September  30,  1999.   This  was $426,000  less  than the  loss  from
 discontinued operations for fiscal 1999.

 Business Segment Discussion

 Revenues in the bank  systems and services  business segment increased  from
 $220.7 million  in fiscal  2000 to  $298.3 million  in fiscal  2001, or  35%
 increase.   Gross  profit in  this  business segment  increased  from  $96.1
 million in fiscal 2000 to $138.1 million, or 44% increase for the year ended
 June 30, 2001.  The changes in revenue and gross profit from the prior  year
 are a direct result of the impact of Y2K on the prior year and the full year
 benefit in the current year of acquisitions made during fiscal 2000.

 Revenues in the credit union systems and services business segment increased
 from $4.7 million in fiscal  2000 to $47.2 million  in fiscal 2001, or  916%
 increase.  Gross profit in this business segment increased from $2.1 million
 in fiscal 2000 to $13.5 million, or 15% increase for the year ended June 30,
 2001.  The increases are due to the acquisition of Symitar Systems, Inc.  on
 June 7, 2000,  which enhanced  the Company's  position in  the credit  union
 marketplace.

 Revenues in the bank  systems and services  business segment increased  from
 $191.3 million  in fiscal  1999 to  $220.7 million  in fiscal  2000, or  15%
 increase.   Gross  profit in  this  business segment  increased  from  $84.7
 million in fiscal 1999 to $96.1 million, or 13% increase for the year  ended
 June 30, 2000.  The changes in revenue and gross profit from the prior  year
 are a direct result of the Y2K  induced slowdown of system sales during  the
 first half of fiscal 2000 and acquisitions made during the respective years.

 Revenues in the credit union systems and services business segment increased
 from $2.2 million in  fiscal 1999 to  $4.7 million in  fiscal 2000, or  111%
 increase.  Gross profit in this business segment increased from $1.6 million
 in fiscal 1999 to $2.1 million, or 27% increase for the year ended June  30,
 2000.   The  increases are  primarily  due  to the  acquisition  of  Symitar
 Systems, Inc. on June 7, 2000, which enhanced the Company's position in  the
 credit union marketplace.

 Liquidity and Capital Resources

 JHA has historically generated  positive cash flow  from operations and  has
 generally used existing  resources and  funds generated  from  operations to
 meet  capital requirements.  The Company expects this  trend to continue  in
 the future.

 Our cash and cash equivalents increased  to $18.6 million at June 30,  2001,
 from $5.2 million at June 30, 2000.  Net cash from continuing operations was
 $72.9 million,  $48.9 million  and $37.8 million for  the years ended   June
 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.  The cash used in the year ended June
 30, 2001,  was  primarily  attributable to  capital  expenditures  of  $57.8
 million and to retire outstanding debt. The cash used during fiscal 2000 was
 primarily attributable to  acquisition costs  of $93.3  million and  capital
 expenditures of $32.6 million.   The cash  used in the  year ended June  30,
 1999, was primarily attributable to capital expenditures of $38.9 million.

 On August  16, 2000,  the  Company completed  a  secondary offering  of  1.5
 million shares (pre-split)  of its common  stock at $43.00  per share  (pre-
 split) less a 5%  underwriters' discount and offering  expenses paid by  the
 Company.   The  net  proceeds  of  approximately  $60.5  million,  plus  the
 proceeds from  sale of common stock and issuance of stock options  exercised
 was used  to retire  all outstanding  debt that  had  been  incurred  during
 fiscal 2000. The  balance remained  available for  working capital,  capital
 expenditures and  other general  corporate purposes.   Cash  from  financing
 activities was  $69.4 million  for the  year  ended June  30, 2000  and  was
 primarily line-of-credit advances used for acquisitions.

 JHA currently has two bank credit lines upon which it can draw an  aggregate
 amount at any one time outstanding of $58.0 million.  The major credit  line
 provides for funding of up to  $50.0 million and bears interest at  variable
 LIBOR-based  rates  (4.49%  at  June  30,  2001).  The  second  credit  line
 provides for funding of up to $8.0  million and bears interest at the  prime
 rate (6.75% at June 30, 2001).

 Subsequent to June  30, 2001, the  Company's Board of  Directors declared  a
 cash dividend of $.03 per  share on its common  stock payable on   September
 20, 2001, to  stockholders of record  on September 6,  2001.  Current  funds
 from operations are adequate for this purpose.  The Board has indicated that
 it plans to  continue paying dividends  as long as  the Company's  financial
 picture continues to be favorable.

 Recent Accounting Pronouncements

 In July  2001,  the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board  ("FASB")  issued
 Statement of  Financial Accounting  Standards ("SFAS")   No.  141,  Business
 Combinations.  This standard eliminates the pooling method of accounting for
 business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001.  In addition, SFAS  No.
 141 addresses the accounting for intangible assets and goodwill acquired  in
 a business combination.  SFAS No. 141 is effective for business combinations
 completed after June 30, 2001.  Adoption of this standard is not expected to
 have a material effect on the  Company's consolidated financial position  or
 results of operations.

 In July 2001,  the FASB also  issued SFAS No.  142, Goodwill and  Intangible
 Assets, which revises the accounting  for purchased goodwill  and intangible
 assets.  Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets with  indefinite
 lives will  no  longer be  amortized,  but  will be  tested  for  impairment
 annually and also in the event of an impairment indicator.  SFAS No. 142  is
 effective for fiscal  years beginning after  December 15,  2001, with  early
 adoption permitted for companies with fiscal years beginning after March 15,
 2001, if their first quarter financial  statements have not previously  been
 issued (i.e., as of July 1, 2001, for the Company).  The impact of  adoption
 of this standard  will be  the Company's  cessation of  the amortization  of
 goodwill beginning July 1, 2001.

 Forward Looking Statements
 Except  for  the  historical  information  contained  herein,  the   matters
 discussed in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
 and Results of Operations and other portions of this report contain forward-
 looking statements within the  meaning of federal  securities laws.   Actual
 results are  subject  to  risks  and  uncertainties,  including  both  those
 specific to the  Company and  those specific  to the  industry, which  could
 cause results to differ materially from  those contemplated.  The risks  and
 uncertainties include, but are not limited  to, the matters detailed  herein
 at "Risk  Factors", above.   Undue  reliance  should not  be placed  on  the
 forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake any obligation to
 publicly update any forward-looking statements.


 Item 7A.  Quantitatives and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk

 Market risk refers to  the risk that a  change in the level  of one or  more
 market prices, interest rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or  other
 market factors  such as  liquidity,  will result  in  losses for  a  certain
 financial instrument or group  of financial instruments.  We  are  currently
 exposed to credit  risk on credit  extended to customers,  interest risk  on
 investments in U.S. government securities and  long-term debt.  We  actively
 monitor these risks  through a  variety of  controlled procedures  involving
 senior management.   We  do  not  currently  use  any  derivative  financial
 instruments.   Based on  the controls  in place,  credit worthiness  of  the
 customer base  and the  relative size  of  these financial  instruments,  we
 believe the risk associated with these instruments will not have a  material
 adverse  affect  on  our  consolidated  financial  position  or  results  of
 operations.

<PAGE>

 Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


                        Index to Financial Statements
                        -----------------------------

        Independent Auditors' Report.................................20
        Financial Statements:

        Consolidated Statements of Income,
        Years Ended June 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.....................21

        Consolidated Balance Sheets,
        June 30, 2001 and 2000.......................................22

        Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity,
        Years Ended June 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.....................23

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
        Years Ended June 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.....................24

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................25



 Financial Statement Schedules:

 There are  no schedules  included because  they are  not applicable  or  the
 required information is  shown in the  consolidated financial statements  or
 notes thereto.

 Supplementary Data:

 The information  required  by  this item  is  contained  under  the  caption
 "Quarterly Financial Information"  on page 20  of the 2001  Annual Report.
 Such information is hereby incorporated by reference.

<PAGE>


 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



 To the Board of Directors of
    Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.:


 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Jack Henry &
 Associates, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the "Company")   as of June 30, 2001  and
 2000,  and  the  related  consolidated  statements  of  income,  changes  in
 stockholders' equity, and  cash flows  for each of  the three  years in  the
 period ended June 30, 2001.  These consolidated financial statements are the
 responsibility of  the  Company's  management.   Our  responsibility  is  to
 express an opinion on these consolidated  financial statements based on  our
 audits.

 We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with auditing  standards  generally
 accepted in the United States of  America.  Those standards require that  we
 plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the
 financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit  includes
 examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and  disclosures
 in  the  financial  statements.    An  audit  also  includes  assessing  the
 accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,  as
 well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe
 that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

 In our opinion,  such consolidated financial  statements present fairly,  in
 all material respects, the  financial position of  Jack Henry &  Associates,
 Inc. and Subsidiaries  at June 30, 2001  and 2000, and the results of  their
 operations and their cash flows  for each of the  three years in the  period
 ended June  30,  2001 in  conformity  with accounting  principles  generally
 accepted in the United States of America.


 /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

 St. Louis, Missouri
 August 21, 2001

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
               JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)

                                                     YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                                -----------------------------
                                                 2001        2000      1999
                                                -------     -------   -------
   <S>                                         <C>         <C>       <C>
   REVENUES
     Software licensing and installation       $101,259    $ 57,688  $ 47,181
     Support and service                        134,138      97,519    71,278
     Hardware sales                             110,071      70,093    75,068
                                                -------     -------   -------
        Total                                  $345,468    $225,300  $193,527

   COST OF SALES
     Cost of hardware                            75,629      51,045    54,661
     Cost of services                           118,242      76,139    52,582
                                                -------     -------   -------
        Total                                  $193,871    $127,184  $107,243
                                                -------     -------   -------

   GROSS PROFIT                                $151,597    $ 98,116  $ 86,284

   OPERATING EXPENSES
     Selling and marketing                       27,770      19,015    14,030
     Research and development                    10,871       8,022     5,183
     General and administrative                  27,216      20,069    17,347
                                                -------     -------   -------
        Total                                  $ 65,857    $ 47,106  $ 36,560
                                                -------     -------   -------
   OPERATING INCOME FROM CONTINUING
     OPERATIONS                                $ 85,740    $ 51,010  $ 49,724

   OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
     Interest income                              1,386         863     1,619
     Interest expense                             (920)     (1,910)      (93)
     Other, net                                     717       1,802       363
                                                -------     -------   -------
        Total                                  $  1,183    $    755   $ 1,889

   INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE
     INCOME TAXES                              $ 86,923    $ 51,765  $ 51,613

   PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                    31,292      17,415    18,887
                                                -------     -------   -------
   INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS           $ 55,631    $ 34,350  $ 32,726

   LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS,
     net of taxes                                     -         332       758
                                                -------     -------   -------
   NET INCOME                                  $ 55,631    $ 34,018  $ 31,968
                                                =======     =======   =======

   Diluted income per share:
     Income from continuing operations         $    .61    $    .40  $    .39
     Loss from discontinued operations                -           -       .01
                                                -------     -------   -------
     Net income                                $    .61    $    .40  $    .38
                                                =======     =======   =======

     Diluted weighted average shares             91,344     85,278     85,282
                                                =======     =======   =======
   Basic income per share:
     Income from continuing operations          $   .64  $     .42  $    .41
     Loss from discontinued operations               -          -        .01
                                                -------     -------   -------
     Net income                                $    .64    $    .42  $    .40
                                                =======     =======   =======

     Basic weighted average shares
       outstanding                              86,834      81,766    80,674
                                                =======     =======   =======

 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>

               JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
               (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

                                                          JUNE 30,
                                                     -------------------
                                                      2001        2000
 ASSETS                                              -------     -------
 <S>                                                <C>         <C>
 CURRENT ASSETS:
   Cash and cash equivalents                        $ 18,589    $  5,186
   Investments, at amortized cost                        985         946
   Trade receivables                                 116,573      73,940
   Income taxes receivable                               537       3,478
   Prepaid cost of product                            17,191      10,645
   Prepaid expenses and other                         17,425       8,130
   Deferred income taxes                                 750         825
                                                     -------     -------
       Total                                        $172,050    $103,150

 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT                              176,193     118,749
   Accumulated depreciation                           37,754      25,464
                                                     -------     -------
                                                    $138,439    $ 93,285

 OTHER ASSETS:
   Intangible assets, net of amortization            101,389     109,282
   Computer software, net of amortization              5,806       5,813
   Prepaid cost of product                            12,007       7,694
   Other non-current assets                            3,430       1,858
                                                     -------     -------
       Total                                        $122,632    $124,647
                                                     -------     -------
       Total assets                                 $433,121    $321,082
                                                     =======     =======

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
   Accounts payable                                 $ 17,846     $ 9,255
   Short-term borrowings                                   -      70,500
   Accrued expenses                                    9,595       9,750
   Current portion of long-term debt                      87         123
   Deferred revenues                                  79,490      61,512
                                                     -------     -------
       Total                                        $107,018    $151,140

 LONG-TERM DEBT                                          228         320
 DEFERRED REVENUES                                    15,514       9,945
 DEFERRED INCOME TAXES                                 7,857       5,132
                                                     -------     -------
       Total liabilities                            $130,617    $166,537

 STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:
   Preferred stock - $1 par value; 500,000                 -           -
     shares authorized; none issued
   Common stock - $.01 par value; shares
     authorized 2001 - 250,000,000;
     2000 - 50,000,000; shares issued 2001 -
     88,846,710; 2000 - 41,357,853                       888         414
   Additional paid-in capital                        145,211      43,753
   Retained earnings                                 156,405     110,378
                                                     -------     -------
       Total stockholders' equity                   $302,504    $154,545
                                                     -------     -------
       Total liabilities and stockholders' equity   $433,121    $321,082
                                                     =======     =======


 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

                                                    YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                           ------------------------------------
                                              2001         2000         1999
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 <S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
 PREFERRED SHARES:                                  -            -            -
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========
 COMMON SHARES:
   Shares, beginning of year               41,357,853   20,517,090   20,194,870
   Shares issued upon exercise of options   3,097,363      500,792      314,277
   Shares issued for Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan                             21,267       11,466        7,943
   Shares issued in secondary offering      1,500,000            -            -
   Stock dividend                          42,870,227   20,328,505            -
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
       Shares, end of year                 88,846,710   41,357,853   20,517,090
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 COMMON STOCK - PAR VALUE $.01 PER SHARE:
   Balance, beginning of year             $       414  $       205  $       202
   Shares issued upon exercise of options          30            5            3
   Shares issued in secondary offering             15            -            -
   Other                                            -            1            -
   Stock dividend                                 429          203            -
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
       Balance, end of year               $       888  $       414  $       205

 ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL:
   Balance, beginning of year             $    43,753  $    32,210  $    26,267
   Shares issued upon exercise of options      18,274        6,394        3,264
   Shares issued for Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan                                818          488          312
   Shares issued in secondary offering         60,510            -          150
   Stock dividend                                (429)        (203)           -
   Tax benefit on exercise of options          22,285        4,864        2,217
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
       Balance, end of year               $   145,211  $    43,753  $    32,210
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------

 RETAINED EARNINGS:
   Balance, beginning of year             $   110,378  $    83,383  $    57,122
   Net loss for the three months ended
    September 30, 1999 - Sys-Tech, Inc.             -          264            -
   Retained deficit of acquired businesses          -            -          (19)
   Net income                                  55,631       34,018       31,968
   Dividends (2001- $.11 per share;
     2000 - $.09 per share; 1999 - $.07
     per share)                               (9,604)      (7,287)      (5,688)
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
       Balance, end of year               $   156,405  $   110,378  $    83,383
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY               $   302,504  $   154,545  $   115,798
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>

               JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                               (In Thousands)


                                                                YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,

                                                            2001        2000        1999
                                                           -------    --------    --------
 <S>                                                      <C>        <C>
 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
    Income from continuing operations                     $ 55,631   $  34,350   $  32,726
    Adjustments to reconcile income from continuing
      operations to cash from operating activities:
        Depreciation and amortization                       21,888      15,473       7,901
        Provision for deferred income taxes                  2,800       2,400         221
        Gain on sale of investments                              -      (1,105)          -
        Other                                                   (3)        175         157
    Changes in:
      Trade receivables                                    (42,633)    (11,870)     (8,540)
      Prepaid expenses and other                           (22,069)     (9,451)     (6,397)
      Accounts payable                                       8,591       3,080      (3,308)
      Accrued expenses                                        (155)     (1,781)      2,716
      Income taxes (including tax benefit from
        exercise of stock options)                          25,225       2,483         805
      Deferred revenues                                     23,547      15,106      11,568
                                                           -------    --------    --------
      Net cash from continuing operations                 $ 72,822   $  48,860   $  37,849

 CASH FLOWS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS                  $      -   $     700   $    (608)


 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
    Capital expenditures                                   (57,781)    (32,619)    (38,884)
    Purchases of investments                                  (982)       (946)     (6,708)
    Proceeds from sale of investments                            -       3,605           -
    Proceeds from maturity of investments                    1,000       6,702       3,100
    Purchase of customer contracts                               -           -      (7,105)
    Computer software developed/acquired                    (1,447)       (875)       (867)
    Business acquisition costs, net of cash acquired             -     (93,280)     (5,905)
    Other, net                                                 375          (6)       (241)
                                                           -------    --------    --------
       Net cash from investing activities                 $(58,835)  $(117,419)  $ (56,610)

 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
    Proceeds from issuance of common stock
     upon exercise of stock options                         18,304       6,399       3,267
    Proceeds from sale of common stock                      61,344         488         462
    Dividends paid                                          (9,604)     (7,287)     (5,688)
    Short-term borrowings, net                             (70,500)     70,101          (2)
    Principal payments on long-term debt                     ( 128)       (296)        (27)
                                                           -------    --------    --------
       Net cash from financing activities                 $   (584)  $  69,405   $  (1,988)
                                                           -------    --------    --------
    Net cash activity for the three months ended
      September 30, 1999 - Sys-Tech, Inc.                 $      -   $     264   $       -
                                                           -------    --------    --------
 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS     $ 13,403   $   1,810   $ (21,357)

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR                5,186       3,376      24,733
                                                           -------    --------    --------
 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR                   $ 18,589   $   5,186   $   3,376
                                                           =======    ========    ========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>
<PAGE>


               JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 NOTE 1: NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY

 Jack  Henry &  Associates, Inc.  ("JHA"  or the  "Company")  is a  computer
 software company which has developed or acquired several banking and credit
 union software systems. The Company's revenues  are predominately earned by
 marketing those systems to financial institutions nationwide along with the
 computer equipment (hardware) and by providing  the conversion and software
 customization  services  for  a financial  institution  to  install  a  JHA
 software  system. JHA  also  provides continuing  support  and services  to
 customers using the systems either in-house or outsourced.

 CONSOLIDATION

 The consolidated financial  statements include the accounts of  JHA and all
 of its wholly-owned subsidiaries and  all significant intercompany accounts
 and transactions have been eliminated.

 POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS

 The consolidated  financial statements  for  all periods  presented  include
 Peerless Group, Inc. ("Peerless"), acquired on  December 16, 1998, and  Sys-
 Tech, Inc. ("Sys-Tech"), acquired on June  1, 2000. These acquisitions  were
 accounted for as poolings of interests, and therefore, all appropriate prior
 periods have  been restated  to  reflect the  acquisitions  as if  they  had
 occurred at the beginning of the earliest period reported (see Note 13).

 Prior to the consummation of the  Sys-Tech acquisition, Sys-Tech's year  end
 was September 30. Therefore, the consolidated statements of income and  cash
 flows for the year ended June 30, 1999 reflect the results of operations and
 cash flows for the Company for  the years then ended combined with  Sys-Tech
 for the year ended September 30, 1999.  As a result of the Company and  Sys-
 Tech having different fiscal year ends, Sys-Tech's results of operations for
 the three  month  period ended  September  30,  1999 were  included  in  the
 consolidated  statement  of  income  for  the  year  ended  June  30,  1999.
 Revenues, net loss from  operations and net loss  of Sys-Tech for the  three
 month   period  ended  September  30, 1999  were  $1,402,000,  $378,000  and
 $264,000, respectively.

 COMMON STOCK

 On January 29, 2001 and January  31, 2000, the Company's Board of  Directors
 declared 100% stock  dividends on  its common stock,  effectively   2 for  1
 stock splits.  The stock  dividends were  paid  March 2,  2001 and  2000  to
 stockholders of record  at the close  of business on  February 15, 2001  and
 February 17, 2000, respectively.  All per share and shares outstanding  data
 in the consolidated statements of income  and the notes to the  consolidated
 financial statements have been retroactively  restated to reflect the  stock
 splits.

 On October 31, 2000, the stockholders voted to increase the number of shares
 of common stock which the Company is authorized to issue from 50,000,000  to
 250,000,000.

 USE OF ESTIMATES

 The preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  accounting
 principles generally  accepted  in the  United  States of  America  requires
 management to  make  estimates  and assumptions  that  affect  the  reported
 amounts of assets and  liabilities and disclosure  of contingent assets  and
 liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
 of revenues and expenses during the  reporting period. Actual results  could
 differ from those estimates.

 REVENUE RECOGNITION

 In October,  1997,  the  Accounting Standards  Executive  Committee  of  the
 American Institute  of  Public  Accountants ("AcSEC")  issued  Statement  of
 Position ("SOP") 97-2, "Software  Revenue Recognition". The Company  adopted
 SOP 97-2 effective July 1, 1998.  SOP 97-2 generally requires revenue earned
 on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each
 element based on the relative fair values  of the elements.  In March  1998,
 AcSEC issued SOP 98-4, "Deferral of the Effective Date of a Provision of SOP
 97-2, Software Recognition",  which deferred portions  of SOP  97-2 for  one
 year.  Revenues  in  fiscal  year  1999  from  the  sales  of  software  are
 recognized in accordance with the enacted portions of SOP 97-2 and  revenues
 in fiscal 2000 from the sale  of software are recognized in accordance  with
 SOP  98-4.  These  adoptions  did  not have  a  material effect  on  revenue
 recognition or results of operations.

 The Securities  and  Exchange  Commission ("SEC")  issued  Staff  Accounting
 Bulletin ("SAB") No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements,"  on
 December 3, 1999.  SAB No. 101,  as amended, provides the SEC Staff's  views
 on selected revenue recognition issues and was adopted by the Company in the
 fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2001.  The adoption of  SAB No. 101 did
 not  have  a  material  effect  on  the  Company's  consolidated   financial
 statements.

 The Company's  various  sources  of  revenue  and  the  methods  of  revenue
 recognition are as follows:

   Software licensing fees - Initial licensing fees are recognized upon
     delivery of the unmodified software.
   Software installation and related services - Fees for these services are
     recognized as the services are performed on hourly contracts and at
     completion on fixed-fee contracts.
   Support and service fees - Fees from these contracts are recognized
     ratably over the life of the in-house support or outsourcing service
     contract.
   Hardware - Revenues from sales of hardware are recognized upon direct
     shipment by the supplier to the Company's customers. Costs of items
     purchased and remarketed are reported as cost of hardware in cost of
     sales.

 PREPAID COST OF PRODUCT

 Costs for  these remarketed  hardware  and software  maintenance  contracts,
 which are prepaid,  are recognized ratably  over the life  of the  contract,
 generally one  to  five  years, with  the  related  revenue  amortized  from
 deferred revenues.

 DEFERRED REVENUES

 Deferred revenues consist primarily of prepaid annual software  support fees
 and prepaid hardware maintenance fees.   Hardware maintenance contracts  are
 multi-year, therefore,  the deferred revenue and prepaid cost of product are
 classified in accordance  with the  terms  of  the  contract.  Software  and
 hardware deposits are also reflected as deferred revenues.

 COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT

 The  Company  capitalizes new  product development  costs incurred  from the
 point at which  technological feasibility has  been established through  the
 point  at  which  the  product  is  ready  for  general  availability.   The
 capitalized costs,  which include salaries and benefits, equipment costs and
 other direct  expenses, are  amortized to  expense  based on  the  estimated
 product life (generally five years).

 CASH EQUIVALENTS

 The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities
 of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

 INVESTMENTS

 The Company invests  its cash that  is not required  for current  operations
 primarily in  U.S. government  securities and  money market  accounts.   The
 Company has the  positive intent  and ability  to hold  its debt  securities
 until maturity and accordingly, these securities are classified as  held-to-
 maturity and are  carried at historical  cost adjusted  for amortization  of
 premiums and accretion  of discounts. Premiums  and discounts are  amortized
 and accreted, respectively, to interest income using the level-yield  method
 over the  period  to  maturity. The  held-to-maturity  securities  typically
 mature in less than one year. Interest on investments in debt securities  is
 included in income when earned.

 The amortized cost of held-to-maturity  securities is $985,000 and  $946,000
 at June  30,  2001 and  2000,  respectively.  Fair market  values  of  these
 securities did  not differ  significantly from  amortized  cost due  to  the
 nature of the  securities and minor  interest rate  fluctuations during  the
 periods.

 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

 Property and equipment is stated at  cost and depreciated principally  using
 the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

 Intangible assets consist of  excess purchase price over  the fair value  of
 net assets  acquired,  customer relationships,  software  and   trade  names
 acquired in  business  acquisitions.  The  amounts  are  amortized  over  an
 estimated economic benefit period, generally five to twenty years using  the
 straight-line method.

 The Company reviews its long-lived  assets and identifiable intangibles  for
 impairment whenever events or changes  in circumstances have indicated  that
 the carrying amount of its assets might not be recoverable.

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

 Comprehensive income for each of the three years  ended June 30, 2001 equals
 the Company's net income.

 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

 In accordance  with  Statements of  Financial Accounting Standards (" SFAS")
 No.  131,  "Disclosure   About  Segments  of   an  Enterprise  and   Related
 Information,"   the  Company's operations  are  classified as  two  business
 segments: bank systems and  services and credit  union systems and  services
 (see Note 14).  Revenue by type of  product and service is presented on  the
 face of  the  consolidated statements  of  income.   Substantially  all  the
 Company's revenues are derived from operations and assets located within the
 United States of America.

 INCOME TAXES

 Deferred tax liabilities and  assets are recognized for  the tax effects  of
 differences between  the financial  statement and  tax bases  of assets  and
 liabilities. A valuation allowance would  be established to reduce  deferred
 tax assets if it is likely that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

 In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued  SFAS
 No. 133, "Accounting  for  Derivative Instruments  and Hedging  Activities".
 SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting  and reporting standards for  derivative
 instruments, including  certain  derivative instruments  embedded  in  other
 contracts  (collectively  referred  to  as  derivatives)  and  for   hedging
 activities.  SFAS No. 133, as  amended by SFAS No.  137 and 138 was  adopted
 July  1,  2000  and  did  not  have  a  material  effect  on  the  Company's
 consolidated financial position and results of operations.

 In July 2001,  the FASB issued  SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations.   This
 standard  eliminates  the   pooling  method  of   accounting  for   business
 combinations initiated  after  June  30, 2001.  In  addition, SFAS  No.  141
 addresses the accounting for intangible assets and goodwill  acquired  in  a
 business combination.  SFAS No. 141  is effective for business  combinations
 completed after June 30, 2001.  Adoption of this standard is not expected to
 have a material effect on the  Company's consolidated financial position  or
 results of operations.

 In July 2001,  the FASB also  issued SFAS No.  142,  Goodwill and Intangible
 Assets, which revises the accounting  for purchased goodwill and  intangible
 assets.  Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets with  indefinite
 lives will  no  longer be  amortized,  but  will be  tested  for  impairment
 annually and also in the event of an impairment indicator.  SFAS No. 142  is
 effective for  fiscal years  beginning after  December 15,  2001 with  early
 adoption permitted for companies with fiscal years beginning after March 15,
 2001 if their first  quarter financial statements  have not previously  been
 issued (i.e., as of July 1, 2001, for the Company).  The impact of  adoption
 of this standard  will be  the Company's  cessation of  the amortization  of
 goodwill beginning July 1, 2001.

 RECLASSIFICATION

 Where appropriate, prior years' financial information has been  reclassified
 to conform with the current years' presentation.


 NOTE 2: FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

 Fair  values for  held-to-maturity  securities  are based  on  quoted market
 prices.   For all other financial  instruments, including amounts receivable
 and  payable,   short-term  borrowings  and   long-term  debt,  fair  values
 approximate carrying value, based on the short-term nature of the assets and
 liabilities and the variability of the interest rates on the borrowings.


 NOTE 3: PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

 The classification of  property and equipment, together with their estimated
 useful lives is as follows:


                                   (In Thousands)
                                 Year Ended June 30,
                                 -------------------
                                   2001       2000     Estimated useful life
                                 -------     -------   ---------------------

 Land                           $  6,519    $  4,602

 Land improvements                 4,731       3,795         5-20 years

 Buildings                        39,290      29,810        25-30 years

 Equipment and Furniture          79,892      55,412          5-8 years

 Aircraft and Equipment           31,737      21,915         8-10 years

 Construction in Process          14,024       3,215
                                 -------     -------
                                $176,193    $118,749
 Less accumulated Depreciation    37,754      25,464
                                 -------     -------
 Property & Equipment, net      $138,439    $ 93,285
                                 =======     =======


 NOTE 4: OTHER ASSETS

 Intangible assets relate to acquisitions and consist of the following:


                                                       (In Thousands)
                                                     Year ended June 30,
                                                    --------------------
                                                     2001          2000
                                                    -------      -------
  Goodwill                                         $ 32,355      $ 32,355
  Customer relationships                             90,612        90,612
  Tradenames                                          3,915         3,915
                                                    -------       -------
                                                   $126,882      $126,882
  Less accumulated amortization                      25,493        17,600
                                                    -------       -------
  Balance, end of year                             $101,389      $109,282
                                                    =======       =======

 Computer  software  includes  the  unamortized  cost  of  software  products
 developed or acquired by the Company which were required to  be  capitalized
 by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 Following is an analysis of the computer software costs:


                                                       (In Thousands)
                                                     Year ended June 30,
                                                     -------------------
                                                      2001         2000
                                                      -----        -----
  Balance, beginning of year                         $5,813       $3,015
  Acquired software                                       -        3,000
  Capitalized development costs                       1,447          875
                                                      -----        -----
                                                     $7,260       $6,890
  Less amortization expense                           1,456        1,077
                                                      -----        -----
  Balance, end of year                               $5,806       $5,813
                                                      =====        =====



 NOTE 5: LINES OF CREDIT AND LONG-TERM DEBT

 LINES OF CREDIT

 JHA currently has two bank credit  lines upon which it can draw an aggregate
 amount at any one time outstanding  of $58.0 million.  The major credit line
 provides for funding  of up to $50.0 million  and bears interest at variable
 LIBOR-based rates  (4.49% at  June 30,  2001, and  weighted average interest
 rates  of 7.79%  and  6.72% for  the  years ended  June  30, 2001  and 2000,
 respectively and  expires December 15, 2001).   At June  30, 2000, this line
 allowed for up to $75.0 million  of funding, and was amended on September 7,
 2000 to  reduce the  maximum to  the aforementioned  amount.  There were  no
 amounts outstanding  under this line  at June 30,  2001.  At June 30,  2000,
 there  was $70.5  million outstanding  of which  the balance outstanding  on
 August 16,  2000 was retired  with the proceeds  from the secondary offering
 (see Note  15).  The second  credit line provides for  funding of up to $8.0
 million and  bears interest at  the prime rate  (6.75% at June  30, 2001 and
 expires March 15, 2002), and is  secured by $1.0 million of investments with
 the remainder unsecured.  There  were no amounts outstanding under this line
 at June 30, 2001 or 2000.

 Sys-Tech had  a line  of credit  with  a maximum  loan amount  of  $400,000,
 bearing interest at the lender's prime rate plus one-half (10.0%  throughout
 June 30, 1999).  Amounts outstanding were  none and $399,000 as of June  30,
 2000 and  1999,  respectively.    The  line  was  secured  by  the  accounts
 receivable and  other  current  assets  of  Sys-Tech.    Subsequent  to  the
 acquisition of Sys-Tech and prior to June 30, 2000, the line was repaid  and
 canceled.

 LONG-TERM DEBT

 The  Company  has notes payable which were assumed during the acquisition of
 BancData Solutions, Inc.   (See Note 15), bearing  interest at 10%,  payable
 monthly.  The notes are secured by  equipment.  Sys-Tech had a note  payable
 with an original loan amount of  $400,000, bearing interest at 10%,  payable
 monthly,  due  August 4, 2001. The note was secured by specific real estate.
 The note was repaid subsequent to  the acquisition of Sys-Tech and prior  to
 June 30, 2000.

                                         (In Thousands)
                                       Year ended June 30,
                                      ---------------------
                                       2001            2000
                                      -----           -----
      Long-term debt                 $  315          $  443

      Less current maturities            87             123
                                      -----           -----
                                     $  228          $  320
                                      =====           =====

 Future maturities of long-term debt as of June 30, 2001, is as follows:

                                         (In Thousands)
                                         --------------
      2002                                  $    87

      2003                                       89

      2004                                       96

      2005                                       43
                                             ------
                                            $   315
                                             ======


 The Company paid interest of $1,150,000,  $1,600,000, and $93,000 in 2001,
 2000 and 1999, respectively.


 NOTE 6: LEASE COMMITMENTS

 The Company leases certain property under operating leases which expire over
 the next six years.  As of June 30, 2001, net future minimum lease  payments
 under  non-cancelable  terms   are  as   follows:  $3,675,000,   $3,612,000,
 $2,340,000, $1,254,000, $395,000  and $250,000  in 2002,  2003, 2004,  2005,
 2006, and thereafter, respectively.  Rent  expense for all operating  leases
 amount to  $3,400,000, $2,200,000  and $1,800,000  in 2001,  2000 and  1999,
 respectively.


 NOTE 7: INCOME TAXES

 The provision for income taxes on income from continuing operations consists
 of the following:


                                        (In Thousands)
                                       Year ended June 30,
                                   --------------------------
                                    2001      2000      1999
                                   ------    ------    ------
    Current:
      Federal                     $26,817   $14,050   $16,860
      State                         1,675       965     1,806
    Deferred:
      Federal                       2,200     1,900       204
      State                           600       500        17
                                   ------    ------    ------
                                  $31,292   $17,415   $18,887
                                   ======    ======    ======


 The tax effects of temporary differences related to deferred taxes shown on
 the balance sheets were:


                                                         (In Thousands)
                                                       Year ended June 30,
                                                       -------------------
                                                        2001         2000
                                                       ------       ------
  Deferred tax assets:
    Carryforwards (operating losses, capital
      losses, credits, etc.)                          $   314      $   615
    Expense reserves (bad debts, insurance,
      franchise tax, vacation, etc.)                      516          825
    Intangible assets                                   1,742        1,548
    Other, Net                                            200            -
                                                       ------       ------
                                                        2,772        2,988
  Deferred tax liabilities:
    Accelerated tax depreciation                       (8,157)      (6,173)
    Accelerated tax amortization                       (1,722)      (1,060)
    Other, net                                              -          (62)
                                                       ------       ------
                                                       (9,879)      (7,295)
                                                       ------       ------
  Net deferred tax liability                          $(7,107)     $(4,307)
                                                       ======       ======

 The deferred taxes are classified on the balance sheet as follows:

                                                         (In Thousands)
                                                       Year ended June 30,
                                                       -------------------
                                                        2001         2000
                                                       ------       ------
  Deferred income taxes (current)                     $   750      $   825
  Deferred income taxes (long-term)                    (7,857)      (5,132)
                                                       ------       ------
                                                      $(7,107)     $(4,307)
                                                       ======       ======

 The following analysis reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to
 the effective income tax rates reflected above:

                                                     Year ended June 30,
                                                  -------------------------
                                                  2001      2000       1999
                                                  ----      ----       ----
 Computed "expected" tax expense (benefit)         35%       35%        35%
 Increase (reduction) in taxes resulting from:
   State income taxes, net of
     federal income tax benefits                    2%        2%         3%
   Research and development credit                 (1%)      (1%)        -
   Other                                            -        (2%)       (1%)
                                                   36%       34%        37%


 Net operating  loss carryforwards  of  $847,000 (from  acquisitions)  expire
 through  the  year  2014.  The  Company  paid income  taxes  of  $3,300,000,
 $13,280,000 and $13,988,000 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


 NOTE 8: INDUSTRY AND SUPPLIER CONCENTRATIONS

 The  Company  sells  its  products  to  banks  and  financial   institutions
 throughout the  United States  and generally  does not  require  collateral.
 Reserves (which are insignificant at June 30, 2001 and 2000) are  maintained
 for potential credit losses.

 In addition, the Company purchases most of its computer hardware and related
 maintenance for resale in relation to  installation of JHA software  systems
 from one supplier.  There are  a limited  number of  hardware suppliers  for
 these required materials.   If this relationship  were terminated, it  could
 have a significant negative impact on the future operations of the Company.


 NOTE 9: STOCK OPTION PLANS

 The Company currently issues options under two stock option plans: the  1996
 Stock Option  Plan ("1996  SOP") and  the  Non-Qualified Stock  Option  Plan
 ("NSOP").

 The 1996  SOP was  adopted by  the  Company on  October  29, 1996,  for  its
 employees. This plan replaced  the terminating 1987  SOP. Terms and  vesting
 periods of the options are determined  by the Compensation Committee of  the
 Board of Directors when granted and for options outstanding include  vesting
 periods up to 2 2  years. Shares of common  stock are reserved for  issuance
 under this plan at  the time of each  grant which must be  at or above  fair
 market value of the stock at the  grant date. The options terminate 30  days
 after termination of  employment, three  months after  retirement,  one year
 after death or  ten years  after grant.   As of  June 30,  2001, there  were
 1,412,940  shares  available  for  future grants  under  the  plan  from the
 original 13,000,000 shares approved by the stockholders.

 The NSOP was adopted  by the Company  on October 31,  1995, for its  outside
 directors. Options are  exercisable beginning six  months after  grant at  a
 price equal to 100% of the fair market value of the stock at the grant date.
 The options  terminate when  director status  ends,  upon surrender  of  the
 option or ten  years after grant.  A total of  1,200,000 shares   of  common
 stock have been  reserved for  issuance under this  plan with  a maximum  of
 300,000 for each director.  As of  June 30, 2001, there were 660,000  shares
 available for future grants under the plan.

 A summary of the activity of all of the Company's stock option plans is:

                                                Year ended June 30,
                                        -------------------------------------
                                          2001          2000          1999
                                        ----------   ----------    ----------
 Options outstanding, beginning of year 13,257,568    8,832,760     8,800,368
 Options granted                         1,422,280    5,969,000     1,389,548
 Options exercised                      (3,285,433)  (1,416,392)   (1,291,556)
 Options forfeited                        (104,616)    (127,800)      (65,600)
                                        ----------   ----------    ----------
 Options outstanding, end of year       11,289,799   13,257,568     8,832,760
                                        ==========   ==========    ==========


 Weighted-average exercise price
   for options outstanding                  $12.68       $10.12        $ 5.40
                                            ======       ======        ======
 Weighted-average exercise price for
   options granted                          $23.57       $15.75        $10.65
                                            ======       ======        ======
 Weighted-average exercise price for
   options exercised                        $ 6.89       $ 4.72        $ 2.59
                                            ======       ======        ======
 Weighted-average fair value of
   options granted                          $ 9.58       $ 6.69        $ 4.79
                                            ======       ======        ======


 Following is an analysis of stock options outstanding (O) and
 exercisable (E) as of June 30, 2001:


  Range of                         Weighted-Average
  Exercise                       Remaining Contractual      Weighted-Average
   Prices            Shares          Life in Years           Exercise Price
                  O          E            O                   O           E
              --------   ---------      -----               -----       -----
 $ 1 to  6    3,424,445  3,424,445       4.92              $ 4.29      $ 4.29
   6 to 13    1,865,574  1,602,646       7.40                9.51        9.54
  13 to 17    4,490,000  2,159,000       8.76               16.88       16.88
  17 to 30    1,479,780    182,000       9.31               23.00       23.53
  30 to 32       30,000          -      10.00               31.06           -
  --------     --------   ---------      -----               -----       -----
 $ 1 to 32   11,289,799  7,368,091       7.45              $12.68      $ 9.59


 OPTIONS FORFEITED


  Fiscal     Range of             Weighted-Average
   Year      Exercise    Shares    Exercise Price
              Price

   2001     $12 to 22    104,616       $18.39
   ====     =========    =======       ======
   2000     $ 4 to 17    127,800       $ 6.19
   ====     =========    =======       ======
   1999     $ 6 to 11     65,600       $ 9.35
   ====     =========    =======       ======

 As permitted under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation",
 the Company has elected  to continue to  follow Accounting Principles  Board
 ("APB") No. 25, "Accounting  for Stock Issued  to Employees", in  accounting
 for stock-based awards to employees. Under APB No. 25, the Company generally
 recognizes no compensation expense  with respect to  such awards, since  the
 exercise price of  the stock options  awarded are equal  to the fair  market
 value of the underlying security on the grant date.

 Pro forma  information  regarding  net income  and  earnings  per  share  is
 required by SFAS No. 123 for awards  granted after December 31, 1994, as  if
 the Company had accounted for its stock-based awards to employees under  the
 fair value method of SFAS  No. 123. The fair  value of the Company's  stock-
 based awards to employees was estimated as of the date of the grant using  a
 Black-Scholes option pricing model.

 The Company's pro forma information for continuing operations follows:


                                      (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
                                              Year ended June 30,
                                       -----------------------------------
                                         2001          2000         1999
                                       -------       -------       -------
 Net income
   As reported                        $ 55,631      $ 34,350      $ 32,726
                                       =======       =======       =======
   Pro forma                          $ 36,450      $ 26,503      $ 27,453
                                       =======       =======       =======
 Diluted income per share
   As reported                        $    .61      $    .40      $    .38
                                       =======       =======       =======
   Pro forma                          $    .40      $    .31      $    .32
                                       =======       =======       =======

 Basic income per share
   As reported                        $    .64      $    .42      $    .40
                                       =======       =======       =======
   Pro forma                          $    .42      $    .32      $    .34
                                       =======       =======       =======

 Assumptions:

 Expected life (years)                    2.92          2.95          2.97

 Volatility                                 54%           56%           56%

 Risk free interest rate                   4.4%          6.2%          5.0%

 Dividend yield                            .36%          .36%          .35%



 NOTE 10: EARNINGS PER SHARE

<TABLE>
 The following table reflects a reconciliation between Basic and Diluted net
 income per share:
                                        (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
                                                Year ended June 30,
                                                -------------------
                            2001                        2000                          1999
                    Net   Weighted  Per Share  Net     Weighted  Per Share    Net    Weighted  Per Share
                   Income  Average   Amount   Income    Average    Amount    Income   Average   Amount
                           Shares                       Shares                        Shares
<S>               <C>      <C>       <C>     <C>        <C>        <C>     <C>        <C>        <C>
Basic Income Per
 Share:
Net income
 available to
 Stockholders     $55,631  86,834    $0.64   $34,018    81,766     $0.42   $31,968    80,674     $0.40
Effect of
 dilutive
 securities:
Stock options           -   4,510    $0.03         -     3,512     $0.02         -     4,608     $0.02
                   ------  ------     ----    ------    ------      ----    ------    ------      ----
Diluted Income
 Per Share:
Net income
 available to
 common
 stockholders     $55,631  91,344    $0.61   $34,018    85,278     $0.40   $31,968    85,282     $0.38

</TABLE>


 NOTE 11:  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

 Stock Purchase Plan  - The Company  established an  employee stock  purchase
 plan on  January  1, 1996.  The plan allows  the majority  of employees  the
 opportunity to directly purchase shares of the Company.  Purchase prices for
 all participants are based on the closing bid price on the last business day
 of the month.

 401(k) Employee Stock  Ownership Plan ("ESOP")  - The Company  has a  401(k)
 Employee Stock  Ownership  Plan  (the  "Plan")  covering  substantially  all
 employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.  As of July 1, 1987, the plan
 was amended and restated to include most of the existing ESOP provisions, to
 add salary  reduction  contributions allowed  under  Section 401(k)  of  the
 Internal Revenue Code and to require  employer matching contributions.   The
 Company matches  100% of  employee contributions  up to  5% of  compensation
 subject to  a maximum  of $5,000.   The Company has the  option of making  a
 discretionary contribution to the Plan, however, none has been made for  any
 of the three most recent fiscal  years.  The Company assumed  responsibility
 for the Peerless Employee 401(k) Plan as of the acquisition date, and merged
 it into the  Plan as  of July 22, 2000.  The Company assumed  responsibility
 for the Symitar Employee  401(k) Plan as of  the acquisition date (see  Note
 13), and plans to merge it into the Plan as of December 31, 2001.  The total
 expense related to the Plans was  $2,986,000, $2,430,000 and $1,321,000  for
 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


 NOTE 12: DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

 In the last quarter of 1996, the Company discontinued the operations of  its
 BankVision Software, Ltd. subsidiary ("BankVision") which it planned to sell
 by December 31, 1996.  The estimated loss on  disposal recorded in 1996  was
 $2,620,000.

 On September  7, 1999,  the Company  completed the  sale of  BankVision  for
 $1,000,000. Under the terms of the agreement, the purchaser made a  $500,000
 down payment and executed promissory notes  to pay $250,000 (plus  interest)
 in September of 2000 and 2001.  The net assets of the subsidiary, as of that
 date,  approximately  equal  the  sales  proceeds,  and  as  a  result,  the
 transaction had  minimal effect  on its  financial results  for fiscal  year
 2000.   Total  loss from  discontinued  operations was  none,  $332,000  and
 $758,000 for the years ended June 30, 2001,  2000 and 1999, respectively.


 NOTE 13: BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

 POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS:

 The Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Peerless on December  16,
 1998, for  approximately $36,000,000  (3,308,000 shares  split adjusted)  in
 Company stock.

 The 1999 consolidated financial statements were  restated for the effect  of
 this  pooling transaction.  The following table presents a reconciliation of
 revenue and net income  previously reported by the  Company and Peerless  to
 those presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.


                                   (In Thousands)
                                  Three Months Ended
                                  September 30, 1998
                                       -------
 Revenues:
   JHA                                $ 40,728
   Peerless                              8,921
                                       -------
   Combined                           $ 49,649
                                       =======

 Net Income
   JHA                                $  8,296
   Peerless                                497
                                       -------
   Combined                           $  8,793
                                       =======

 On June 1, 2000, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Sys-Tech
 for approximately  $16,000,000 (834,000  shares split  adjusted) in  Company
 stock.

 The 2000 and 1999  consolidated financial statements  were restated  for the
 effect  of  this  pooling  transaction.  The  following  table  presents   a
 reconciliation of revenue and net income previously reported by the Company,
 and  Sys-Tech to those presented in the accompanying consolidated  financial
 statements.

                                  (In Thousands)
                        Nine Months Ended
                         March 31, 2000      Fiscal 1999
                             -------            -------
 Revenues:
   JHA                      $150,239           $184,504
   Sys-Tech                    5,692              9,023
                             -------            -------
   Combined                 $155,931           $193,527
                             =======            =======

 Net Income
   JHA                      $ 22,588           $ 31,768
   Sys-Tech                       (4)               200
                             -------            -------
   Combined                 $ 22,584           $ 31,968
                             =======            =======


 PURCHASE TRANSACTIONS:

 On September  8, 1999,  the Company's  wholly-owned subsidiary  Open  System
 Group, Inc. ("OSG"), completed the acquisition of BancTec, Inc.'s  community
 banking business, providing  software, account  processing capabilities  and
 data center operations  to over 700  community banks  throughout the  United
 States and the  Caribbean. Revenues  from these  acquired community  banking
 operations totaled approximately $17,000,000 for  the six months ended  June
 30, 1999. The total value of the transaction was approximately  $56,136,000,
 made up  of  $50,000,000  paid in  cash,  the  assumption  of  approximately
 $5,475,000 liabilities  and  $661,000 in  transaction  costs.   The  Company
 allocated the  purchase price to the assets and liabilities  acquired  based
 on  their  estimated  fair  value  at  the  acquisition  date,  resulting in
 allocations  of  $39,000,000,   $5,315,000   and   $1,000,000  to   acquired
 customer relationships,  goodwill and software,  respectively.  The customer
 relationships, goodwill and software are being amortized on a  straight-line
 basis over 20, 20 and 10 years,  respectively.  The purchase price was  paid
 with approximately $25,000,000  in cash from  operations and $25,000,000  in
 proceeds from a line of credit with a commercial lender (see Note 5).

 On April  1,  2000, the  Company  acquired  all the  outstanding  shares  of
 BancData Solutions, Inc. ("BDS"), for $5,000,000 in cash. BDS is a  provider
 of a variety  of service  bureau options  to community  banks, primarily  in
 southern California. Their systems are AS/400 based and are already using  a
 JHA core application system. The excess  purchase price over the fair  value
 of net assets acquired of $3,963,000 was allocated to customer relationships
 and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years.

 On June 7,  2000, the Company completed the acquisition of Symitar  Systems,
 Inc. ("Symitar"),  a  provider of  in-house  data processing  solutions  for
 credit unions.  Symitar provides  237 credit  unions throughout  the  United
 States with its comprehensive line of software and services that run on  the
 IBM  RS/6000.   Revenues  from   these  operations   totaled   approximately
 $33,000,000 and $36,000,000  for Symitar's fiscal  years ended December  31,
 1999 and 1998, respectively. The purchase  price of $44,000,000 in cash  was
 paid with proceeds from a line of credit with a commercial lender (see  Note
 5).   The  purchase  price for  Symitar  was  allocated to  the  assets  and
 liabilities acquired based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition
 date,  resulting  in  allocation  to  acquired  customer  relationships   of
 $21,800,000, tradename of $3,900,000,  goodwill of $15,689,000 and  software
 of $2,000,000 which are  being amortized on a  straight-line basis over  20,
 20, 20 and 10 years, respectively.

 The three acquisitions discussed above were accounted for using the purchase
 method. Accordingly, the accompanying  consolidated financial statements  do
 not include any revenues and expenses related to these acquisitions prior to
 their respective closing dates.

 The following unaudited  proforma condensed information  is presented as  if
 the OSG  and Symitar  acquisitions  had occurred  at  the beginning  of  the
 earliest period presented. The pro forma  results for BDS were not  included
 as amounts are not material.

                                                (In Thousands, Except
                                                    Per Share Data)
                                                  Year Ended June 30,
                                                  ---------------------
                                                   2000          1999
                                                  -------       -------
      Revenues                                   $253,106      $274,682
      Income from continuing operations            30,478        33,205
      Net income                                   30,146        32,447

      Diluted Income Per Share:
        Income from continuing operations        $    .36      $    .39
        Net income                               $    .36      $    .38


 NOTE 14: BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

 The Company  is  a leading  provider  of integrated  computer  systems  that
 perform  data  processing    (available  for  in-house  or  service   bureau
 installations) for banks and credit unions.   The Company's operations  were
 classified as one business  segment in the prior  year.  The acquisition  of
 Symitar Systems, Inc. enhanced  the Company's position  in the credit  union
 marketplace.  The  Company's operations have  now been  classified into  two
 business segments: bank systems  and services and  credit union systems  and
 services, with information for 2000 and 1999 reclassified to conform to  the
 current  business  segment   presentation.    The   Company  evaluates   the
 performance of it segments and allocates resources to them based on  various
 factors, including prospects for growth, return on investment and return  on
 revenue.
                                                  (In Thousands)
                                                For the Year Ended
                                                     June 30,
                                       -----------------------------------
                                         2001          2000         1999
                                       -------       -------       -------
 Revenues:

 Bank systems and services            $298,266      $220,655      $191,329

 Credit Union systems and services      47,202         4,645         2,198
                                       -------       -------       -------
 Total                                $345,468      $225,300      $193,527
                                       =======       =======       =======

 Gross Profit:

 Bank systems and services            $138,143      $ 96,062      $ 84,668

 Credit Union systems and services      13,454         2,054         1,616
                                       -------       -------       -------
 Total                                $151,597      $ 98,116      $ 86,284
                                       =======       =======       =======

 The  Company  has  not  disclosed  asset  information  by  segment,  as  the
 information is not produced internally and its preparation is impracticable.


 NOTE 15: SECONDARY OFFERING

 On August  16, 2000,  the  Company completed  a  secondary offering  of  3.0
 million  shares  of  its  common  stock  at  $21.50  per  share  less  a  5%
 underwriters discount and offering  expenses paid by the  Company.  The  net
 proceeds of approximately $60.5 million was  used to retire all  outstanding
 debt under lines of credit as of that date (see Note 5), with the  remaining
 balance available  for  working  capital,  capital  expenditures  and  other
 general corporate purposes.


 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosures

   None.


                                   PART III

 Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

 See  the  information  under  the  captions  "Election  of  Directors"   and
 "Executive Officer and  Significant Employees" in  the Company's  definitive
 Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 11.  Executive Compensation

 See the information under  captions "Executive Compensation",  "Compensation
 Committee Report"  and "Company  Performance"  in the  Company's  definitive
 Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

 See  the  information  under  the  captions  "Stock  Ownership  of   Certain
 Stockholders" and "Election of Directors" in the Company's definitive  Proxy
 Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

 See the information  under the  caption "Certain  Relationships and  Related
 Transactions"  in  the  Company's   definitive  Proxy  Statement  which   is
 incorporated herein by reference.*

 *Incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule 12b-23 and General Instruction
 G(3) to Form 10-K.


                                  PART IV

 Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

 (a)  The following documents are filed as part of this Report:

 The following  Consolidated  Financial Statements  of  the Company  and  its
 subsidiaries and the  Report of Independent  Auditors' thereon appear  under
 Item 8 of this Report:

      -  Independent Auditors' Report.

      -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended June 30, 2001,
         2000 and 1999.

      -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2001 and 2000.

      -  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the
         Years Ended June 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

      -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended June 30,
         2001, 2000 and 1999.

      -  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 The following Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Report
 appear under Item 8 of this Report:

      There are no schedules included because they are not applicable or the
      required information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements
      or Notes thereto.

 Except  as  otherwise  specifically  noted,  the  following  documents   are
 incorporated by reference as exhibits hereto pursuant to Rule 12b-32:

   Exhibit No.  Description
   -----------  -----------
      3.1.1     Certificate of Incorporation, attached as Exhibit 3.1 to the
                Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1, filed November
                17, 1985.

      3.1.2     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation
                attached as Exhibit 4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended December 31, 1987.

      3.1.3     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
                attached as Exhibit 3.1 to the  Company's Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the Year Ended June 30, 1993.

      3.1.4     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
                attached as Exhibit 3.5 to the  Company's Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1997.

      3.1.5     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
                attached as Exhibit 3.6 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1998.

      3.2.1     Amended and Restated Bylaws, attached as Exhibit A to the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter
                ended March 31, 1996.

      10.1      The Company's 1987 Stock Option Plan, as amended as of
                October 27, 1992, attached as Exhibit 19.1 to the Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September
                30, 1992.

      10.2      The Company's Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, as amended
                as of October 26, 1993, attached as Exhibit 19.2 to the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter
                ended September 30, 1993.

      10.3      The Company's 1995 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, attached
                as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the Year Ended June 30, 1996.

      10.4      IBM Remarketer Agreement dated May 21, 1992, attached as
                Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the Year Ended June 30, 1992; renewed for a two year
                term on January 1, 1997.

      10.5      Form of Indemnity Agreement which has been entered into
                as of August 27, 1996, between the Company and each of its
                Directors, attached as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended June 30, 1996.

      10.6      The Company's 1996 Stock Option Plan, attached as Exhibit
                10.9 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                Year Ended June 30, 1997.

      10.7      Agreement and Plan of Merger regarding acquisition of
                Peerless Group,  Inc. dated August 18, 1998, attached as
                Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the year ended June 30, 1998.

      10.11     Line of Credit Agreement dated September 7, 1999, between the
                Company and Commerce Bank, N.A., attached as Exhibit 10.11 to
                the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed September 20,
                1999.

      10.12     Agreement for Sale and Purchase of Assets dated September 1,
                1999, by and among the Company, Open Systems Group, Inc. and
                BancTec, Inc. attached as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's
                current report on Form 8-K filed September 20, 1999.

      10.13     Agreement and Plan of Merger regarding acquisition of Sys-
                Tech, Inc. of Kansas and Big Sky Marketing, Inc. dated June
                1, 2000, attached as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's current
                report on Form 8-K filed June 14, 2000.

      10.14     Stock Purchase Agreement dated May 14, 2000, between the
                Company and the Stockholders of Symitar Systems, Inc.,
                attached as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's current report
                on Form 8-K filed June 19, 2000.

      10.15     Line of Credit Loan Modification Agreement dated June 6,
                2000, between the Company and Commerce Bank, N.A. attached
                as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K
                filed June 19, 2000.

      21.2      A list of the Company's subsidiaries , attached as Exhibit 21
                to Amendment No. 1 to  the Company's Registration Statement
                on Form S-1, filed August 4, 2000.

      23.1      Consent of Independent Auditors' is attached as Exhibit 23.

 (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

      The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of
 the period covered by this report:

      None.

<PAGE>

                                  SIGNATURES

 Pursuant to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the  Securities
 Exchange Act  of 1934,  the Registrant  has duly  caused this  report to  be
 signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this 25th
 day of September, 2001.

                            JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC., Registrant

                            By  /s/ Michael E. Henry
                                --------------------
                                Michael E. Henry
                                Chairman of the Board

 Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
 report has  been signed  below by  the following  persons on  behalf of  the
 registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

 Signature                  Capacity                       Date

 /s/ Michael E. Henry       Chairman of the                September 25, 2001
 Michael E. Henry           Board and Chief
                            Executive Officer
                            and Director

 /s/ Terry W. Thompson      President and                  September 25, 2001
 Terry W. Thompson          Chief Operating
                            Officer

 /s/ John W. Henry          Vice Chairman, Senior          September 25, 2001
 John W. Henry              Vice President and
                            Director

 /s/ Jerry D. Hall          Executive Vice                 September 25, 2001
 Jerry D. Hall              President and
                            Director

 /s/ Kevin D. Williams      Treasurer and                  September 25, 2001
 Kevin D. Williams          Chief Financial Officer
                            (Principal Accounting Officer)

 /s/ James J. Ellis         Director                       September 25, 2001
 James J. Ellis

 /s/ Burton O. George       Director                       September 25, 2001
 Burton O. George

 /s/ George R. Curry        Director                       September 25, 2001
 George R. Curry

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
