<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>jha06q4.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2006
<TEXT>

                                  UNITED STATES
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, D.C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K
   (Mark One)

      [ X ]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006

                                        OR

      [   ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      For the transition period from _______________ to _______________

                            Commission Number 0-14112

                         JACK HENRY AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
              ------------------------------------------------------
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                                    43-1128385
  -------------------------------                      ----------------
  (State or Other Jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
  Incorporation or Organization)                      Identification No.)

                663 Highway 60, P.O. Box 807, Monett, MO 65708
                ----------------------------------------------
                     (Address of Principal Executive Offices)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (417) 235-6652

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

       Title of Each Class        Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
 ------------------------------   -----------------------------------------
 Common Stock ($0.01 par value)                   NASDAQ


      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None

   Indicate  by  check  mark  if  the  Registrant  is a well-known seasoned
   issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
   Yes [ X ]  No [   ]

   Indicate  by  check  mark  if the  Registrant is not  required  to  file
   reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.
   Yes [   ]  No [ X ]

   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has  filed all reports
   required to be filed  by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities Exchange
   Act of 1934 during the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter period
   that the  registrant was  required to  file such reports),  and  (2) has
   been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
   Yes [ X ]  No [   ]

   Indicate by  check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant  to
   Item 405  of Regulation S-K  is not  contained herein, and  will  not be
   contained, to  the best of Registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy
   or information statements incorporated by reference in Part  III of this
   Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]

   Indicate by  check mark whether  the Registrant is  a large  accelerated
   filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.  See definition
   of "accelerated filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2) of the
   Exchange Act.
   Large Accelerated Filer  [ X ]                  Accelerated Filer  [   ]
   Non-Accelerated Filer    [   ]

   Indicate by  check mark whether  the Registrant is  a shell company  (as
   defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act)
   Yes [   ]  No [ X ]

   As of August 18, 2006,  the Registrant had 91,219,608 shares  of  Common
   Stock  outstanding ($0.01  par  value).  On  that  date,  the  aggregate
   market value of  the Common Stock held by  persons other than those  who
   may be deemed affiliates of Registrant was $1,494,716,214  (based on the
   average of the reported high  and  low  sales prices on  NASDAQ on  such
   date).

<PAGE>
                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  Certain sections of the Company's Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders
  and Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy
  Statement"), as described in the footnotes to the Table of Contents below,
  are incorporated by reference into Part II, Item 5 and into Part III of
  this Report.

<PAGE>

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

    PART I                                                    Page Reference

    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS                                               4

    ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS                                          17

    ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS                             20

    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES                                            20

    ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS                                     20

    ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
               SECURITY HOLDERS                                      20


    PART II

    ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY,
               RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
               PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES (1)                    21

    ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA                               22

    ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
               FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         23

    ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
               ABOUT MARKET RISK                                     37

    ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA           38

    ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
               ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE                67

    ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES                               67

    ITEM 9B.   OTHER INFORMATION                                     67


    PART III

    ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
               THE REGISTRANT  (2)                                   68

    ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  (3)                           68

    ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
               AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS (4)    68

    ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS (5)    68

    ITEM 14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES (6)            68


    PART IV

    ITEM 15.   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            68


 (1)  Proxy Statement section entitled "Equity Compensation Plan Information"
 (2)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Election of Directors", "Corporate
      Governance," "Audit Committee Report," "Executive Officers and
      Significant Employees," and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
      Reporting Compliance."
 (3)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Executive Compensation",
      "Compensation Committee Report", "Corporate Governance", and
      "Company Performance."
 (4)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Stock Ownership of Certain
      Stockholders," and "Equity Compensation Plan Information."
 (5)  Proxy Statement section entitled "Certain Relationships and Related
      Transactions."
 (6)  Proxy Statement sections entitled "Audit Committee Report" and
      "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - Audit and Non-Audit
      Fees."

<PAGE>
                                    PART I

 Item 1.  Business

 Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. ("JHA" or the "Company") is a leading provider
 of integrated  computer systems  providing  data processing  and  management
 information to  banks,  credit  unions, other  financial  and  non-financial
 institutions in the United States.  The Company was formed in 1976 and  made
 its initial public  offering in  1985.  Since  formation, JHA  has grown  by
 developing highly  specialized  products  and  services  for  its  financial
 institution customers, acquiring  organizations that complement  and add  to
 the infrastructure of the Company, retaining satisfied customers and  adding
 new customers.

 We offer an integrated suite of data processing system solutions to  improve
 our  customers'  management  of  their  entire  internal/office applications
 and customer/member interaction  processes,  as  well  as  specialized  data
 processing  solutions  to  meet specific  business  needs.  We  believe  our
 solutions enable our customers to provide better service to their  customers
 and compete  more  effectively  against  other  banks,  credit  unions,  and
 alternative financial institutions.  Our customers have two options for  our
 completely integrated suites of products and services. Customers can install
 our comprehensive systems in-house, as  we offer data conversion,  hardware,
 and software installation for  the implementation of our  systems.  We  will
 also perform  outsourcing services  with our  entire suite  of products  and
 services, from complete internal/office processing to fraud protection,  for
 our customers who prefer not to  acquire hardware and software.  Outsourcing
 services are provided through 6 data centers and 23 item-processing  centers
 located across the United States.  To ensure proper product performance  and
 reliability, we offer  continuing customer service,  which provides us  with
 continuing client relationships and recurring revenue.

 Our gross revenue  has grown from  $396.7 million in  fiscal 2002 to  $592.2
 million in fiscal 2006, representing a compound annual growth rate over this
 five-year period of 10%.  Net income  from  continuing operations has  grown
 from $57.1 million in fiscal  2002 to $89.9 million  in fiscal 2006, also  a
 compound annual growth rate of 10%.

 Industry Background

 According to the Automation in Banking 2006 report, United States  financial
 institutions,  including  commercial  banks,  thrifts  and  credit   unions,
 increased spending on hardware, software, services and telecommunications to
 $50.2 billion  in  calendar  2005  from  $40.7  billion  in  calendar  2001,
 representing a compound annual growth rate  of 6%.  In addition, the  report
 indicated there was an increase in  industry spending of 9.5% from  December
 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005.

 The Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation ("FDIC")  reported  there  were
 approximately 9,000 commercial and savings banks in the United States as  of
 December 31, 2005.  Consolidation within the banking  and  savings  services
 industry has resulted in a  2% compound annual decline in the population  of
 commercial and savings banks  from calendar years 2001  to 2005.  Even  with
 the decline in the population, aggregate assets of these banks increased  at
 an annual  compound  rate  of  8%  between  calendar  year  2001  and  2005.
 Comparing calendar  year  2005  to  2004,  new  bank  and  savings  charters
 increased 40%  and  mergers  decreased 2%.  Our  bank systems  and  services
 segment, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenues in fiscal
 2006, is primarily commercial banks with less than $30.0 billion in  assets,
 of which  there were  approximately  8,800 at  December  31, 2005,  and  our
 specialized, non-core  solutions  service  banks  of  all  asset  sizes  and
 charters, including the top 100 banks in the United States and international
 banks.

 Our other market  segment is credit  union systems and  services within  the
 United States.  The  Credit Union National  Association reported there  were
 approximately 9,000 credit unions  in the United States  as of December  31,
 2005.  This segment represented approximately  20% of our total revenues  in
 fiscal 2006.  These  are  primarily  cooperative,  not-for-profit  financial
 institutions organized to promote savings and provide credit and services to
 their members.  Although the number of these credit unions has declined at a
 3% compound annual rate between calendar year 2001 and 2005, their aggregate
 assets have  increased at  a compound  annual growth  rate of  9% to  $694.2
 billion at December 31, 2005.

 Commercial and savings banks and credit unions play an important role in the
 geographic and demographic  communities and with  the customers they  serve.
 Typically, customers and  members of  these financial  institutions rely  on
 them because  of their ability to  provide personalized,  relationship-based
 services while  focusing  on  retail,  commercial  and  business  needs.  We
 believe these core strengths will allow our financial institution  customers
 to effectively  compete  with other  banks,  credit unions  and  alternative
 financial institutions.  In order to succeed and to maintain strong customer
 relationships, we believe these banks and credit unions must:

        *  focus on  excellence in  delivery  to customers/members  of  their
           primary products and service offerings;

        *  sell more  products and  services  to existing  customers  through
           utilization of customer relationship management ("CRM") products;

        *  deploy products  and services  that  enable customers  to  conduct
           their banking transactions  through the channel  of  their choice,
           such as  internet banking  and  bill payment,  electronic  account
           statements, interactive voice  response systems  and  ATM delivery
           channels;

        *  capitalize on deposit  growth opportunities through  technological
           solutions that allow for remote deposit capture at the  merchant's
           place of business;

        *  manage by  using  products  and  services  that  deliver  business
           intelligence assimilated and analyzed on an automated basis;

        *  implement advanced  technologies and  services, such  as  enhanced
           security protection,  imaging for  all transactions  and  platform
           automation;

        *  use advanced  technologies  in back-office  processes  to  improve
           operating efficiency and control costs,  while increasing  service
           and lowering costs to their customers;

        *  introduce   new   revenue   generating   products   and   services
           complementing traditional  banking  services,  such  as  insurance
           products; and

        *  manage risks by implementing  technology that monitors and  tracks
           transactions for fraud and criminal behavior.

 According to Automation in  Banking 2006 and Callahan  &  Associates 2005 in
 calendar 2005  approximately 56%  of all  commercial banks  and 65%  of  all
 credit unions with assets  over $25 million  utilized in-house hardware  and
 software systems to perform  all of their core  systems and data  processing
 functions.  Off-site data processing centers provided system services on  an
 outsourced basis for 44% of all banks and 35%  of all credit unions.  For  a
 number of  years,  we  have been  expanding  our  outsourcing  services  and
 capacity to include all of our core and complementary solution products.

 Internet banking, on-line bill payment, and other services for  individuals,
 plus cash management, Automated Clearing House ("ACH") management and  other
 services for the commercial customers of financial institutions continue  to
 grow rapidly within the industry. Callahan and Associates' 2006 Credit Union
 Technology Survey respondents  indicated that 98%  of credit unions  already
 offer  internet  home  banking,  90% offer on-line bill pay,  and  85% offer
 e-statements.

 According to Callahan  &  Associates  2006  Credit Union  Technology  Survey
 initiated in April 2006 82% of  the respondents stated on-line  multi-factor
 authentication or biometrics technology was a spending priority in 2006.

 Our Solutions

 Historically we have been  a single-source provider  of a comprehensive  and
 flexible  suite  of  integrated  products  and  services  that  address  the
 information and security technology, and data processing needs of  financial
 institutions on various hardware platforms and operating systems.  With  our
 acquisitions over the last  several years we have  expanded our business  to
 also provide  targeted  and  specialized  solutions  that  address  business
 problems for financial  institutions  and  diverse corporate  entities.  Our
 business derives revenues from three primary sources of revenue:

      *  software licenses;

      *  support and service fees which include implementation services; and

      *  hardware sales, which includes all non-software remarketed products.

 We develop  software applications  designed primarily  for use  on  hardware
 supporting  IBM   and   UNIX/NT  operating  systems.  Our  marketed  product
 and  service  offerings  are  centered  on five  core  proprietary  software
 applications, each  comprising  the  core data  processing  and  information
 management  functions  of  a  commercial and savings  bank  or credit union.
 Any of  these core  systems  can be  utilized  either  through  an  in-house
 or outsourced  delivery  method depending  on  the  financial  institution's
 management  style  and  philosophy.  Key  functions  of  each  of  our  core
 software applications include deposits, loans, general ledger,  and customer
 information   file.   Our  software  applications  make  extensive  use   of
 parameters  allowing our customers  to tailor  the software  to their  needs
 without  needing  to  customize  or  program  the  software.   Our  software
 applications are  designed to  provide maximum  flexibility in  meeting  our
 customer data processing  requirements within  a single, integrated  system.
 To complement our  core software  applications,  we offer approximately  100
 integrated complementary products and services for use on an  in-house or an
 outsourced basis by financial institutions.

 The financial  services  industry  today is  highly  competitive,  with  new
 entrants  competing  for  market  share  of  traditional  banking  services,
 including the  formation  of  banking  affiliates  by  insurance  companies,
 brokerage firms  and  even retailers.  We believe  our integrated  solutions
 provide our  customers  with  tools and  strategies  to  increase  revenues,
 contain costs,  and  deliver  premium customer  services.  Specifically  our
 integrated products and services enable them to:

        *  Implement  Advanced  Technologies  with  Full  Functionality.  Our
           comprehensive suites of products and services are designed to meet
           our  customers'  information  technology  needs  through   custom-
           tailored  solutions  using  proprietary  software  products.   Our
           clients can either  perform these functions  themselves  on an in-
           house basis through the implementation of our software systems  or
           contract with us  on an outsourced  basis while  we perform  these
           daily services for them.

        *  Rapidly  Deploy  New  Products  and  Services.  Once  a  financial
           institution has implemented our core software, either in-house  or
           on an outsourced basis, we  can quickly and efficiently  implement
           additional applications and functions.  This allows our  customers
           to rapidly deploy new products and services for their clients  and
           members while generating new  revenue  streams.  We  offer  state-
           of-the-art  solutions  with  the  latest technology  which  allows
           financial  institutions  to   concentrate  on  critical   business
           processes while attending to  the needs of  their  customers.  Our
           products include a full suite of ATM management products, a  suite
           of fraud detection  and prevention products,  a suite of  document
           and check  image products,  ACH  and  remote merchant capture  and
           electronic clearing  services  and  a  fingerprint  authentication
           solution utilizing biometric security.

        *  Focus on Customer Relationships.  Our products and services  allow
           our customers  to  stay  focused  on  their  primary  business  of
           gaining, maintaining  and expanding  their customer  relationships
           while providing the  latest technology in  financial products  and
           services.

        *  Access Outsourcing  Solutions  to  Improve  Operating  Efficiency.
           Customers utilizing our outsourcing solutions benefit from  access
           to all of  our products and  services without  having to  maintain
           personnel to update and  run these systems  and without having  to
           make  large  up-front  capital  expenditures  to  implement  these
           advanced technologies.

        *  Solve Complex Business Operating Needs.  Our customers' businesses
           have become more complex and carry added regulatory and  reporting
           burdens distinct to financial  institutions.  Customers using  our
           unique products specifically developed  to satisfy niche,  complex
           business issues can  contain costs, and  have increased levels  of
           accuracy and provide assurance that the customer is in  compliance
           with regulatory requirements.

        *  Manage  Risk.   We  offer  a range  of  solutions  that  help  our
           customers manage  operational risks,  including disaster  recovery
           services, biometric security, and software designed to detect  and
           react to fraudulent transactions.

 Our Strategy

 Our objective is to grow our revenue and earnings organically,  supplemented
 by strategic acquisitions.  The key components of our business strategy  are
 to:

        *  Provide High  Quality, Value-Added  Products and  Services to  Our
           Clients.  We compete on the basis of providing our customers  with
           the highest-value products and services in the market.  We believe
           we have achieved  a reputation as  a premium  product and  service
           provider.

        *  Continue  to  Expand  Our  Product  and  Service  Offerings.    We
           continually upgrade our core software applications and expand  our
           complementary  product  and  service   offerings  to  respond   to
           technological  advances  and  the  changing  requirements  of  our
           clients.  For  example, we offer  several turn-key solutions  that
           enable  financial  institutions  to  rapidly  deploy sophisticated
           and state-of-the-art  new products  and  services.  Our integrated
           solutions enable  our  customers  to  offer  competitive  services
           relative to larger banks  and alternative financial  institutions.
           We intend  to  continue  to expand  Internet  solutions,  security
           solutions, exception  management  reporting,  document  management
           solutions and other products and services.

        *  Expand Our Existing Customer Relationships.   We seek to  increase
           the information technology and  security products and services  we
           provide to those customers that do  not utilize our full range  of
           products  and  services.  In this  way, we  are able  to  increase
           revenues from current customers with minimal additional sales  and
           marketing expenses.

        *  Extend Our Markets.  We now market and sell products and  services
           to virtually  any financial  institution regardless  of what  core
           processing  solution  is   utilized,  effectively  extending   our
           targeted market for selected complementary products to over 16,000
           additional financial institutions in the United States, as well as
           additional vertical industries.

        *  Adopt  Open  Integration  Standards.   We   are  increasing    our
           utilization of  more open  integration standards  through  Service
           Oriented  Architecture  and  Web  Services  through  our  jXchange
           integration tools enabling increased interoperability between  our
           products and services and those of third parties.

        *  Expand  Our  Customer  Base.   We  seek   to  establish  long-term
           relationships with new customers  through our sales and  marketing
           efforts and selected acquisitions.  As  of June 30, 2006, we  have
           over 8,700 customers, an  increase of 211%  from fiscal 2001  with
           2,800 customers.

        *  Build Recurring Revenue.  We  enter into contracts with  customers
           to provide services that meet their ongoing information technology
           needs.   We  offer  ongoing  software  support  for  our  in-house
           customers.  Additionally,  we  provide  data  processing  for  our
           outsourcing customers and ATM and debit card transaction switching
           services,  both on contracts that typically extend for periods  of
           five to ten years.

        *  Maximize Economies of Scale.  We strive to develop and maintain  a
           sufficiently large  client  base  to create  economies  of  scale,
           enabling us to provide value-priced  products and services to  our
           clients while expanding our operating margins.

        *  Attract and Retain Capable Employees.   We believe attracting  and
           retaining high-quality  employees  is essential to  our  continued
           growth and success.  Our corporate culture focuses on the needs of
           employees; a strategy which has continued since our inception.

 Our Acquisitions

 To complement  and  accelerate  our internal  growth,  we  have  selectively
 acquired companies that provide us with one or more of the following:

        *  products and services to complement our existing offerings;

        *  new customers;

        *  entry into new markets within financial services as well as  other
           vertical markets; and/or

        *  additional outsourcing capabilities.

 When evaluating acquisition opportunities, we focus on companies with highly
 demanded products and/or  services, a  strong employee  base and  management
 team and excellent customer relationships.  Since the start of fiscal  2002,
 we have completed the following acquisitions:

  Fiscal
   Year   Company or Product Name         Products and Services
   ----   -----------------------         ---------------------
   2006   ProfitStar                      Asset/Liability Management,
                                          Budgeting and Profitability
                                          Solutions
   2005   Tangent Analytics               Business Intelligence Solutions
   2005   Stratika                        Profitability Solutions
   2005   Synergy, Inc.                   Document Imaging
   2005   TWS, Inc.                       ATM Image/ Item Processing
   2005   Optinfo, Inc.                   Enterprise Exception Management
   2005   Verinex Technologies            Biometric Security Solutions
   2005   Select Payment Processing       Payment Processing Solutions
   2005   Banc Insurance Services         Insurance Agency Outsourcing
   2004   Call Report Analyzer, Y9        Regulatory Reporting
   2004   e-ClassicSystems, Inc.          Software products to manage ATM
                                          networks
   2004   PowerPay.ach, .rck, and .arc    Suite of Automated Clearing House
                                          products
   2004   Yellow Hammer Software, Inc.    Fraud Protection for financial
                                          institutions
   2003   National Bancorp Data           Item Processing services
          Services, LLC
   2003   Credit Union Solutions, Inc.    Data processing systems and
                                          services for smaller credit unions
   2002   Transcend Systems Group         Customer Relationship Management
                                          software and related services
   2002   System Legacy Solutions         Image data conversion systems


 Our Products and Services

 Changing  technologies,  business  practices  and  financial  products  have
 resulted in issues  of compatibility, scalability  and increased  complexity
 for  the  hardware  and  software  used  in many financial institutions.  We
 have responded  to these issues  by  developing  a fully integrated suite of
 products and services  consisting  of core software systems,  hardware,  and
 complementary products and services.

 We provide our full range of products and services to financial institutions
 on either an in-house or outsourced basis. For those customers who prefer to
 purchase systems for their  financial institution, we  offer to contract  to
 sell  computer  hardware  with  the  licenses  for  core  and  complementary
 software.   We  also  offer   to  contract  to  provide  installation,  data
 conversion,  training,  ongoing  support,  and  other  services  to   assist
 customers in management of operation efficiencies.

 We also  offer  our full  suite  of software  products  and services  on  an
 outsourced basis to customers who do  not wish to maintain, update, and  run
 these systems or to  make large up-front  capital expenditures to  implement
 these  advanced  technologies.  Our  principal  outsourcing service  is  the
 delivery of mission-critical data processing services using our data centers
 located  within  the United  States.  We  provide our  outsourcing  services
 through an extensive national data and service center network, comprised  of
 6 data centers and 23 item-processing centers.  We monitor and maintain  our
 network on a seven-day, 24-hour basis.  Customers typically pay monthly fees
 on service contracts of up to 5 years for these services.

 While it is  our goal to  provide the full  suite of  solutions a  financial
 institution may  require, we  recognize the  reality that  a number  of  our
 clients will  wish to  deploy some  technology solutions  provided by  other
 companies.  Accordingly, we have developed enhanced integration capabilities
 with third party solutions.  This  is particularly important as we  continue
 to expand  our presence  in the  mid-tier banking  space, defined  as  banks
 ranging from $1.0 to $30.0 billion in assets.

 Information regarding  the  classification  of our  business  into  separate
 segments serving the  banking and credit  union industries is  set forth  in
 Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see item 8 below).

 Hardware Systems

 Our software operates  on a variety  of hardware systems.  We  have  entered
 into remarketing  agreements with  IBM Corporation,  Avnet, Inc.  and  other
 hardware providers which  allow us to  purchase hardware at  a discount  and
 sell (remarket) it  to our customers.  We currently  sell  the IBM  System i
 ("iSeries"),  System p ("pSeries")  and  xSeries servers; IBM  workstations;
 Dell servers and workstations; NCR, BancTec and Unisys check transports; and
 a variety of other devices that complement our software solutions.

 We have a long-term strategic relationship  with IBM, dating to the  initial
 design of our first core software applications 30 years ago.  In addition to
 our remarketing agreement with IBM, which  we regularly renew, we have  been
 named a "Premier Business Partner'' of IBM for the last fourteen consecutive
 years.  Our relationship with IBM provides us with a substantial and ongoing
 source of revenue.

 Biometrics is one of the latest  technologies in security for financial  and
 non-financial  institutions.  We offer  a  fingerprint  scanner  along  with
 flexible, state-of-the-art software components  which provide the  framework
 for the complete suite of applications.

 In continuing our  belief of being  a 'complete solution',  we also offer  a
 full line of financial institution forms required for day-to-day operations,
 year-end tax forms, plus office and operating supplies for their equipment.

 Core Software Applications

 Each of  our  core software  systems  consists of  several  fully-integrated
 application modules,  such  as  deposits, loans,  general  ledger,  and  the
 customer information file, which is  a centralized file containing  customer
 data  for  all  applications.  While  our  core software is fully functional
 off the shelf, we  can  custom-tailor  these  modules  utilizing  parameters
 determined by our customers.  The applications can  be connected to  a  wide
 variety of  peripheral  hardware  devices used  in  financial  institutions'
 operations.  Our software  is  designed  to provide  maximum flexibility  in
 meeting our customers' data processing  requirements within a single  system
 to minimize data entry and improve operational efficiencies.

 For a customer who  chooses to acquire  in-house capabilities, we  generally
 license our core system under a  standard license agreement, which  provides
 the customer with a fully paid,  nonexclusive, nontransferable right to  use
 the software on a single computer and at  a single location.  The same  core
 software system can be delivered on an outsourced basis as well.

 Our core software applications are differentiated broadly by customer  size,
 scalability, functionality,  customer  competitive  environment  and,  to  a
 lesser extent, cost.  Our core applications include:

 Bank Systems and Services Segment

        *  Silverlake System[R] operates on the IBM System iSeries processing
           platform and is used primarily by banks with total assets  ranging
           from $500  million to  $30.0 billion;  however, banks  of  smaller
           size, including  progressive de  novo  banks, are  also  selecting
           Silverlake Systems;

        *  CIF  20/20[R]  operates  on  the  IBM  System  iSeries  processing
           platform and is primarily  used by and  targeted to banks  ranging
           from de novo up to $1.0 billion in assets;

        *  Core Director[R]  operates on  the Windows  Server-based  platform
           employing client/server technology  and is primarily  used by  and
           targeted to  banks ranging  from  de novo up  to $1.0  billion  in
           assets.

 Credit Union Systems and Services Segment

        *  Episys[R] operates on the  IBM System pSeries processing  platform
           with a UNIX/NT operating  system and is  used primarily by  credit
           unions with total assets greater than $50.0 million.  According to
           Callahan and Associates 2006 Credit Union Directory, our Episys[R]
           core product is the most widely installed data processing solution
           among credit unions  with assets  exceeding $25.0  million in  the
           United States.

        *  Cruise[R]  operates  on  the   IBM  xSeries  platform,   utilizing
           Microsoft SQL Server  with a 100%  Windows[R] interface,  allowing
           all data available with 'point and  click' simplicity.  Cruise  is
           used primarily  by credit  unions with  total assets  under  $50.0
           million.

 Complementary Products and Services

 In years past  our strategy has  been focused on  two fronts; acquiring  new
 core banking and credit union clients, and selling additional  complementary
 products and services to those banks  and credit unions that were using  our
 core solutions.  We did not  generally offer our complementary products  and
 services to banks  or credit  unions that  were not  using one  of our  core
 processing solutions.  With our acquisitions  in recent  years,  we are  now
 marketing and selling selected complementary products and solutions  through
 our ProfitStars brand to  banks and credit unions  regardless of which  core
 processing solution the financial institutions are using.  Thus, we now have
 essentially two categories of complementary products: 1) those that we offer
 only to those banks  or credit unions  that use one  of our core  processing
 solutions,  and  2)  those  that  we  offer  to  any  financial  institution
 regardless of core provider.

 We offer  the banks  and  credit unions  using  Jack Henry  core  processing
 systems approximately 100 complementary products  or services. We have  also
 acquired a number of complementary products  and services that are  marketed
 and sold through our ProfitStars brand to diverse financial institutions and
 other businesses that do not have Jack Henry core processing systems.  These
 products  and  services have been developed  and  designed  to assist banks,
 credit unions, and other businesses accomplish specific business strategies.
 Our  complementary  products  and  services  are  categorized  into  product
 families  by  particular  business  strategy  needs.  Some  of  the  product
 families and a sample  of some of the  solutions offered within each  family
 are as follows:

 Business Intelligence

        *  Synapsys[R] is an enterprise-wide relationship management solution
           for both  retail and  commercial customers  that integrates  sales
           management,  customer   profiling,   automated   sales   tracking,
           profitability assessment, lead  generation, and referral  tracking
           capabilities.

        *  Synapsys[R] MCIF Wizard is the marketing central information  file
           and data mining solution that empowers customers to develop highly
           targeted marketing and  cross-selling campaigns and  automatically
           track the results.

        *  Intelligence  Warehouse  /  Intelligence  Manager  is  a  business
           intelligence and analytics solution  for our Silverlake  customers
           designed to capture data from any number of sources and store  all
           data in  one data  warehouse.  This  Intelligence  Warehouse  then
           serves as  the foundation  for  developing business  insights,  to
           report on  user  defined  performance and  event  driven  metrics.
           These insights are delivered  to the Intelligence Manager  desktop
           in the form of user defined interactive "dashboards" to give users
           an "at a glance" view  of activities and performance  measurements
           within their financial institution.

        *  ARGOKeys[R]  is  the  ARGO  Data  Resource  Corporation/JHA  joint
           solution for our  Silverlake customers that  provide branch  sales
           and automation solutions, including a deposit platform, a  lending
           platform  with  an  advanced  automated  decision  module,  and  a
           complete CRM solution, all of which are fully integrated with  our
           core and teller systems.

        *  Relationship  Profitability  Management[TM]  provides   enterprise
           profitability  solutions   for   banks   and  credit  unions.  RPM
           provides detailed profitability measurement systems for customized
           product,  account,  customer,  relationship, branch, regional, and
           organizational profitability measurements.

        *  PROFITability[R] is  the  cost  accounting  analysis  system  that
           supports organizational and  product profitability analysis.  True
           organizational profitability of a branch, department or region can
           be easily determined,  with the capabilities  to review  allocated
           expenses  and  generate  accurate   adjusted  earnings  for   each
           organization.  Product profitability  is  generated  by  comparing
           individual  products  from  a  post-allocated  perspective,  which
           allows banks  to accurately  determine the  profitability of  each
           product and compare it to other products.

        *  PROFITstar ALM/Budgeting  is  the asset/liability  management  and
           budgeting system that provides the robust functionality to perform
           sophisticated modeling; ad hoc balance sheet and income statements
           with multiple interest  rate scenarios.   This system also  allows
           institutions to track "what-if" scenarios with strategic  monitors
           that automatically  create audit  trails; analyze  market risk  in
           response to  regulatory requirements  and determine  the  accurate
           value  for FAS107 reporting;  and  create detailed,  summary,  and
           variance budget reports.

        *  Business  Analytics[TM]  is  a  Web-based  business   intelligence
           framework  which  integrates   enterprise-wide  systems  to   pull
           information together from many  sources and put  it into a  usable
           format for strategic decision reporting through the use of a  dash
           board.

        *  eEMS[TM] is an enterprise  risk management solution consisting  of
           four integrated modules. nBalance[R]  is a real-time,  rules-based
           data  reconciliation  module.  Exception  Manager  automates   the
           research  and  resolution  of  data  discrepancies.  Case  Manager
           automates the workflow to resolve and repair exceptions.  Our Risk
           and Control Console provides an analytic tool  to deliver business
           intelligence about operational risk.

 Retail Delivery

        *  InTouch Voice Response[R] is  a fully-automated interactive  voice
           response  system  for  24-hour  telephone-based  customer  account
           management.

        *  OnTarget[TM] is an integrated deposit platform, lending  platform,
           and teller solution for our Core Director and Banker II  customers
           through a partnering alliance with ARGO.

        *  Streamline Platform  Automation[R]  is an  automated  new  account
           origination and documentation preparation solution that integrates
           new  customer   data,   including  signature   cards,   disclosure
           statements,  and  loan applications  into  the core customer  data
           files on a real-time basis for our iSeries customers.

        *  Vertex Teller Automation System[TM] is an online teller automation
           system  that  enables   tellers  to   process  transactions   more
           efficiently and with greater accuracy.

        *  Insurance Agency  Outsourcing[TM] provides  a complete  outsourced
           insurance agency custom-branded for a financial institution.

 Business Banking

        *  NetTeller[R] Cash  Management solution  offers commercial  banking
           customers flexibility  and online  access to  their accounts  with
           ACH, wire transfer, reporting and account management capabilities.

        *  Mutual Fund Sweep  is a deposit  management solution that  enables
           banks to  transfer  commercial  customers'  excess  deposits  into
           interest bearing overnight mutual fund investments.

        *  Remote Deposit Capture is a  web-based image capture, storage  and
           processing solution which  enables corporations  and merchants  to
           electronically convert paper checks of  all types into ACH  and/or
           Check 21 items.

        *  ACH  Check  Conversion  is  a  web-enabled  service  that   allows
           businesses to electronically convert paper checks they receive  in
           the mail, lockbox or in a drop box into ACH items.

        *  Point of  Purchase  Check  Conversion  ("POP")  is  a  web-enabled
           software solution that allows a business to electronically convert
           paper checks received in-person into ACH items.

        *  Represented Check ("RCK")  is web-enabled software  that allows  a
           financial institution  to electronically  re-present paper  checks
           that  have  been  returned  to  their  commercial  customers   for
           insufficient funds.

        *  Internet Checks  ("WEB") is  web-enabled  software that  allows  a
           business to  accept paper  checks on  their Internet  website  and
           electronically convert the payments into ACH items.

        *  Telephone Checks  ("TEL") is  web-enabled software  that allows  a
           business  to   accept  paper   checks  over   the  telephone   and
           electronically convert the payments into ACH items.

        *  Preauthorized Payment and Deposit ("PPD") is web-enabled  software
           that allows a business to process recurring check payments as  ACH
           items.

        *  Cash Concentration or Disbursement ("CCD") is web-enabled software
           that allows  a  business to  collect  and distribute  business  to
           business payments as ACH items.

 Internet Banking

        *  NetTeller[R] Online Banking[TM] is an Internet-based home  banking
           system that  provides secure,  real-time account  information  and
           transaction capabilities for individual commercial customers.

        *  NetTeller[R]  MemberConnect  Web[TM]  is  an  Internet-based  home
           banking system that provides secure, real-time account information
           and transaction capabilities for credit union members.

        *  NetTeller[R] BillPay[TM]  is  an  on-line bill  pay  solution  for
           financial  institutions  which  allows  their  customers  to  make
           payments to any payee in North America.

        *  DirectLine[R] OFX allows NetTeller[R] customers to offer a  direct
           connect service utilizing personal financial management tools  for
           their customers.

        *  eStatements is a  suite of  products which  include an  electronic
           document generation and delivery system for statements and notices
           to both bank and credit union customers.

 Electronic Funds Transfer

        *  ATM Manager Pro[R] is  a suite of  software modules that  provides
           reporting and operational analysis tools to ATM owners.

        *  PassPort.atm[TM] can drive  and monitor all  types of lease  lines
           and dial-up  ATM's,  along  with the  switch  processing  services
           connecting  financial  institutions   to  regional  and   national
           networks.

        *  PassPort.dc[TM] allows financial  institutions to issue,  support,
           and manage signature based Visa[R] Check or MasterMoney[TM]  debit
           cards worldwide.

        *  PassPort.pro[TM] provides  for online  authorization, driving  and
           monitoring of  a  financial institution's  own  network of  up  to
           hundreds of ATMs.

        *  ImageCenter ATM is software that automates ATM deposits with image
           capture and  processing, courier  tracking and  monitoring,  fraud
           detection and prevention, and balancing.

 Asset Management and Protection

        *  PROFITstar   ALM/Budgeting[TM]   provides    tools   that    allow
           institutions to  monitor and  plan asset/liability  exposures  and
           general budgets.  Multiple scenarios can be created and  compared,
           with built-in strategic monitors and automated audit trails.

        *  Biodentify[R] is a  biometric fingerprint  security solution  that
           uses physical  biometrics which  are unique  to every  individual.
           The  system  provides   wizard-based  registration,   single-touch
           identification, plus  event logging  for auditing  and  regulatory
           compliance.

        *  Centurion  Disaster  Recovery[R]  provides  multi-tiered  disaster
           recovery protection, including comprehensive disaster planning and
           procedures.

        *  Fraud Detective[TM] is  a suite of  software modules that  enables
           banks  and  credit  unions  to  detect  and  react  to  suspicious
           transaction_based  fraud.   The  system   also  alerts   financial
           institutions  of  other   fraudulent  activity,   such  as   money
           laundering and kiting.

        *  Call Report  Analyzer[TM] is  Windows-based software  designed  to
           allow banks to accurately and efficiently file regulatory  reports
           required by the FDIC.

        *  Call Report Y-9 Report Analyzer[TM] allows banks to electronically
           file other regulatory reports ("Y-9C, Y-9LP, Y-11S, or Y-9SP")

        *  TimeTrack Payroll System[TM] is  an integrated payroll  accounting
           and human resources software system.

        *  Demand Account  Reclassification  calculates  appropriate  reserve
           requirements  based   upon   reclassification   opportunities   of
           deposited funds.

 Item and Document Imaging

        *  4|sight[TM] item image solution is  our new generation of  imaging
           products, which allows our customers  to create and store  digital
           check images for inclusion  in monthly statements, and  facilitate
           their customer support services.

        *  ImageCenter Check[TM]  is a  turnkey image-based  item  processing
           platform designed for the unique requirements of credit unions.

        *  SuperIMAGE[R] is  a  check  image system  that  provides  enhanced
           integration, automation,  and dependability  in item  imaging  for
           high-volume environments.

        *  Synergy Intelligent  Document Imaging[TM]  is a  suite of  product
           modules for  companies  of  all  sizes  for  intelligent  document
           imaging by capturing, archiving and  retrieval of paper based  and
           electronic documents.

        *  Check 21 solutions  are a series  of products  enabling banks  and
           credit unions to capture, package and send electronic check  image
           cash letters for  clearing transit items  instead of sending  cash
           letters of the actual physical checks for clearing.

        *  ImageCenter ATM  Deposit Management[TM]  is software  designed  to
           capture images of deposited items at the ATM and route the  images
           to the processing center for image clearing.

 Professional Services and Education

        *  FormSmart[R] provides day-to-day  financial institution  operating
           forms, year-end tax forms and other printing and office supplies.

        *  Intellix[TM] is  a consulting  service specifically  for our  bank
           system and services  segment.  This  service assists customers  to
           fully utilize their core software products by developing  workflow
           processes  and  re-engineering  processes  to  capitalize  on  the
           capabilities provided within our core software.

        *  Know-It-All Education[TM] offers  multiple educational classes  on
           our products and services through various formats, including self-
           paced electronic modules, internet  classes with instructors,  on-
           site  training, and classes at numerous Jack Henry facilities.

        *  Matrix  Network  Services[R]  provides  network design, implement-
           ation,  security  and  related  consulting  services  to financial
           institutions.

 Implementation and Training

 Although  not  a  requirement,  the  majority  of  our  customers   contract
 separately with us  for implementation and  training services in  connection
 with  their  purchase  of  in-house  systems.  The  complete  implementation
 process  of  a  core  system  typically  includes  planning,  design,   data
 conversion, and testing.  At the  culmination  of this  process, one of  our
 implementation  teams  travels  to  our  customer's  facilities   to  ensure
 the smooth  transfer  of  data  to the  new  system.  Separate  charges  for
 implementation fees are  billed to our  customers on either  a fixed fee  or
 hourly charge model depending  on the system.  Implementation  and  training
 services are also provided in connection with new outsourcing customers, and
 are billed separately at the time of implementation.

 Both in connection  with implementation  of new  systems and  on an  ongoing
 basis, we provide extensive  training services  and  programs related to our
 products  and  services.  Training  is  provided in  our  regional  training
 centers, at meetings and conferences, onsite at our customers' locations, or
 online with JHA  Webex. Training can  be customized to  meet our  customers'
 requirements.  The large majority of our customers acquire training services
 from us, both to improve their  employees' proficiency and productivity  and
 to  make full use of the  complete functionality of our systems.  Generally,
 training services  are  paid  for  on  an  hourly  basis  or  as  an  annual
 subscription, representing blocks of training time  that can be used by  our
 customers in a flexible fashion.

 Support and Services

 Following the implementation of our integrated software at a customer  site,
 we provide  ongoing software  support services  to assist  our customers  in
 operating the systems.  We also offer support services for hardware systems,
 primarily through  our hardware  suppliers,  providing  customers  who  have
 contracted  for  this  service  with  "one-call"   system  support  covering
 hardware and software applications.

 Support is provided  through a 24-hour  telephone service  available to  our
 customers seven days a week.  Our experienced support staff can resolve most
 questions and problems  quickly.  For  more complicated  issues, our  staff,
 with our customers' permission and assistance, can log on to our  customers'
 systems  remotely.  We  maintain  our  customers' software  largely  through
 releases  which   contain   enhancements   and   additional   features   and
 functionality.  Updates  are  issued  also  when  required  by  changes   in
 applicable laws and regulations.  We provide support services on all of  our
 core systems as well  as our complementary  software products regardless  of
 whether it is delivered in-house or outsourced.

 In 2005, we introduced expanded company-wide support tools and  capabilities
 through a suite of customer relationship management products from PeopleSoft
 which we refer to internally as  jSource.  jSource provides the ability  for
 customers to  utilize the  internet to  initiate support  services,  request
 customization and to  track the status  of any  customer initiated  projects
 online.  The system  is designed to provide  us with comprehensive views  of
 our customers and  the ability to  view events, sales  activity or  service-
 related issues that may transpire with each customer.  jSource was initially
 deployed for customer service and our sales departments and will be expanded
 into the marketing  aspects of  our business throughout  the next  12 to  18
 months.

 Nearly all of our  in-house customers contract  for annual support  services
 from us.  These services are a significant source of recurring revenue,  and
 are  contracted  for  on  an  annual  basis  and  are  typically  priced  at
 approximately 18 to 20%  of the particular  software product's license  fee.
 These fees generally increase as our customers' asset base increases and  as
 they increase  the level  of functionality  of  their system  by  purchasing
 additional complementary  products.  Software  support  fees  are  generally
 billed during June and are paid in advance for the entire fiscal year,  with
 pro-ration for new contracts that start during the year at the time of final
 conversion.  Hardware support fees are  also paid in advance for the  entire
 contract  period  that  ranges  from  one  to  five  years.  Most  contracts
 automatically renew  annually  unless our  customer  or we  give  notice  of
 termination  at least  60  days  prior to  expiration.  Identical support is
 provided to our outsourced customers by  the same support personnel, but  is
 included as part  of their  overall monthly  fees and  therefore not  billed
 separately.

 Research and Development

 We devote significant effort  and expense to  develop new software,  service
 products  and  continually  upgrade  and  enhance  our  existing  offerings.
 Typically, we  upgrade  our  core software  applications  and  complementary
 products once per year.  We believe our research and development efforts are
 highly efficient because  of the extensive  experience of  our research  and
 development staff and  because our product  development is highly  customer-
 driven.  Through  our regular  contact  with  customers  through  formalized
 product Focus Groups, Change Control Boards, structured strategic  meetings,
 at annual user group  meetings, sales contacts  and our ongoing  maintenance
 services, our customers inform  us of the  new products and  functionalities
 they desire.  Research and development  expenses for fiscal 2006, 2005,  and
 2004 were $31.9 million, $27.7 million, and $23.7 million, respectively.

 Sales and Marketing

 Our primary markets consist of commercial banks and credit unions with  some
 products being utilized in other verticals and sold through our sales  staff
 or channel partners.

 Dedicated sales  forces, inside  sales teams,  and technical  sales  support
 teams conduct  our  sales efforts  for  our  two market  segments,  and  are
 overseen by regional  sales managers.  Our dedicated  sales  executives  are
 responsible for sales  activities focused on  acquiring new core  customers.
 Our account executives nurture long-term relationships with our client  base
 and cross sell  our many  complementary  products and services.  Our  inside
 sales force  markets specific  complementary products  and services  to  our
 existing customers.  We  also have a dedicated  sales force responsible  for
 new  customers  for  our  acquired  businesses  targeted  outside  our  core
 customer base.  All sales force personnel have responsibility for a specific
 territory.  The sales support teams  write business proposals and  contracts
 and prepare responses  to request-for-proposals regarding  our software  and
 hardware solutions.  All  of our sales professionals  receive a base  salary
 and performance-based commission compensation.

 In 2006  we introduced  a new  branding strategy  for many  of our  recently
 acquired  companies.  Today  we  market  our  products  and  solutions under
 three  primary brands:  Jack Henry  &  Associates,  Symitar  and our  newest
 brand, ProfitStars.  Each brand  is  focused on  well  defined markets  with
 well defined solutions.  Jack  Henry  &  Associates markets  and  sells core
 processing solutions and integrated complementary products to US  commercial
 banks with  assets up  to  $30.0 billion.  Symitar  markets and  sells  core
 processing solutions  and integrated  complementary  products to  US  credit
 unions.  Our  newest  brand,  ProfitStars,  markets  and  sells  specialized
 solutions to  US  banks and  credit  unions of  all  sizes, as  well  as  to
 international financial institutions and other diverse businesses.

 With the development of ProfitStars, we have assimilated many of our  recent
 acquisitions into one common brand, creating an opportunity to increase  the
 awareness of  this  single  brand  as  opposed  to  promoting  each  of  the
 acquisitions separately.  This also provides  us the opportunity to  enhance
 cross sales  of additional  ProfitStars  solutions to  existing  ProfitStars
 clients.  The ProfitStars solutions can be sold to any bank or credit  union
 regardless of core system, asset size or charter, as well as to our existing
 Jack Henry & Associates and Symitar clients.

 Our marketing efforts consist of sponsorship and attendance at trade  shows,
 e-mail newsletters, print media advertisement placements, telemarketing, and
 national and regional  marketing campaigns.  We  also conduct  a  number  of
 national user group  meetings each year,  which enable us  to keep in  close
 contact with  our customers  and demonstrate  new products  and services  to
 them.

 We continue  to sell  and support  selected products  and solutions  in  the
 Caribbean, and now have approximately 40  installations in Europe and  South
 America as  a  result of our  recent acquisitions.  Our international  sales
 have accounted for less than 1% of our  total revenues in each of the  three
 years ended June 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004.

 Backlog

 Our backlog consists of contracted in-house products and services (prior  to
 delivery) and  the remaining  portion of  outsourcing contracts,  which  are
 typically for five-year  periods, and approximately  represents the  minimum
 guaranteed payments over the remainder of the contract period.  Our  backlog
 at June 30, 2006  was $66.4 million for  in-house products and services  and
 $155.6 million  for outsourcing  services, with  a total  backlog of  $222.0
 million.  Of the  $155.6  million amount  of  the  backlog  for  outsourcing
 service at June 30, 2006, approximately $114.3 million is not expected to be
 realized during  fiscal 2007  due to  the long-term  nature of  many of  our
 outsourcing service contracts.  Backlog at  June 30, 2005 was $64.0  million
 for in-house  products  and  services and  $135.1  million  for  outsourcing
 services, with a total backlog of  $199.1 million.  Our in-house backlog  is
 subject to seasonal variations and can fluctuate quarterly. Our  outsourcing
 backlog continues to experience solid  growth with new contracting  activity
 and as we recognize revenue throughout  the coming fiscal year, the  backlog
 is expected  to  remain constant  due  to  the revenue  surpassing  the  new
 contracting activity.

 Competition

 The  market  for  companies  providing  technology  solutions  to  financial
 institutions is competitive, and we expect continued strong competition from
 both existing  competitors and  companies entering  our existing  or  future
 markets.  Some of our current  competitors have longer operating  histories,
 larger customer  bases,  and  greater  financial  resources.  The  principal
 competitive  factors  affecting   the  market  for   our  services   include
 comprehensiveness  of   the   applications,  features   and   functionality,
 flexibility and  ease of  use, customer  support, references  from  existing
 customers and price.  We compete  with large vendors that offer  transaction
 processing  products  and  services  to  financial  institutions,  including
 Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., Fiserv, Inc., Open  Solutions,
 Inc., and Metavante  (a subsidiary of  Marshall and  Isley Corporation).  In
 addition, we  compete with  a number  of providers  that offer  one or  more
 specialized products or services.  There has been significant  consolidation
 over the last decade among providers of information technology products  and
 services to financial institutions, and  we believe this consolidation  will
 continue in the future.

 Intellectual Property, Patents, and Trademarks

 Although we believe that  our success depends  upon our technical  expertise
 more than  on our  proprietary rights,  our future  success and  ability  to
 compete depends in part upon our proprietary technology.  We have registered
 or filed applications for our primary trademarks.  Most of our technology is
 not patented.  Instead, we rely  on a combination of contractual rights  and
 copyrights, trademarks  and  trade  secrets to  establish  and  protect  our
 proprietary technology.  We generally enter into confidentiality  agreements
 with  our  employees,  consultants,  resellers,  customers,  and   potential
 customers.  We restrict  access to and distribution  of our source code  and
 further limit  the  disclosure and  use  of other  proprietary  information.
 Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized  parties
 may attempt to copy or otherwise  obtain or use our products or  technology.
 We  cannot   be   certain  that  the  steps  taken  by  us  in  this  regard
 will be adequate to prevent misappropriation  of  our  technology,  or  that
 our  competitors  will  not  independently  develop  technologies  that  are
 substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.

 Government Regulation

 The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex  federal
 and state regulation.  Our current and prospective customers, which  consist
 of financial  institutions  such  as  community/regional  banks  and  credit
 unions, operate  in  markets  that are  subject  to  substantial  regulatory
 oversight and supervision.  We  must ensure our  products and services  work
 within the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to  our
 customers, including but not  limited to those  under the federal  truth-in-
 lending and  truth-in-savings  rules,  the  Privacy  of  Consumer  Financial
 Information regulations, usury laws, the  Equal Credit Opportunity Act,  the
 Fair Housing  Act,  the  Electronic Funds  Transfer  Act,  the  Fair  Credit
 Reporting Act, the Bank Secrecy Act,  the USA Patriot Act, the  Gramm-Leach-
 Bliley Act,  and the  Community  Reinvestment  Act.  The compliance  of  our
 products and  services  with these  requirements  depends on  a  variety  of
 factors including the particular  functionality, the interactive design  and
 the classification  of  customers, and  the  manner in  which  the  customer
 utilizes the  system.  Our customers  must  assess  and  determine  what  is
 required of them under these regulations and they contract with us to assist
 them, through our products and services in meeting their  regulatory  needs.
 It is not possible to predict the impact any of these regulations could have
 on our business in the future.

 We are not chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, the Board
 of Governors  of  the Federal  Reserve  System,  the National  Credit  Union
 Administration or other federal or state agencies that regulate or supervise
 depository institutions.  The services provided by our OutLink Data  Centers
 are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institution  Examination
 Council regulators under the  Bank Service Company  Act.  On occasion  these
 services are also subject to examination by state banking authorities.

 We provide outsourced  data and item  processing through our  geographically
 dispersed OutLink Data  Centers, electronic  transaction processing  through
 PassPort  ATM  and  Select  Payment,  Internet  banking  through   NetTeller
 and  MemberConnect  online banking,  and  bank  business  recovery  services
 through Centurion Disaster Recovery.  As a  service  provider  to  financial
 institutions,  our   operations   are  governed  by   the  same   regulatory
 requirements as those imposed on financial institutions.  We are subject  to
 periodic  review  by  Federal  Financial  Institution  Examination   Council
 regulators who have broad supervisory  authority to remedy any  shortcomings
 identified in such reviews.

 Employees

 As of June 30, 2006  and  2005, we had 3,310 and 2,989 full time  employees,
 respectively.  Of our  employees,  approximately  660  are employed  in  the
 credit union segment  of our business,  with the remainder  employed in  the
 bank business segment or in general and administrative functions that  serve
 both segments.  Our employees  are  not covered by  a collective  bargaining
 agreement and there have been no labor-related work stoppages.  We  consider
 our relationship with our employees to be good.

 Available Information

 Our   internet   website   is   easily   accessible   to   the   public   at
 www.jackhenry.com.  Our key corporate governance  documents and our Code  of
 Conduct addressing matters of business ethics are available in the "Investor
 Relations" portion of the website, together with archives of press  releases
 and other materials.  Our Annual  Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports  on
 Form 10-Q, Current  Reports on Form  8-K, and other  filings and  amendments
 thereto that we make with the  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  (the
 "SEC") are available  free of charge  on the website  as soon as  reasonably
 practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC.


 Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 The Company's business  and the results  of its operations  are affected  by
 numerous factors and uncertainties,  some of which  are beyond our  control.
 The  following  is  a  description  of  some  of  the  important  risks  and
 uncertainties that may cause the actual results of the Company's  operations
 in future periods to differ from those expected or desired.

 Changes in the banking and credit union industry could reduce demand for our
 products.  Cyclical fluctuations in economic conditions affect profitability
 and  revenue  growth  at  commercial banks  and  credit unions.  Unfavorable
 economic conditions  negatively  affect the  spending  of banks  and  credit
 unions,   including  spending  on  computer  software  and  hardware.   Such
 conditions  could   reduce   both   our   sales   to   new   customers   and
 upgrade/complementary product sales to existing customers.

 We  may  not  be  able  to  manage  growth.  We  have grown  both internally
 and through acquisitions.  Our  expansion has  and  will continue  to  place
 significant  demands  on  our  administrative,  operational,  financial  and
 management personnel and systems.  We may not be able to enhance and  expand
 our product lines,  manage costs, adapt  our infrastructure  and modify  our
 systems to accommodate future growth.

 If we fail to adapt our products  and services to changes in technology,  we
 could  lose existing customers  and be unable to  attract new business.  The
 markets  for  our   software  and   hardware  products   and  services   are
 characterized by  changing  customer requirements  and  rapid  technological
 changes.  These  factors and  new  product  introductions  by  our  existing
 competitors or  by new  market  entrants could  reduce  the demand  for  our
 existing products and services and we may be required to develop or  acquire
 new products and services.  Our  future success is dependent on our  ability
 to enhance our  existing products  and services in  a timely  manner and  to
 develop or acquire new products and services.  If we are unable  to  develop
 or acquire new products and services as planned,  or if we fail to sell  our
 new or enhanced products and services,  we may incur unanticipated  expenses
 or fail to achieve anticipated revenues.

 Security problems could  damage our  reputation and  business.  We  rely  on
 standard encryption, network and Internet security systems, most of which we
 license from  third  parties, to  provide  the security  and  authentication
 necessary to effect secure transmission of data.  Computer networks and  the
 Internet are vulnerable to unauthorized  access, computer viruses and  other
 disruptive  problems.  Individual personal  computers  can  be  stolen,  and
 customer data  tapes can  be lost  in shipment.  Under  state  and  proposed
 federal laws requiring consumer notification of security breaches, the costs
 to remediate security  breaches can  be  substantial.  Advances in  computer
 capabilities, new discoveries in the field  of cryptography or other  events
 or developments may render our security measures inadequate.  Security risks
 may result in liability to us and also may deter financial institutions from
 purchasing our products.  We will continue to expend significant capital and
 other resources protecting against the threat  of security breaches, and  we
 may need  to  expend  resources alleviating  problems  caused  by  breaches.
 Eliminating computer  viruses and  addressing  other security  problems  may
 result in interruptions,  delays or cessation  of service to  users, any  of
 which could harm our business.

 Our growth may be  affected if we  are unable to  find or complete  suitable
 acquisitions.  We have augmented the growth of our business with a number of
 acquisitions and  we plan  to continue  to acquire  appropriate  businesses,
 products and services.  This strategy depends on  our  ability to  identify,
 negotiate and finance suitable acquisitions.  Substantial recent merger  and
 acquisition activity  in  our industry  has  affected the  availability  and
 pricing  of  such  acquisitions.  If  we  are  unable  to  acquire  suitable
 acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth.

 Acquisitions may be costly and difficult  to integrate.  We have acquired  a
 number of businesses  in the  last few years  and will  continue to  explore
 acquisitions in the future.  We  may not  be able to successfully  integrate
 acquired companies.  We may encounter  problems with the integration of  new
 businesses including: financial control  and computer system  compatibility;
 unanticipated  costs;  unanticipated  quality  or  customer  problems   with
 acquired products or services; differing regulatory  and industry standards;
 diversion of management's  attention; adverse effects  on existing  business
 relationships with  suppliers  and customers;  loss  of key  employees;  and
 significant amortization expenses  related to acquired  assets.  To  finance
 future acquisitions, we may have to increase our borrowing or sell equity or
 debt securities to the public.  Without additional acquisitions, we may  not
 be able to grow and to  develop new products and  services as quickly as  we
 have in the  past to  meet the competition.  If  we  fail  to integrate  our
 acquisitions, our business,  financial condition and  results of  operations
 could be materially and adversely affected.  Failed acquisitions could  also
 produce material  and unpredictable  impairment charges  as we  periodically
 review our acquired assets.

 Competition or general economic conditions may result in decreased demand or
 require price  reductions  or other  concessions  to customers  which  could
 result in lower  margins and reduce  income.  We  vigorously compete with  a
 variety of software vendors in all of  our major product lines.  We  compete
 on the  basis of  product quality,  reliability, performance,  ease of  use,
 quality of support, integration  with other products and  pricing.  Some  of
 our competitors  may have  advantages over  us due  to their  size,  product
 lines, greater  marketing  resources,  or  exclusive  intellectual  property
 rights.  If competitors  offer  more  favorable  pricing, payment  or  other
 contractual terms,  warranties, or  functionality,  or if  general  economic
 conditions decline such that customers are  less willing or able to pay  the
 cost of our products, we may need  to lower prices or offer favorable  terms
 in order to successfully compete.

 The loss of key employees could adversely affect our business.  We depend on
 the contributions and abilities of our  senior management.  Our Company  has
 grown significantly in recent years and our management remains  concentrated
 in a small  number of key  employees.  If  we lose one  or more  of our  key
 employees, we  could  suffer a  loss  of sales  and  delays in  new  product
 development, and management resources would have  to be diverted from  other
 activities   to  compensate  for  this  loss.  We  do  not  have  employment
 agreements with any of our executive officers.

 Consolidation of financial institutions will  continue to reduce the  number
 of our customers and  potential customers.  Our  primary market consists  of
 approximately 9,000 commercial  and savings banks  and 9,000 credit  unions.
 The number of commercial  banks and credit unions  has decreased because  of
 mergers and acquisitions over  the last several decades  and is expected  to
 continue to decrease as more consolidation occurs.

 The  services  we  provide  to  our  customers  are  subject  to  government
 regulation that could hinder the development of portions of our business  or
 impose constraints on  the way  we conduct  our  operations.  The  financial
 services industry  is subject  to extensive  and complex  federal and  state
 regulation.  As a supplier of  services to financial institutions,  portions
 of our  operations are  examined by  the Office  of the  Comptroller of  the
 Currency, the  Federal  Reserve  Board and  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance
 Corporation,  among  other  regulatory  agencies.  These  agencies  regulate
 services we provide and the manner in which we operate, and we are  required
 to  comply  with  a broad  range  of applicable  laws  and  regulations.  In
 addition, existing  laws,  regulations, and  policies  could be  amended  or
 interpreted differently by regulators in a manner that has a negative impact
 on our existing operations  or that limits our  future growth or  expansion.
 Our customers  are  also  regulated  entities,  and  actions  by  regulatory
 authorities could  determine both  the decisions  they make  concerning  the
 purchase  of  data  processing  and  other  services  and  the  timing   and
 implementation of these decisions.  Concerns are growing with respect to the
 use,  confidentiality,  and  security   of  private  customer   information.
 Regulatory  agencies,  Congress  and  state  legislatures  are   considering
 numerous regulatory  and statutory  proposals to  protect the  interests  of
 consumers and to require  compliance with standards  and policies that  have
 not been defined.

 The software we  provide to  our customers  is also  affected by  government
 regulation.  We are generally obligated to our customers to provide software
 solutions  that  comply  with  applicable  federal  and  state  regulations.
 Substantial software research and development and other corporate  resources
 have been and will continue to be applied to adapt our software products  to
 this evolving, complex and often unpredictable regulatory  environment.  Our
 failure to provide compliant solutions could result in significant fines  or
 consumer liability  on  our  customers,  for  which  we  may  bear  ultimate
 liability.

 As technology becomes less expensive and  more advanced, purchase prices  of
 hardware are  declining  and  our  revenues  and  profits  from  remarketing
 arrangements  may  decrease.   Computer  hardware  technology   is   rapidly
 developing.  Hardware  manufacturers are producing  less expensive and  more
 powerful equipment each year, and we expect this trend to continue into  the
 future.  As computer hardware becomes  less expensive, revenues and  profits
 derived from  our hardware  remarketing may  decrease and  become a  smaller
 portion of our revenues and profits.

 An operational failure in our outsourcing facilities could cause us to  lose
 customers.  Damage or destruction that interrupts our outsourcing operations
 could damage  our relationship  with customers  and may  cause us  to  incur
 substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged  equipment.  Our
 back-up systems  and  procedures  may not  prevent  disruption,  such  as  a
 prolonged interruption of our transaction processing services.  In the event
 that an interruption of our network extends for more than several hours,  we
 may experience  data loss  or a  reduction  in revenues  by reason  of  such
 interruption.  In addition, a significant interruption of service could have
 a negative impact on our reputation and could lead our present and potential
 customers to choose other service providers.

 If our strategic  relationship with  IBM were  terminated, it  could have  a
 negative impact on the  continuing success of our  business.  We market  and
 sell IBM  hardware and  equipment to  our customers  under an  IBM  Business
 Partner Agreement and  resell maintenance on  IBM hardware  products to  our
 customers.  Much  of  our  software  is  designed  to be compatible with the
 IBM  hardware that  is run  by a  majority of  our  customers.  If IBM  were
 to  terminate  or  fundamentally  modify  our  strategic  relationship,  our
 relationship with our customers and our revenues and earnings could  suffer.
 We could also lose software market share or be required to redesign existing
 products or develop new products for new hardware platforms.

 If others claim that we have  infringed their intellectual property  rights,
 we could be  liable for significant  damages.  We  have agreed to  indemnify
 many of our customers against claims that our products and services infringe
 on  the  proprietary rights  of others.  We  anticipate that  the number  of
 infringement claims will increase  as the number  of our software  solutions
 and services increases and  the functionality of  our products and  services
 expands.  Any such claims, whether  with or  without merit,  could be  time-
 consuming, result in  costly litigation  and may  not be  resolved on  terms
 favorable to us.

 Expansion of services to  non-traditional customers could  expose us to  new
 risks. Some  of our  recent acquisitions  include  business lines  that  are
 marketed outside our traditional,  regulated, and litigation-averse base  of
 financial institution customers.  These  non-regulated customers may  entail
 greater operational, credit and litigation risks  than we have faced  before
 and could result in increases in bad debts and litigation costs.

 Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues may  decrease
 overall margins.  We continue to experience a trend of a greater  proportion
 of our  products being  sold as  outsourcing services  rather than  in-house
 licenses.  We  realize lower  margins on  service revenues  than on  license
 revenues.  Thus,  if  service revenue  increases as  a percentage  of  total
 revenue, our gross margins  will be lower and  our operating results may  be
 impacted.

 Failure to achieve favorable renewals of service contracts could  negatively
 affect  our  outsourcing business.  Our  contracts  with our  customers  for
 outsourced data processing services generally run for a period of 3-5 years.
 Because of the rapid growth of  our outsourcing business over the last  five
 years, we will experience greater numbers  of these contracts coming up  for
 renewal over the next few years.  Renewal time presents our  customers  with
 the  opportunity  to  consider  other  providers  or  to  renegotiate  their
 contracts with us.  If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates
 upon favorable  terms,  our outsourcing  revenues  and profit  margins  will
 suffer.


 Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

 None.


 Item 2.  Properties

 We own  approximately 154  acres located  in Monett,  Missouri on  which  we
 maintain nine  office buildings  and shipping  & receiving  and  maintenance
 buildings.  We  also  own  buildings   in  Houston,  Texas;   Allen,  Texas;
 Albuquerque,  New  Mexico;  Birmingham,  Alabama;  Lenexa,  Kansas;  Angola,
 Indiana; Shawnee Mission, Kansas; Rogers, Arkansas; Oklahoma City,  Oklahoma
 and  San Diego,  California.  Our owned  facilities represent  approximately
 793,000 square feet  of office  space in  nine states.  We  have  46  leased
 office facilities in  25 states,  which total  approximately 333,000  square
 feet.  Approximately 26% or 46,000 square feet of the office space in Allen,
 TX is leased  to an  outside tenant.  The balance  of our  owned and  leased
 office facilities are for normal business purposes.

 Of our  facilities, the  credit union  business  segment uses  office  space
 totaling approximately 122,000 square feet in seven facilities. The majority
 of our San Diego, California offices  are used in the credit union  business
 segment, as are portions of six  other office facilities.  The remainder  of
 our leased  and owned  facilities, approximately  1,004,000 square  feet  of
 office space, is primarily devoted to  serving our bank business  segment or
 supports our whole business.

 We own six aircraft.  Many of our customers are located in communities  that
 do not have an easily accessible  commercial airline service.  We  primarily
 use our airplanes in  connection with implementation,  sales of systems  and
 internal requirements for day-to-day  operations.  Transportation costs  for
 implementation and other customer services are billed  to our customers.  We
 lease property, including real estate and related facilities, at the Monett,
 Missouri municipal airport.


 Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

 We are subject to  various routine legal proceedings  and claims arising  in
 the ordinary course of business. We do not expect that the results in any of
 these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our business,
 financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

 None.


                                   PART II

 Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
          and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

 The Company's common  stock is  quoted on  the NASDAQ  Global Select  Market
 ("NASDAQ"), formerly known as the NASDAQ  National Market, under the  symbol
 "JKHY".  The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
 and low sales price per share of the common stock as reported by NASDAQ.


                    Fiscal 2006           High       Low
                    -------------------------------------
                    First Quarter        $19.80    $18.04
                    Second Quarter        19.62     16.56
                    Third Quarter         22.98     19.09
                    Fourth Quarter        23.77     18.14


                    Fiscal 2005           High       Low
                    -------------------------------------
                    First Quarter        $20.13    $17.17
                    Second Quarter        20.55     18.50
                    Third Quarter         21.96     17.79
                    Fourth Quarter        19.19     15.35


 The Company established a practice of paying quarterly dividends at the  end
 of fiscal 1990 and  has paid dividends with  respect to every quarter  since
 that time.  Quarterly dividends per share  paid on the common stock for  the
 two most recent fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:


                    Fiscal 2006         Dividend
                    ----------------------------
                    First Quarter         $0.045
                    Second Quarter         0.045
                    Third Quarter          0.055
                    Fourth Quarter         0.055


                    Fiscal 2005         Dividend
                    ----------------------------
                    First Quarter         $0.040
                    Second Quarter         0.040
                    Third Quarter          0.045
                    Fourth Quarter         0.045


 The declaration and payment of any  future dividends will continue to be  at
 the discretion of our Board of  Directors and will depend upon, among  other
 factors, our earnings, capital  requirements, contractual restrictions,  and
 operating and financial condition.  The  Company does not currently  foresee
 any changes in its dividend practices.

 Information regarding the Company's equity  compensation plans is set  forth
 under the caption  "Equity Compensation Plan  Information" in the  Company's
 definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

 On August 18, 2006, there were approximately 44,757 holders of the Company's
 common stock.  On that same date the last sale price of the common shares as
 reported on NASDAQ was $18.92 per share.


 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

 The following  shares of  the Company  were repurchased  during the  quarter
 ended June 30, 2006:

                                                Total Number    Maximum Number
                                     Average     of Shares      of Shares that
                       Total Number   Price     Purchased as      May Yet Be
                         of Shares  Paid Per  Part of Publicly  Purchased Under
 Period                  Purchased    Share    Announced Plans   the Plans (1)
 ----------------------  ---------   -------   ---------------  ---------------
 April 1-April 30, 2006          -   $  0.00              -        3,750,116
 May 1 - May 31, 2006    1,076,862   $ 19.28      1,076,862        2,673,254
 June 1 - June 30, 2006    448,700   $ 18.91        448,700        2,224,554
                         ---------   -------   ---------------  --------------
 Total                   1,525,562   $ 19.17      1,525,562        2,224,554
                         =========   =======   ===============  ==============

 (1) Purchases made under the stock repurchase authorization approved by  the
 Company's Board of Directors on October 4, 2002 with respect to 6.0  million
 shares,  which  was  increased  by 2.0 million shares on April 29, 2005.  On
 August 25, 2006, following the end  of  the  quarter, the Company's Board of
 Directors approved an  additional  5.0 million  share increase  to the stock
 repurchase authorization.  These authorizations have  no  specific dollar or
 share price targets and no expiration dates.


 Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

<TABLE>
                                          Selected Financial Data
                                  (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)

                                            YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                ---------------------------------------------------
 Income Statement Data           2006       2005       2004       2003      2002
 ---------------------          ---------------------------------------------------
 <S>                           <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
 Revenue (1)                   $592,205   $535,863   $467,415   $404,627   $396,657
 Net income                    $ 89,924   $ 75,501   $ 62,315   $ 49,397   $ 57,065

 Diluted net income per share  $   0.96   $   0.81   $   0.68   $   0.55   $   0.62

 Dividends declared per share  $   0.20   $   0.17   $   0.15   $   0.14   $   0.13

 Balance Sheet Data
 ------------------
 Working capital               $ 42,918   $ 13,710   $ 85,818   $ 70,482   $ 67,321
 Total assets                  $906,067   $814,153   $653,614   $548,575   $486,142
 Long-term debt                     421   $      -   $      -   $      -   $      -
 Stockholders' equity          $575,212   $517,154   $442,918   $365,223   $340,739


  (1) Revenue includes license sales, support and service revenues, and
  hardware sales, less returns and allowances.

</TABLE>

 Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations

 The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the
 "Selected Financial  Data" and  the  consolidated financial  statements  and
 related notes included elsewhere in this report.

  OVERVIEW

 Background and Overview

 We provide  integrated computer  systems for  in-house and  outsourced  data
 processing  to  commercial   banks,  credit  unions   and  other   financial
 institutions.  We have  developed  and  acquired banking  and  credit  union
 application software  systems  that  we  market,  together  with  compatible
 computer hardware, to these  financial institutions.  We  also perform  data
 conversion and software implementation services for our systems and  provide
 continuing customer support services after the systems are implemented.  For
 our customers  who prefer  not to  make an  up-front capital  investment  in
 software and hardware, we provide our full range of products and services on
 an outsourced  basis through  our six  data centers  and 23  item-processing
 centers located throughout the United States.

 A detailed discussion of the major  components of the results of  operations
 follows.  All amounts are in  thousands and discussions compare fiscal  2006
 to fiscal 2005 and compare fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2004.

 We derive revenues from three primary sources of revenue:

   - software licenses;

   - support and service fees, which include implementation services; and

   - hardware sales, which includes all non-software remarketed products.

 Over the last five  fiscal years, our revenues  have grown from $396,657  in
 fiscal 2002 to $592,205 in fiscal 2006.  Net  income has grown from  $57,065
 in fiscal 2002 to $89,924 in fiscal 2006. This growth has resulted primarily
 from internal expansion supplemented by strategic acquisitions, allowing  us
 to develop  and  acquire new products  and  services for approximately 2,300
 customers who utilize our core software systems as of June 30, 2006.

 Since  the  start  of fiscal 2002,  we  have completed 17 acquisitions.  All
 of these  acquisitions  were  accounted  for  using  the  purchase method of
 accounting and our consolidated financial statements include the results  of
 operations of  the  acquired  companies from  their  respective  acquisition
 dates.

 License revenue represents  the sale  and delivery  of application  software
 systems contracted  with us  by the  customer.  We license  our  proprietary
 software products under standard  license agreements that typically  provide
 the customer  with  a  non-exclusive,  non-transferable  right  to  use  the
 software on  a  single  computer and  for  a  single  financial  institution
 location.

 Support  and  services  fees  are  generated  from  implementation  services
 contracted with us by the customer,  ongoing support services to assist  the
 customer in operating the  systems and to enhance  and update the  software,
 and from providing  outsourced data processing  services and  ATM and  debit
 card processing services.  Outsourcing  services  are performed through  our
 data and item centers. Revenues from outsourced item and data processing and
 ATM and debit card processing services  are derived from monthly usage  fees
 typically under five-year service contracts with our customers.

 Cost of license fees represents the third party vendor costs associated with
 license fee revenue.

 Cost  of   services  represents   costs  associated   with  conversion   and
 implementation  efforts,  ongoing  support   for  our  in-house   customers,
 operation of our data and item centers providing services for our outsourced
 customers,  ATM  and  debit card processing services,  and  direct operation
 costs.

 We  have  entered   into  remarketing  agreements   with  several   hardware
 manufacturers under which we sell computer hardware and related services  to
 our customers.  Cost of hardware consists of the direct and related costs of
 purchasing  the  equipment  from  the  manufacturers  and  delivery  to  our
 customers.

 We have two business  segments: bank systems and  services and credit  union
 systems and services.  The respective segments include all related  license,
 support and  service, and  hardware sales  along with  the related  cost  of
 sales.


 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

 FISCAL 2006 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2005

 Fiscal 2006  showed  strong  growth in  support  and  service  revenues  and
 improved gross and operating  margins, which allowed us  to leverage an  11%
 increase in total revenue to a 19% increase in net income.

 REVENUE

 License Revenue
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2006       2005
                                            --------   --------
 License                                   $  84,014  $  82,374        2%
 Percentage of total revenue                     14%        15%

 License revenue  represents  the  delivery  and  acceptance  of  application
 software systems  contracted  by  us  with  the  customer.  We  license  our
 proprietary  software  products  under  standard  license  agreements   that
 typically provide the customer with a non-exclusive, non-transferable  right
 to use  the  software  on a  single  computer  and for  a  single  financial
 institution location.

 License revenue increased by $1,640 compared to last fiscal year mainly  due
 to growth in delivery and acceptance of software systems within the  banking
 segment, partially offset by  a decrease in the  credit union segment  which
 had experienced record revenues in fiscal 2005. Year-to-date license revenue
 in fiscal 2006 experienced growth in  many software solutions.  The  leading
 elements were  Synergy  Intelligent Document  Imaging[TM]  (our  intelligent
 document   imaging  and  archiving  solution),  Silverlake  System[R]   (our
 flagship software solution  for larger  banks), Biodentify[R] (our biometric
 fingerprint security solution), and Fraud Detective[TM] (our anti-fraud  and
 anti-money laundering software solution). In addition, both PROFITability[R]
 (our  product  profitability  solution)  and  PROFITstar ALM/Budgeting  (our
 asset/liability  and  budgeting solution), which were acquired during fiscal
 2006, contributed to license revenue growth.

 Support and Service Revenue
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2006       2005
                                            --------   --------
 Support and service                       $ 425,661  $ 364,076        17%
 Percentage of total revenue                     72%        68%


    Year Over Year Change                   $ Change   % Change
                                            --------   --------
    In-House Support & Other Services      $  26,932        16%
    EFT Support                               18,357        32%
    Outsourcing Services                      13,714        15%
    Implementation Services                    2,582         6%
                                            --------
    Total Increase                         $  61,585
                                            ========

 Support and  service revenues  are  generated from  implementation  services
 (including conversion,  installation,  configuration and  training),  annual
 support to assist the customer in operating their systems and to enhance and
 update the software, outsourced data processing  services and ATM and  debit
 card processing services.

 There  was  strong  growth  in  all  of  the  support  and  service  revenue
 components.  In-house  support and other  services increased  primarily from
 additional software licenses sold  during the previous  twelve  months.  EFT
 support, including  ATM  and  debit card  transaction  processing  services,
 experienced the largest percentage of growth.  Our daily transaction  counts
 are rapidly growing as we have added customers and as our customers continue
 to experience consistent organic growth in ATM and debit card  transactions.
 Outsourcing services  for banks  and  credit  unions also  continue to drive
 revenue growth  at  a strong  pace  as we  add  new bank  and  credit  union
 customers  and  open  new  data  processing  sites.   We  expect  growth  in
 outsourcing to continue as we add  services from recent acquisitions to  our
 existing  and  new  customers.  Implementation  services reflect  growth  as
 contracting  activity  continues  for  new license implementation as well as
 for conversion  activities  for  our existing  customers  who  have acquired
 institutions that had used other software systems.

 Hardware Revenue
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2006       2005
                                            --------   --------
 Hardware                                  $  82,530  $  89,413       -8%
 Percentage of total revenue                     14%        17%

 The Company has  entered into remarketing  agreements with several  hardware
 manufacturers under which  we sell computer  hardware, hardware  maintenance
 and related services to our customers.  Revenue related to hardware sales is
 recognized when the hardware is shipped to our customers.

 Hardware revenue continued to decrease as in prior years due to the  overall
 rising  equipment  processing  power  and  decreasing equipment prices.  The
 Company experienced  growth in  revenues related  to IBM  iSeries  machines,
 which was offset  by a  decrease in  revenues related  to pSeries  machines.
 These changes are consistent with the  changes experienced with our  license
 revenues.  In addition, the  Company discontinued offering certain  services
 related to uninterruptible power supply  equipment during fiscal 2005  which
 led to a decrease sales of that equipment during fiscal 2006.

 COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT

 Cost of license  represents the cost  of software from  third party  vendors
 through remarketing  agreements. These  costs  are recognized  when  license
 revenue  is  recognized.  Cost  of  support  and  service  represents  costs
 associated with conversion  and  implementation efforts, ongoing support for
 our in-house customers,  operation of our  data and  item centers  providing
 services for  our  outsourced  customers,  ATM  and  debit  card  processing
 services and direct operating costs.  These costs are recognized as they are
 incurred. Cost  of hardware  consists of  the direct  and related  costs  of
 purchasing  the  equipment  from  the  manufacturers  and  delivery  to  our
 customers.  These  costs  are recognized  at the  same time  as the  related
 hardware revenue is recognized.  Ongoing operating costs to provide  support
 to our customers are recognized as they are incurred.

 Cost of Sales and Gross Profit
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2006       2005
                                            --------   --------
 Cost of License                           $   2,717  $   5,547      -51%
 Percentage of total revenue                     >1%         1%

      License Gross Profit                 $  81,297  $  76,827       +6%
      Gross Profit Margin                        97%        93%
                                            -------------------

 Cost of support and service               $ 272,383  $ 244,097      +12%
 Percentage of total revenue                     46%        46%

      Support and Service Gross Profit     $ 153,278  $ 119,979      +28%
      Gross Profit Margin                        36%        33%
                                            -------------------

 Cost of hardware                          $  60,658  $  63,769       -5%
 Percentage of total revenue                     10%        12%

      Hardware Gross Profit                $  21,872  $  25,644      -15%
      Gross Profit Margin                        27%        29%
                                            -------------------

 TOTAL COST OF SALES                       $ 335,758  $ 313,413       +7%
 Percentage of total revenue                     57%        58%

      TOTAL GROSS PROFIT                   $ 256,447  $ 222,450      +15%
      Gross Profit Margin                        43%        42%

 Cost of  license decreased  for the  fiscal year  due to  fewer third  party
 reseller agreement software vendor  costs.  Gross  profit margin on  license
 revenue increased because  a smaller percentage  of the  revenue growth  was
 attributable  to  these reseller agreements.  Cost of  support  and  service
 increased  for  the  year  primarily  due  to  additional  personnel   costs
 (including  a  9%  increase in headcount) and costs related to the expansion
 of infrastructure  (including  depreciation, amortization,  and  maintenance
 contracts) as compared to last year.  The gross profit margin  increased  to
 36% from 33% in support and service, primarily due to efficiencies gained as
 recent acquisitions have  become more  fully integrated  and to  a shift  in
 sales mix toward services with slightly higher margins, such as our ATM  and
 debit card processing services.  Cost of hardware decreased for the year, in
 line with the  decrease in  hardware sales, primarily  due to  the types  of
 equipment  sold,  with  varying  vendor  incentives  in  the  current  year.
 Incentives  and  rebates  received  from  vendors  fluctuate  quarterly  and
 annually due to changing  thresholds established by  the  vendors.  Hardware
 gross profit margin decreased due to the number of hardware shipments, sales
 mix and vendor rebates received throughout the year.

 OPERATING EXPENSES

 Selling and Marketing
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2006       2005
                                            --------   --------
 Selling and marketing                     $  50,007  $  46,630       +7%
 Percentage of total revenue                      8%         9%

 Dedicated sales forces,  inside sales teams,  technical sales support  teams
 and  channel  partners  conduct  our  sales efforts for our market segments,
 and are  overseen  by regional  sales managers.  Our  sales  executives  are
 responsible for pursuing lead generation activities for new core  customers.
 Our account executives nurture long-term relationships with our client  base
 and cross sell  our  many complementary  products and services.  Our  inside
 sales force  markets specific  complementary products  and services  to  our
 existing customers.

 For the 2006 fiscal  year, the selling and  marketing expenses increase  was
 due to growth in personnel costs and additional expenses related to  product
 promotion, and generally correlates to the increase in revenue.

 Research and Development
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2006       2005
                                            --------   --------
 Research and development                  $  31,874  $  27,664      +15%
 Percentage of total revenue                      5%         5%

 We devote significant effort and expense to develop new software, to service
 products and to continually upgrade and enhance our existing  offerings.  We
 upgrade our various core and complementary software applications  throughout
 the  year.  We  believe  our research  and  development efforts  are  highly
 efficient  because  of  the  extensive   experience  of  our  research   and
 development  staff and because our product  development is highly  customer-
 driven.

 Research and  development  expenses grew  primarily  due to  employee  costs
 associated with a 21% increase in  headcount for ongoing development of  new
 products  and  enhancements  to  existing  products,  and  depreciation  and
 equipment maintenance expense.  Research and development  expenses  remained
 at 5% of total revenue for both fiscal years.

 General and Administrative
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2006       2005
                                            --------   --------
 General and administrative                $  35,208  $  29,087      +21%
 Percentage of total revenue                      6%         5%

 General and administrative expense increased primarily due to employee costs
 associated with  a  27% increase  in  headcount and  increases  in  employee
 benefit costs.  Also impacting the  increase was growth in overhead  related
 costs such as insurance, professional services and maintenance contracts.

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)

 Interest income increased 78% from $1,162 to $2,066 due primarily to  larger
 invested balances coupled with higher  interest rates on invested  balances.
 Interest expense increased 249% from $388 to $1,355 due to borrowings on the
 revolving bank credit facilities.

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

 The provision for income taxes was $50,145 or 35.8% of income before  income
 taxes in fiscal 2006 compared with  $44,342 or 37.0% of income before income
 taxes fiscal 2005.  The decrease in the percentage for fiscal 2006 is due to
 several factors, including the Section 199 Deduction for Domestic Production
 Activities, which is new this year.  Also impacting this year's tax rate was
 the Company's tax  treatment of the  deduction for  meals and  entertainment
 expenses, as well as changes in the estimated state tax  rates and from  our
 re-evaluation of  changes in  state  tax laws  in  relationship to  our  tax
 structure.

 NET INCOME

 Net income increased 19% from $75,501, or $0.81 per diluted share in  fiscal
 2005 to $89,923, or $0.96 per diluted share in fiscal 2006.


 FISCAL 2005 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2004

 Fiscal 2005  showed  strong  growth  in  revenues  and  improved  gross  and
 operating margins, which allowed us to  leverage a 15% increase in  revenues
 to a 21% increase in net income.

 REVENUE

 License Revenue
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2005       2004
                                            --------   --------
 License                                   $  82,374  $  62,593      +32%
 Percentage of total revenue                     15%        13%

 License revenue  represents  the  delivery  and  acceptance  of  application
 software systems  contracted  with  us  by  the  customer.  We  license  our
 proprietary  software  products  under  standard  license  agreements   that
 typically provide the customer with a non-exclusive, non-transferable  right
 to use  the  software  on a  single  computer  and for  a  single  financial
 institution location.

 License revenue increased by $19,781 from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005  mainly
 due to growth in delivery and acceptance of software systems within both the
 bank and credit union segments.  License revenue in fiscal 2005  experienced
 growth in many software solutions.  The leading elements were Episys[R] (our
 flagship software solution  for larger  credit unions),  third party  credit
 union ancillary  software  solutions,  Silverlake  System[R]  (our  flagship
 software solution for  larger banks), 4|sight[TM]  (our complementary  image
 solution), and Fraud Detective[TM] (our anti-fraud and anti-money laundering
 software solution).

 Support and Service Revenue
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2005       2004
                                            --------   --------
 Support and service                       $ 364,076  $ 311,287      +17%
 Percentage of total revenue                     68%        67%


    Year Over Year Change                   $ Change   % Change
                                            --------   --------
    In-House Support & Other Services      $  23,264        16%
    EFT Support                               15,577        43%
    Outsourcing Services                      11,016        13%
    Implementation Services                    2,932         7%
                                            --------
    Total Increase                         $  52,789
                                            ========

 Support  and  service revenues  are  generated from  implementation services
 (including conversion,  installation,  configuration and  training),  annual
 support to assist the customer in operating their systems and to enhance and
 update the software, outsourced data processing  services and ATM and  debit
 card processing services.

 There  was  strong  growth  in  all  of  the  support  and  service  revenue
 components.  In-house  support and other  services increased  primarily from
 additional software licenses sold  during the previous  twelve  months.  EFT
 support, including  ATM  and  debit card  transaction  processing  services,
 experienced the largest percentage of growth.  Our daily transaction  counts
 are rapidly  growing  as our  customers  continue to  experience  consistent
 organic growth in  ATM and  debit card transactions  as well  as strong  new
 customer contracting activity.  Outsourcing services  for banks  and  credit
 unions also continue to drive revenue growth at a strong pace  as we add new
 bank and credit union customers  and  open new  data  processing  sites.  We
 expect growth in  outsourcing to  continue as  we add  services from  recent
 acquisitions to our  existing  and  new customers.  Implementation  services
 reflect  growth   as  contracting   activity  continues   for  new   license
 implementation as well as merger conversions for our existing customers.

 Hardware Revenue
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2005       2004
                                            --------   --------
 Hardware                                  $  89,413  $  93,535       -4%
 Percentage of total revenue                     17%        20%

 The Company has  entered into remarketing  agreements with several  hardware
 manufacturers under which  we sell computer  hardware, hardware  maintenance
 and related services to our customers.  Revenue related to hardware sales is
 recognized when the hardware is shipped to our customers.

 Hardware revenue continued to decrease as in prior years due to the  overall
 rising equipment processing  power and decreasing  equipment  prices.  There
 was an increase in servers and the related components.  Hardware maintenance
 revenue which  represents  1.9% of the  hardware  revenue increased  due  to
 maintenance contracts acquired relating to acquisitions.

 COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT

 Cost of license  represents the cost  of software from  third party  vendors
 through remarketing agreements.  These  costs  are  recognized when  license
 revenue  is  recognized.  Cost  of  support  and  service  represents  costs
 associated with conversion and  implementation efforts, ongoing support  for
 our in-house customers,  operation of our  data and  item centers  providing
 services for  our  outsourced  customers,  ATM  and  debit  card  processing
 services and direct operating costs.  These costs are recognized as they are
 incurred. Cost  of hardware  consists of  the direct  and related  costs  of
 purchasing  the  equipment  from  the  manufacturers  and  delivery  to  our
 customers.  These  costs  are recognized  at the  same time  as  the related
 hardware revenue is recognized.  Ongoing operating costs to provide  support
 to our customers are recognized as they are incurred.

 Cost of Sales and Gross Profit
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2005       2004
                                            --------   --------
 Cost of License                           $   5,547  $   4,738      +17%
 Percentage of total revenue                      1%         1%

      License Gross Profit                 $  76,827  $  57,855      +33%
      Gross Profit Margin                        93%        92%
                                            -------------------

 Cost of support and service               $ 244,097  $ 207,730      +18%
 Percentage of  total revenue                    46%        44%

      Support and Service Gross Profit     $ 119,979  $ 103,557      +16%
      Gross Profit Margin                        33%        33%
                                            -------------------

 Cost of hardware                          $  63,769  $  66,969        -5%
 Percentage of  total revenue                    12%        14%

      Hardware Gross Profit                $  25,644  $  26,566        -3%
      Gross Profit Margin                        29%        28%
                                            -------------------

 TOTAL COST OF SALES                       $ 313,413  $ 279,437       +12%
 Percentage of  total revenue                    58%        60%

      TOTAL GROSS PROFIT                   $ 222,450  $ 187,978       +18%
      Gross Profit Margin                        42%        40%

 Cost of  license increased  for the  fiscal  year due  to more  third  party
 reseller agreement software vendor costs.  These  costs increased  primarily
 in the prior quarters of  the current fiscal year.  Gross  profit margin  on
 license revenue increased  slightly due to  the associated  costs for  third
 party software marketed through  reseller agreements.  Cost of  support  and
 service increased for the year, in line with the support and service revenue
 increase, primarily due to additional personnel costs and costs relating  to
 the expanding  infrastructure  (including  depreciation,  amortization,  and
 maintenance contracts) as compared to the same periods last year.  The gross
 profit margin remained at 33% in support and service for both fiscal  years,
 primarily due  to  increased  headcount relating  to  support  and  service,
 facility costs related to new acquisitions, and depreciation expense of  new
 equipment.  Cost of  hardware decreased  for  the year,  in  line  with  the
 decrease in hardware sales,  primarily due to the  types of equipment  sold,
 with varying vendor incentives in the current year.  Incentives and  rebates
 received from  vendors  fluctuate quarterly  and  annually due  to  changing
 thresholds  established  by  the  vendors.   Hardware  gross  profit  margin
 increased minimally due to the number  of hardware shipments, sales mix  and
 vendor rebates received throughout the year.

 OPERATING EXPENSES

 Selling and Marketing
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2005       2004
                                            --------   --------
 Selling and marketing                     $  46,630  $  35,964      +30%
 Percentage of  total revenue                     9%         8%

 Dedicated sales forces,  inside sales teams,  technical sales support  teams
 and  channel  partners  conduct  our  sales efforts for our market segments,
 and are  overseen  by regional sales  managers.  Our  sales  executives  are
 responsible for pursuing lead generation activities for new core  customers.
 Our account executives nurture long-term relationships with our client  base
 and cross sell  our  many complementary  products and services.  Our  inside
 sales force  markets specific  complementary products  and  services to  our
 existing customers.

 For the 2005 fiscal  year, selling and marketing  expenses increased due  to
 commissions and expenses related to revenue growth with a direct correlation
 to license and hardware revenue.  Sales force  head count from  acquisitions
 during fiscal 2005 also contributed to the additional expenses for the year.

 Research and Development
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2005       2004
                                            --------   --------
 Research and development                  $  27,664  $  23,674      +17%
 Percentage of  total revenue                     5%         5%

 We  devote  significant  effort  and  expense  to  develop new software;  to
 service  products  and  to  continually  upgrade  and  enhance our  existing
 offerings.  Typically, we upgrade all of our core and complementary software
 applications once per year.  We believe our research and development efforts
 are highly efficient because of the extensive experience of our research and
 development staff and  because our product  development is highly  customer-
 driven.

 Research  and  development expenses grew  primarily  due to  employee  costs
 associated   with   increased  headcount  for  ongoing  development  of  new
 products and enhancements to  existing products,  depreciation and equipment
 maintenance expense and  employees added  from acquisitions.   Research  and
 development expenses remained at 5% of total revenue for both fiscal years.

 General and Administrative
                                            Year Ended June 30,  % Change
                                            -------------------  --------
                                              2005       2004
                                            --------   --------
 General and administrative                $  29,087  $  29,534       -2%
 Percentage of  total revenue                     5%         6%

 General and administrative  expense decreased  due to  overall cost  control
 measures  implemented  throughout  the   year.  In  addition,  General   and
 administrative expenses decreased  due to  a loss on disposal  of assets  of
 approximately $1,000 along with assets being fully depreciated during fiscal
 2005.

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)

 Interest income increased 16% from $1,006 to $1,162 due primarily to  higher
 interest rates on invested balances.  Interest expense increased  263%  from
 $107 to $388 due to borrowings on the revolving bank credit facilities.

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

 The provision for income taxes was $44,342 or 37.0% of income before  income
 taxes in fiscal 2005 compared with  $37,390 or 37.5% of income before income
 taxes fiscal 2004.  The decrease in the percentage for fiscal 2005 is due to
 changes in  the estimated  state  tax rates  and  from our  reevaluation  of
 changes in state tax laws in relationship to our tax structure.

 NET INCOME

 Net income increased 21% from $62,315, or $0.68 per diluted share in  fiscal
 2004 to $75,501, or $0.81 per diluted share in fiscal 2005.

 BUSINESS SEGMENT DISCUSSION

 Bank Systems and Services

                          2006     % Change    2005      % Change     2004
                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
 Revenue               $ 482,886     +13%    $ 428,695     +12%    $ 382,084
 Gross Profit          $ 214,817     +18%    $ 181,792     +18%    $ 154,646

 Gross Profit Margin         44%                   42%                   40%

 In fiscal  2006, the  revenue  increase in  the  bank systems  and  services
 business segment  is  primarily  due to  improved  license  sales  for  most
 products and continued growth in support and service revenue.  Gross  profit
 increased due to growth  in license and support  and service revenue,  which
 carry a higher gross profit margin.  Support and service revenue,  which  is
 the largest component of total revenues for the banking segment, experienced
 growth  in  ATM  and  debit  card   processing  services  and  in   in-house
 maintenance.  The  increase  in maintenance  revenue was  largely driven  by
 recent  acquisition  activity.  Hardware revenue,  which usually  carries  a
 lower gross profit margin,  decreased  by 10%.  The mix of revenue  combined
 with improved procedures and  overall cost controls  allowed us to  leverage
 our resources, resulting in a steady increase to our profit margin year over
 year.

 In fiscal  2005, the  revenue  increase in  the  bank systems  and  services
 business segment  is  primarily  due to  improved  license  sales  for  most
 products and continued growth in support and service revenue.  Gross  profit
 increased in fiscal 2005, due to  growth in license and support and  service
 revenue, which carry a higher gross profit margin.  There was a decrease  in
 hardware revenue, which usually carries a  lower  gross  profit margin.  The
 mix of revenue combined with improved  procedures and overall cost  controls
 allowed us to leverage our resources, resulting in a steady increase to  our
 profit margin year over year.

 Credit Union Systems and Services

                          2006     % Change    2005      % Change     2004
                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
 Revenue               $ 109,319     +2%     $ 107,168     +26%    $  85,331
 Gross Profit          $  41,630     +2%     $  40,658     +22%    $  33,332

 Gross Profit Margin         38%                   38%                   39%

 In fiscal 2006, revenues in the  credit union systems and services  business
 segment increased slightly from fiscal 2005.  This increase is mainly due to
 strong growth in support and service revenue, mostly offset by a decrease in
 license revenue from fiscal 2005 when license revenue was at a  historically
 high level.  Support and service revenue, which is the largest component  of
 total revenues for the credit union  segment, experienced growth in ATM  and
 debit card processing services  and in in-house  maintenance.  In  addition,
 our data center maintenance revenue grew  by 39% over fiscal 2005, which  is
 consistent with our expansion of outsourcing solutions within this  segment.
 Gross profit in this business segment remained flat in fiscal 2006  compared
 to fiscal 2005.

 Revenues in the credit union systems and services business segment increased
 substantially in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004.  This increase is mainly  due
 to strong growth in support and service revenue from new services introduced
 in the  prior  year, with  the  outsourced area  experiencing  the  greatest
 increase.  Gross  profit  in this  business  segment decreased  slightly  in
 fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004 mainly  due to the decrease in hardware  margin
 relating to the sales mix and vendor rebates.

 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

 We have historically generated positive cash  flow from operations and  have
 generally used existing  resources and  funds generated  from operations  to
 meet capital requirements.  We expect this trend to continue in the future.

 The Company's cash  and  cash equivalents  increased to $74,139  at June 30,
 2006 from $11,608 at June 30, 2005.

 The following table  summarizes net cash  from operating  activities in  the
 statement of cash flows:

                                                  Year ended June 30,
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             2006         2005         2004
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Net income                              $   89,924   $   75,501   $   62,315
 Non-cash expenses                           52,788       45,244       41,352
 Change in deferred revenue                  10,561       16,909       10,673
 Change in assets and liabilities            16,165      (29,379)      (1,531)
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Net cash from operating activities      $  169,438   $  108,275   $  112,809
                                          =========    =========    =========

 Cash provided by  operations increased $61,163  to $169,438  for the  fiscal
 year ended June 30, 2006 as compared  to $108,275 for the fiscal year  ended
 June 30, 2005.  The  increase  consists  of  an increase  in net  income  of
 $14,423, an increase in depreciation  and  amortization expense of $4,863, a
 total increase  of $2,681 in deferred income taxes, expense for  stock-based
 compensation, loss on disposal of property and equipment and other expenses.
 In addition, receivables were lower at June 30, 2006 compared to 2005 due to
 the timing of our annual maintenance billings, which occurred earlier in the
 year.  This resulted in a net cash inflow from operations  of $30,413.  Cash
 used for the  prepayment of  expenses was $18,625  in fiscal  2006, up  from
 $7,015 in fiscal 2005, primarily due  to the renewal of several  maintenance
 contracts during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  A decrease in  accounts
 payable with  increases  in  accrued expenses,  income  taxes  and  deferred
 revenues created a further net cash inflow from operations of $14,938.

 Cash used in investing  activities for the fiscal  year ended June 2006  was
 $77,190, which included  capital expenditures of  $45,396, primarily for  an
 accounting software system conversion of $10,300 and building infrastructure
 within  the  company.  The  acquisition  of Profitstar,  Inc.  and  earn-out
 payments made  for prior  acquisitions used  $20,745 in  fiscal 2006,  while
 $16,079 was used for software development costs.  The proceeds from sale  of
 equipment were $4,255.  Financing activities used cash of $29,717, primarily
 to purchase treasury stock of $41,819  and  for dividends of $18,383, offset
 by cash provided by proceeds from  issuance of stock upon exercise of  stock
 options of $19,928, the sale of stock of $694,  borrowings of $5,120 and the
 excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $4,743.

 In 2001, the Company's  Board of Directors approved  a stock buyback of  the
 Company's common stock of up to 3.0 million shares, and approved an increase
 to 6.0 million shares  in 2002.  Through fiscal  2004, a total of  3,009,384
 shares had  been repurchased  by  the  Company under  these  authorizations.
 Repurchases through fiscal 2004 were funded with cash from operations.

 During fiscal 2004 there  were 2,009,694 shares  and 37,776 shares  reissued
 from treasury stock for the shares exercised under the employee stock option
 plan and purchased under the employee stock purchase plan, respectively.  At
 June 30, 2004, there were 315,651 shares remaining in treasury stock.

 During fiscal 2005 there were 306,027 shares and 9,624 shares reissued  from
 treasury stock for the shares exercised under the employee stock option plan
 and  purchased  under  the  employee  stock  purchase  plan,   respectively,
 depleting the existing treasury shares.

 In  April  2005,  the  Board  of  Directors  increased  the  existing  stock
 repurchase authorization by 2.0  million shares.  Under this  authorization,
 the Company may finance its share  repurchases with available cash  reserves
 or  short-term  borrowings  on  its  existing  credit  facility.  The  share
 repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables and
 may be suspended at any time.  As of June 30, 2005,  553,300 shares had been
 repurchased during the fiscal year for $9,952.

 During the year ended June 30, 2006,  2,212,762 shares were repurchased  for
 $41,819. At June 30, 2006, there were 2,766,062 shares remaining in treasury
 stock  and  the Company  had  the remaining  authority to repurchase  up  to
 2,224,554 shares.

 Subsequent to June  30, 2006, the  Company's Board of  Directors declared  a
 cash dividend of $.055  per share on its  common stock payable on  September
 18, 2006,  to  stockholders of record  on September 8, 2006.  Current  funds
 from operations are adequate for this purpose.  The Board has indicated that
 it plans to  continue paying dividends  as long as  the Company's  financial
 picture continues to be favorable.

 The Company  renewed a  credit line  on March  22, 2006  which provides  for
 funding of up to $8,000 and bears interest at the prime rate (8.25% at  June
 30, 2006).  The credit line expires March 22, 2007 and is secured by  $1,000
 of investments.  There were no outstanding amounts at June 30, 2006 or 2005.

 The Company obtained a bank credit line on April 28, 2006 which provides for
 funding of up to $5,000 and bears interest at the prime rate less 1%  (8.25%
 at June 30, 2006).  The credit line matures  on April 30, 2008.  At June 30,
 2006, no amount was outstanding.

 The unsecured  revolving bank  credit facility  allows  borrowing of  up  to
 $150,000, which may be increased by the Company at any time until April 2008
 to $225,000.  The unsecured revolving bank credit facility bears interest at
 a rate equal to (a) LIBOR or (b) an alternate base rate (the greater of  (a)
 the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2% or (b) the  Prime Rate), plus an applicable
 percentage in each  case determined  by  the Company's  leverage ratio.  The
 unsecured revolving  credit  line  terminates  April 19, 2010.  At  June 30,
 2006, the revolving bank credit facility balance was $50,000.

 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS

 At  June  30,  2006  the  Company's  total  off-balance  sheet   contractual
 obligations were $19.1 million.  This  balance consists of $15.7 million  of
 long-term operating leases for various facilities which expire from  2006 to
 2011 and the remaining $3.4 million  is for purchase commitments related  to
 property and equipment. The Company also has contingent earn-out obligations
 of up to $27.0 million to the sellers in three acquisitions completed during
 fiscal year 2005.  These  amounts are payable over  two to four years  based
 variously upon  gross  revenues,  net  earnings  and  net  operating  income
 achieved by the individual acquired business units.

 Contractural obligations by   Less than                       More than
 period as of June 30, 2006      1 year   1-3 years  3-5 years  5 years   TOTAL
 ---------------------------   ---------  ---------  ---------  -------  -------
 Operating lease obligations    $ 4,760    $7,402     $3,488      $40    $15,690
 Capital lease obligations          241       421          -        -        662
 Note payable                    50,000         -          -        -     50,000
 Purchase obligations             3,417         -          -        -      3,417
                               ---------  ---------  ---------  -------  -------
 Total                          $58,418    $7,823     $3,488      $40    $69,769
                               =========  =========  =========  =======  =======


 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 We  prepare  our  consolidated  financial  statements  in  accordance   with
 accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  ("U.S.
 GAAP").  The  significant  accounting  policies  are  discussed  in  Note  1
 to  the consolidated financial  statements.  The preparation of consolidated
 financial statements  in  accordance with  U.S.  GAAP requires  us  to  make
 estimates  and  judgments  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of  assets,
 liabilities, revenue  and  expenses, as  well  as disclosure  of  contingent
 assets and liabilities.  We base our estimates and judgments upon historical
 experience  and  other   factors  believed  to   be  reasonable  under   the
 circumstances.  Changes in  estimates  or  assumptions  could  result  in  a
 material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements.

 We have identified  several critical  accounting  estimates.  An  accounting
 estimate is considered critical if both:  (a) the nature of the estimates or
 assumptions is  material due  to the  levels  of subjectivity  and  judgment
 involved, and (b)  the impact of  changes in the  estimates and  assumptions
 would have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.

 Revenue Recognition

 We recognize  revenue in  accordance with  the  provisions of  Statement  of
 Position ("SOP") 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended by SOP 98-
 9, "Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions," and
 clarified by Staff Accounting Bulletin  ("SAB") 101, Revenue Recognition  in
 Financial Statements," SAB 104,  "Revenue Recognition," and Emerging  Issues
 Task  Force  Issue  No.  00-21  ("EITF  00-21"),  "Accounting  for   Revenue
 Arrangements  with  Multiple  Deliverables."   The  application   of   these
 pronouncements requires judgment, including  whether a  software arrangement
 includes multiple  elements,  whether  any elements  are  essential  to  the
 functionality of any other  elements, and whether  vendor-specific objective
 evidence  ("VSOE")  of  fair  value  exists  for those  elements.  Customers
 receive certain elements of our products over time.  Changes to the elements
 in a  software arrangement  or in  our ability  to identify  VSOE for  those
 elements could materially impact the amount  of earned and unearned  revenue
 reflected in the financial statements.

 License Fee Revenue.  For software license agreements  that  do not  require
 significant modification  or  customization  of the  software,  the  Company
 recognizes  software  license  revenue   when  persuasive  evidence  of   an
 arrangement exists, delivery of the product has occurred, the license fee is
 fixed and determinable and collection is  probable.  The Company's  software
 license agreements  generally  include  multiple products  and  services  or
 "elements."  None  of  these elements are  deemed to  be  essential  to  the
 functionality of the  other  elements.  SOP 97-2,  as amended  by SOP  98-9,
 generally  requires  revenue  earned  on  software  arrangements   involving
 multiple elements to be allocated to  each element based on Vendor  Specific
 Objective Evidence ("VSOE")  of fair value.  Fair value  is  determined  for
 license  fees based  upon the  price charged when  sold  separately.  In the
 event that we  determine that VSOE  does not exist  for one or  more of  the
 delivered elements of a software arrangement,  but does exist for all of the
 undelivered elements, revenue is recognized  the residual method allowed  by
 SOP 98-9.  Under  the  residual  method,  a  residual  amount of  the  total
 arrangement fee is recognized  as revenue for  the delivered elements  after
 the established fair value of all undelivered elements has been deducted.

 Support and Service Fee Revenue.  Implementation services are generally  for
 installation, training, implementation, and  configuration.  These  services
 are not considered essential to the  functionality of the related  software.
 VSOE  of  fair  value  is  established  by pricing  used when these services
 are sold separately.  Generally revenue  is  recognized  when  services  are
 completed.  On certain larger  implementations, revenue is recognized  based
 on milestones during the implementation.  Milestones are triggered by  tasks
 completed or based on direct labor hours.

 Maintenance support revenue is recognized pro-rata over the contract period,
 typically one year.  VSOE  of  fair value  is determined  based on  contract
 renewal rates.

 Outsourced  data  processing  services  and  ATM,  debit  card,  and   other
 transaction processing services  revenues are  recognized in  the month  the
 transactions were processed or the services were rendered.

 Hardware Revenue.  Hardware  revenue  is  recognized  upon delivery  to  the
 customer, when title and risk of loss are transferred.  In most cases, we do
 not stock in inventory the hardware products we sell, but arrange for third-
 party suppliers to drop-ship  the products to our  customers on our  behalf.
 For these transactions, the  Company follows the  guidance provided in  EITF
 99-19, "Reporting Revenue  Gross as  a Principal  versus Net  as an  Agent."
 Based upon  the  indicators  provided within  this  consensus,  the  Company
 records the revenue related to our  drop-ship transactions at gross and  the
 related costs are included in cost of hardware.  The Company also  remarkets
 maintenance contracts on  hardware to our  customers.  Hardware  maintenance
 revenue is recognized ratably over the agreement period.

 Depreciation and Amortization Expense

 The calculation of  depreciation and amortization  expense is  based on  the
 estimated economic lives of the underlying property, plant and equipment and
 intangible assets,  which  have been  examined  for their  useful  life  and
 determined that no impairment  exists.  We believe  it is unlikely that  any
 significant changes  to the  useful lives  of  our tangible  and  intangible
 assets will  occur in  the near  term, but  rapid changes  in technology  or
 changes in market  conditions could result  in revisions  to such  estimates
 that could materially  affect the  carrying value  of these  assets and  the
 Company's future consolidated operating results.  All long lived assets  are
 tested for valuation and potential impairment on a scheduled annual basis.

 Capitalization of software development costs

 We capitalize certain costs incurred to develop commercial software products
 and to develop or purchase internal-use software. Significant estimates  and
 assumptions include:  determining  the  appropriate  period  over  which  to
 amortize  the  capitalized  costs  based  on  the  estimated  useful  lives,
 estimating the marketability of the commercial software products and related
 future revenues, and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment.
 For commercial software products,  determining the appropriate  amortization
 period is based on estimates of future revenues from sales of the  products.
 We consider various  factors to project  marketability and future  revenues,
 including an assessment  of alternative solutions  or products, current  and
 historical demand for  the product,  and anticipated  changes in  technology
 that may make  the product  obsolete. A  significant change  in an  estimate
 related to one or more software  products could result in a material  change
 to our results of operations.

 Estimates used to determine deferred income taxes

 We make certain estimates  and judgments in  determining income tax  expense
 for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the
 calculation  of  certain  tax  assets  and  liabilities,  which  arise  from
 differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax  and
 financial statement  purposes.  We also  must  determine the  likelihood  of
 recoverability of deferred tax assets,  and adjust any valuation  allowances
 accordingly. Considerations  include the  period of  expiration of  the  tax
 asset, planned use of  the tax asset, and  historical and projected  taxable
 income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction to which the  tax
 asset relates. Valuation allowances are  evaluated periodically and will  be
 subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes  in
 one or more of these factors.

 Assumptions related to purchase accounting and goodwill

 We account for  our acquisitions using  the purchase  method of  accounting.
 This  method  requires  estimates  to  determine  the fair  values of assets
 and liabilities  acquired,  including  judgments to  determine  any acquired
 intangible  assets  such  as   customer-related  intangibles,  as  well   as
 assessments of  the fair  value  of existing  assets  such  as  property and
 equipment. Liabilities  acquired can  include  balances for  litigation  and
 other  contingency  reserves  established  prior  to  or  at  the  time   of
 acquisition, and require judgment in ascertaining a reasonable value.  Third
 party valuation firms  may be  used to assist  in the  appraisal of  certain
 assets  and liabilities, but  even  those  determinations would be based  on
 significant estimates provided by us, such as forecasted revenues or profits
 on contract-related intangibles. Numerous  factors are typically  considered
 in the  purchase  accounting assessments,  which  are conducted  by  Company
 professionals from  legal, finance,  human resources,  information  systems,
 program  management  and  other  disciplines.  Changes  in  assumptions  and
 estimates of the acquired assets and liabilities would result in changes  to
 the fair values, resulting in an  offsetting change to the goodwill  balance
 associated with the business acquired.

 As goodwill is not amortized, goodwill  balances are regularly assessed  for
 potential impairment.  Such  assessments require an  analysis of future cash
 flow  projections as well as a  determination  of  an  appropriate  discount
 rate  to  calculate  present  values.  Cash  flow  projections  are based on
 management-approved estimates,  which involve  the input of numerous Company
 professionals from finance, operations  and program management. Key  factors
 used in estimating future cash flows include assessments of labor and  other
 direct costs on existing  contracts, estimates of  overhead costs and  other
 indirect costs, and assessments of new business prospects and projected  win
 rates. Significant changes in the estimates and assumptions used in purchase
 accounting and goodwill impairment testing can have a material effect on the
 consolidated financial statements.

 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

 Except  for  the  historical  information  contained  herein,  the   matters
 discussed in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
 and Results of Operations and other portions of this report contain forward-
 looking statements within the  meaning of federal  securities  laws.  Actual
 results are  subject  to  risks  and  uncertainties,  including  both  those
 specific to the  Company and  those specific  to the  industry, which  could
 cause results to differ materially from  those contemplated.  The risks  and
 uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the matters detailed in "Risk
 Factors"  in  Item  1A  of this report.  Undue reliance should not be placed
 on  the forward-looking  statements.  The  Company  does not  undertake  any
 obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.

 Potential risks and uncertainties which  could adversely affect the  Company
 include: the  financial  health of  the  banking industry,  our  ability  to
 continue or effectively manage growth, adapting our products and services to
 changes  in  technology,  changes  in  our  strategic  relationships,  price
 competition, loss of key employees,  consolidation in the banking  industry,
 increased government  regulation,  network or  internet  security  problems,
 declining  computer  hardware  prices,  and  operational  problems  in   our
 outsourcing facilities and others listed in "Risk Factors" at Item 1A.


 Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

 Market risk refers to  the risk that a  change in the level  of one or  more
 market prices, interest rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or  other
 market factors  such as  liquidity,  will result  in  losses for  a  certain
 financial instrument or group  of financial instruments.  We  are  currently
 exposed to credit risk on credit extended to customers and interest risk  on
 investments in U.S. government securities.  We actively monitor these  risks
 through a variety of controlled procedures involving  senior management.  We
 do not currently  use any derivative  financial  instruments.  Based on  the
 controls in place, credit worthiness of  the customer base and the  relative
 size of these  financial instruments, we  believe the  risk associated  with
 these  instruments  will  not  have  a   material  adverse  effect  on   our
 consolidated financial position or results of operations.


 Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data



                          Index to Financial Statements


   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm           39

   Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over
     Financial Reporting                                             40

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm           41

   Financial Statements

       Consolidated Statements of Income,
       Years Ended June 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004                     42

      Consolidated Balance Sheets,  June 30, 2006 and 2005           43

      Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity,
      Years Ended June 30, 2006,  2005, and 2004                     44

      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
      Years Ended June 30, 2006,  2005, and 2004                     45

      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                     46


 Financial Statement Schedules

      There are no schedules included because they are not applicable or  the
 required information is  shown in the  consolidated financial statements  or
 notes thereto.

<PAGE>

 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
 Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.
 Monett, Missouri


 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Jack Henry &
 Associates, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the "Company") as of  June 30, 2006  and
 2005, and  the  related  consolidated statements  of  income,  stockholders'
 equity,  and  cash  flows  for  each  of the three years in the period ended
 June 30, 2006.  These financial statements  are  the  responsibility  of the
 Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on  these
 financial statements based on our audits.

 We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with the  standards of  the  Public
 Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
 that we plan  and perform  the audit  to obtain  reasonable assurance  about
 whether the  financial  statements  are free  of material  misstatement.  An
 audit includes examining, on a test  basis, evidence supporting the  amounts
 and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements.  An  audit  also  includes
 assessing  the  accounting principles used  and  significant estimates  made
 by  management,  as  well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement
 presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
 opinion.

 In our opinion,  such consolidated financial  statements present fairly,  in
 all material respects, the financial position of Jack Henry & Associates and
 subsidiaries at June 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their  operations
 and their cash flows for each  of the three years  in the period ended  June
 30, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
 United States of America.

 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
 Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United  States),  the  effectiveness  of  the
 Company's internal control  over financial reporting  as  of  June 30, 2005,
 based on the criteria  established in Internal Control-Integrated  Framework
 issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway
 Commission and our report dated September 11, 2006  expressed an unqualified
 opinion on management's  assessment of  the effectiveness  of the  Company's
 internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on  the
 effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.


 /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

 St. Louis, Missouri

 September 11, 2006

<PAGE>

 MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

 The  management  of  Jack  Henry  &  Associates,  Inc.  is  responsible  for
 establishing  and  maintaining  adequate  internal  control  over  financial
 reporting.  The  Company's internal control  over financial  reporting is  a
 process designed to provide  reasonable assurance regarding the  reliability
 of financial reporting  and the  preparation of  the Company's  consolidated
 financial statements  for external  reporting  purposes in  accordance  with
 accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

 The Company's internal  control over financial  reporting includes  policies
 and procedures pertaining to the maintenance of records that, in  reasonable
 detail, accurately  and  fairly  reflect transactions  and  dispositions  of
 assets; provide reasonable assurance transactions are recorded as  necessary
 to permit  preparation of  consolidated financial  statements in  accordance
 with accounting  principles  generally  accepted in  the  United  States  of
 America, and receipts  and expenditures are  being made  only in  accordance
 with authorizations  of management  and the  directors of  the Company;  and
 provide reasonable  assurance regarding  prevention or  timely detection  of
 unauthorized acquisition, use  or disposition of  the Company's assets  that
 could have  a  material  effect  on  the  Company's  consolidated  financial
 statements.  All internal  controls,  no  matter  how  well  designed,  have
 inherent limitations.  Therefore, even where internal control over financial
 reporting is  determined to  be effective,  it can  provide only  reasonable
 assurance.  Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
 are subject to the risk controls may become inadequate because of changes in
 conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures  may
 deteriorate.

 As of the  end of the  Company's 2006 fiscal  year, management conducted  an
 assessment of  the  effectiveness of  the  Company's internal  control  over
 financial reporting based on the framework established in Internal  Control-
 Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations  of
 the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Based  on this  assessment, management  has
 determined the Company's  internal control  over financial  reporting as  of
 June 30, 2006 was effective.

 Management's assessment  of  the  effectiveness of  the  Company's  internal
 control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2006 has been audited by the
 Company's independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in  their
 report appearing on the next page,  which expresses unqualified opinions  on
 management's assessment and on the  effectiveness of the Company's  internal
 control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2006.

<PAGE>

 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
 Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.
 Monett, Missouri

 We have  audited  management's  assessment,  included  in  the  accompanying
 Management's Annual  Report on  Internal Control  over Financial  Reporting,
 that  Jack  Henry  &  Associates,  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")
 maintained effective internal  control over financial  reporting as of  June
 30, 2006,  based  on  criteria established  in  Internal  Control-Integrated
 Framework issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the
 Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining
 effective  internal control over financial reporting and for  its assessment
 of  the effectiveness of  internal  control  over  financial reporting.  Our
 responsibility  is  to  express an  opinion on  management's  assessment and
 an  opinion  on  the  effectiveness  of  the Company's internal control over
 financial reporting based on our audit.

 We conducted  our audit  in  accordance with  the  standards of  the  Public
 Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
 that we plan  and perform  the audit  to obtain  reasonable assurance  about
 whether effective internal control  over financial reporting was  maintained
 in  all  material  respects.  Our  audit included obtaining an understanding
 of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  evaluating  management's
 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
 internal control,  and  performing such other  procedures as  we  considered
 necessary  in  the  circumstances.  We believe  that  our audit  provides  a
 reasonable basis for our opinions.

 A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process  designed
 by, or  under the  supervision of,  the  company's principal  executive  and
 principal financial officers, or  persons performing similar functions,  and
 effected  by  the  company's  board  of  directors,  management,  and  other
 personnel to  provide  reasonable  assurance regarding  the  reliability  of
 financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
 purposes in accordance  with  generally  accepted accounting  principles.  A
 company's internal control over financial reporting includes those  policies
 and procedures  that (1)  pertain to  the maintenance  of records  that,  in
 reasonable detail,  accurately  and  fairly  reflect  the  transactions  and
 dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable  assurance
 that transactions  are  recorded  as  necessary  to  permit  preparation  of
 financial  statements  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting
 principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
 only in accordance with  authorizations of management  and directors of  the
 company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
 detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the  company's
 assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

 Because of  the  inherent limitations  of  internal control  over  financial
 reporting, including  the possibility  of collusion  or improper  management
 override of controls, material misstatements due  to error or fraud may  not
 be prevented  or detected  on a  timely  basis.  Also,  projections  of  any
 evaluation of  the  effectiveness of  the  internal control  over  financial
 reporting to future periods  are subject to the  risk that the controls  may
 become inadequate because of  changes in conditions, or  that the degree  of
 compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

 In  our  opinion,  management's  assessment  that  the  Company   maintained
 effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2006,  is
 fairly stated, in all material respects,  based on the criteria  established
 in  Internal  Control-Integrated  Framework  issued  by  the  Committee   of
 Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Also  in our  opinion,
 the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
 over  financial  reporting  as  of  June 30, 2006,  based  on  the  criteria
 established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
 of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
 Accounting Oversight  Board  (United  States),  the  consolidated  financial
 statements as of and for the year ended June 30, 2006 of the Company and our
 report dated  September 11, 2006 expressed  an unqualified  opinion on  those
 financial statements.

 /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

 St. Louis, Missouri

 September 11, 2006

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)

                                                      YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                               -------------------------------
                                                 2006        2005        2004
                                               --------    --------    --------
 REVENUE
    License                                   $  84,014   $  82,374   $  62,593
    Support and service                         425,661     364,076     311,287
    Hardware                                     82,530      89,413      93,535
                                               --------    --------    --------
           Total                                592,205     535,863     467,415

 COST OF SALES
    Cost of license                               2,717       5,547       4,738
    Cost of support and service                 272,383     244,097     207,730
    Cost of hardware                             60,658      63,769      66,969
                                               --------    --------    --------
           Total                                335,758     313,413     279,437
                                               --------    --------    --------

 GROSS PROFIT                                   256,447     222,450     187,978

 OPERATING EXPENSES
    Selling and marketing                        50,007      46,630      35,964
    Research and development                     31,874      27,664      23,674
    General and administrative                   35,209      29,087      29,534
                                               --------    --------    --------
           Total                                117,090     103,381      89,172
                                               --------    --------    --------

 OPERATING INCOME                               139,357     119,069      98,806

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)
    Interest income                               2,066       1,162       1,006
    Interest expense                             (1,355)       (388)       (107)
                                               --------    --------    --------
           Total                                    711         774         899
                                               --------    --------    --------

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES                     140,068     119,843      99,705

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                      50,145      44,342      37,390
                                               --------    --------    --------
 NET INCOME                                   $  89,923   $  75,501   $  62,315
                                               ========    ========    ========

 Diluted net income per share                 $    0.96   $    0.81   $    0.68
                                               ========    ========    ========
 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding     93,787      92,998      91,859
                                               ========    ========    ========

 Basic net income per share                   $    0.98   $    0.83   $    0.70
                                               ========    ========    ========
 Basic weighted average shares outstanding       91,484      90,891      89,325
                                               ========    ========    ========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
               (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

                                                              JUNE 30,
                                                   --------------------------
                                                      2006            2005
                                                   ----------      ----------
 ASSETS
 CURRENT ASSETS:
    Cash and cash equivalents                     $    74,139     $    11,608
    Investments, at amortized cost                      2,181             993
    Receivables                                       180,295         209,922
    Prepaid expenses and other                         24,402          14,986
    Prepaid cost of product                            22,228          20,439
    Deferred income taxes                               3,165           2,345
                                                   ----------      ----------
      Total current assets                            306,410         260,293

 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, net                          251,632         243,191

 OTHER ASSETS:
    Prepaid cost of product                            15,191          10,413
    Computer software, net of amortization             43,840          29,488
    Other non-current assets                            9,285           6,868
    Customer relationships, net of amortization        63,162          68,475
    Trade names                                         4,009           4,010
    Goodwill                                          212,538         191,415
                                                   ----------      ----------
      Total other assets                              348,025         310,669
                                                   ----------      ----------
      Total assets                                $   906,067     $   814,153
                                                   ==========      ==========
 LIABILITES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
    Accounts payable                              $    14,525     $    15,895
    Accrued expenses                                   29,012          24,844
    Accrued income taxes                                3,312           3,239
    Note payable and current maturities
      of capital lease                                 50,241          45,000
    Deferred revenues                                 166,402         157,605
                                                   ----------      ----------
      Total current liabilities                       263,492         246,583

 LONG TERM LIABILITIES:
    Deferred revenues                                  19,317          13,331
    Deferred income taxes                              47,430          37,085
    Other long-term liabilities,
      net of current maturities                           616               -
                                                   ----------      ----------
     Total long term liabilities                       67,363          50,416
                                                   ----------      ----------

     Total liabilities                                330,855         296,999

 STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
    Preferred stock - $1 par value; 500,000
      shares authorized, none issued                        -               -
    Common stock - $0.01 par value: 250,000,000
      shares authorized;
      Shares issued at 06/30/06 were 93,955,663
      Shares issued at 06/30/05 were 92,050,778           939             920
    Additional paid-in capital                        224,195         195,878
    Retained earnings                                 401,849         330,308
    Less treasury stock at cost 2,766,062 shares
      at 06/30/06, 553,300 shares at 06/30/05         (51,771)         (9,952)
                                                   ----------      ----------
      Total stockholders' equity                      575,212         517,154
                                                   ----------      ----------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity  $   906,067     $   814,153
                                                   ==========      ==========

   See notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

                                                   YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                           ------------------------------------
                                              2006         2005         2004
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 PREFERRED SHARES:                                  -          -              -
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 COMMON SHARES:
   Shares, beginning of year               92,050,778   90,519,856   90,519,856
   Shares issued upon exercise of
     stock options                          1,869,659    1,381,085            -
   Shares issued for Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan                             35,226       32,111            -
   Shares issued in acquisition                     -      117,726            -
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Shares, end of year                   93,955,663   92,050,778   90,519,856
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 COMMON STOCK - PAR VALUE  $0.01 PER SHARE:
   Balance, beginning of year             $       920  $       905  $       905
   Shares issued upon exercise of
     stock options                                 19           14            -
   Shares issued in acquisition                     -            1            -
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $       939  $       920  $       905
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------

 ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL:
   Balance, beginning of year             $   195,878  $   175,706  $   169,299
   Shares issued upon exercise of
     stock options                             19,909       14,250       21,661
   Shares issued for Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan                                694          780          719
   Shares issued in acquisition                     -        2,240            -
   Tax benefit on exercise of
     stock options                              7,260        6,858        6,408
     Stock-based compensation                     454            -            -
   Cost of treasury shares reissued                 -       (3,956)     (22,381)
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $   224,195  $   195,878  $   175,706
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 RETAINED EARNINGS:
   Balance, beginning of year             $   330,308  $   271,433  $   233,396
   Net income                                  89,924       75,501       62,315
   Reissuance of treasury shares                    -       (1,170)     (10,870)
   Dividends (2006- $0.20 per share;
     2005-$0.17 per share;
     2004-$0.15 per share)                    (18,383)     (15,456)     (13,408)
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $   401,849  $   330,308  $   271,433
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
 TREASURY STOCK:
   Balance, beginning of year             $    (9,952) $    (5,126) $   (38,377)
   Purchase of treasury shares                (41,819)      (9,952)           -
   Reissuance of treasury shares upon
     exercise of stock options                      -        4,970       32,638
   Reissuance of treasury shares for
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan                   -          156          613
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
     Balance, end of year                 $   (51,771) $    (9,952) $    (5,126)
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------

 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY               $   575,212  $   517,154  $   442,918
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In Thousands)

                                                      YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                               --------------------------------
                                                 2006        2005        2004
                                               --------    --------    --------
 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

 Net Income                                   $  89,924   $  75,501   $  62,315

 Adjustments to reconcile net income
  from continuing operations:
  from operating activities:
    Depreciation                                 33,442      29,795      26,790
    Amortization                                 10,332       9,116       6,750
    Deferred income taxes                         8,291       5,275       5,588
    Expense for stock-based compensation            454           -           -
    Loss on disposal of property and equipment      269       1,058       2,293
    Other, net                                        -           -         (69)

 Changes in operating assets and
  liabilities, net of acquisitions:
    Receivables                                  30,413     (35,017)    (17,897)
    Prepaid expenses, prepaid cost
      of product, and other                     (18,625)     (7,015)      1,636
    Accounts payable                             (1,636)      5,160        (471)
    Accrued expenses                              3,450       3,303       3,414
    Income taxes (including tax benefit
      of $6,858 in fiscal 2005 and $6,408
      in fiscal 2004 from exercise of
      stock options)                              2,563       4,190      11,787
    Deferred revenues                            10,561      16,909      10,673
                                               --------    --------    --------
      Net cash from operating activities        169,438     108,275     112,809

 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
    Payment for acquisitions, net               (20,745)   (119,501)    (48,288)
    Capital expenditures                        (45,396)    (58,046)    (49,141)
    Purchase of investments                      (4,519)     (4,976)     (3,991)
    Proceeds from sale of property
      and equipment                               4,255         170         971
    Proceeds from investments                     5,037       5,000       4,633
    Computer software developed                 (16,079)     (7,846)     (4,409)
    Other, net                                      257         137         188
                                               --------    --------    --------
      Net cash from investing activities        (77,190)   (185,062)   (100,037)

 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
    Proceeds from issuance of common
      stock upon exercise of stock options       19,928      14,264      21,661
    Proceeds from sale of common stock, net         694         781         719
    Note payable                                  5,120      45,000           -
    Excess tax benefits from stock-based
      compensation                                4,743           -           -
    Purchase of treasury stock                  (41,819)     (9,952)          -
    Dividends paid                              (18,383)    (15,456)    (13,408)
                                               --------    --------    --------
      Net cash from financing activities        (29,717)     34,637       8,972
                                               --------    --------    --------
 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH
   AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                       $  62,531   $ (42,150)  $  21,744

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR $  11,608      53,758      32,014
                                               --------    --------    --------
 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR       $  74,139   $  11,608   $  53,758
                                               ========    ========    ========

 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

                JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Amounts)


 NOTE 1.  NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY

 Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. and Subsidiaries ("JHA" or the "Company") is a
 leading provider  of  integrated computer  systems  that has  developed  and
 acquired a  number  of  banking  and  credit  union  software  systems.  The
 Company's  revenues are  predominately  earned  by  marketing those  systems
 to  financial  institutions  nationwide  together  with  computer  equipment
 (hardware)  and  by providing  the conversion  and  software  implementation
 services for a financial institution to  utilize a JHA software system.  JHA
 also provides continuing support and services to customers using in-house or
 outsourced systems.

 CONSOLIDATION

 The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of JHA and all of
 its subsidiaries, which are wholly-owned, and all significant  inter-company
 accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

 Effective  July  1,  2005,  the  Company  adopted  Statement  of   Financial
 Accounting Standards  ("SFAS") No.  123 (R),  "Share-Based Payment",  ("SFAS
 123(R)"), a revision of SFAS 123, using the modified prospective application
 transition  method.   SFAS  123(R)  requires  all  share-based  payments  to
 employees, including  grants  of stock  options,  to be  recognized  in  the
 consolidated statements  of income,  in lieu  of  pro forma  disclosures  as
 provided above.  The Company will  continue to use the Black-Scholes  option
 pricing  model  used  under  SFAS  123  for  the  purposes   of  determining
 compensation expense related to options granted. The adoption of SFAS 123(R)
 did not have a significant impact  on our financial position or our  results
 of  operations.  Prior  to the  adoption  of SFAS  123(R), benefits  of  tax
 deductions in  excess  of recognized  compensation  costs were  reported  as
 operating cash flows.  SFAS 123(R) requires excess tax benefits be  reported
 as a financing cash inflow rather  than as a reduction  of taxes  paid.  The
 Company has calculated  its additional paid  in capital  pool ("APIC  pool")
 based on the  actual income tax  benefits received from  exercises of  stock
 options granted after the effective date of SFAS 123 using the long  method.
 The APIC pool is available to absorb any tax deficiencies subsequent to  the
 adoption of SFAS 123(R).  At June 30, 2006, the APIC pool was $27,349.

 Prior  to  July 1, 2005,  in  accordance with  Accounting  Principles  Board
 Opinion No. 25, "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees" ("APB 25"),  no
 compensation expense was recorded for stock  options.  The Company  provides
 below the  pro  forma  net  income disclosures  required  by  SFAS  No.  123
 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123").

                                            Year Ended June 30,
                                          ----------------------
                                             2005         2004
                                          ---------    ---------
 Net income, as reported                 $   75,501   $   62,315

 Deduct:  Total stock-based employee
 compensation expense determined under
 fair value based method for all awards,
 net of related tax effects                   1,614        7,187
                                          ---------    ---------
 Pro forma net income                    $   73,887   $   55,128
                                          =========    =========

 Diluted net income per share
                         As reported     $     0.81   $     0.68
                         Pro forma       $     0.79   $     0.60

 Basic net income per share
                         As reported     $     0.83   $     0.70
                         Pro forma       $     0.81   $     0.62

 If the Company had adopted SFAS 123(R)  for fiscal years 2005 and 2004,  net
 cash from  financing activities  would have  been  increased by  $4,084  and
 $3,151 for the years ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively and net cash
 from operating activities would have decreased by $4,084 and $3,151 for  the
 same periods, respectively.

 On June 29, 2005, the Board  of Directors approved the immediate vesting  of
 all stock options previously granted under the 1996 Stock Option Plan ("1996
 SOP") that had exercise  prices higher than the  market price on such  date.
 As a result of this action, the vesting  of 201,925 options was  accelerated
 by an average  of 15 months.  No other changes  to these options were  made.
 The weighted average exercise price of these accelerated options was $21.15,
 and exercise prices  of the affected  options range from  $18.64 to  $25.00.
 The accelerated options constituted only  2.1% of the company's  outstanding
 options, at the date of the acceleration.  No options held by any  directors
 or executive officers  of the Company  were accelerated or  affected in  any
 manner by this action.

 The purpose of accelerating vesting of the options was to enable to  Company
 to reduce the impact of  recognizing future compensation expense  associated
 with these  options  upon  adoption of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
 Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)").  The  aggregate
 pre-tax expense  for the  shares subject  to acceleration  that, absent  the
 acceleration  of  vesting,  would  have  been  reflected  in  the  Company's
 consolidated financial statements beginning in fiscal 2006 was estimated  to
 be a  total  of  approximately $802  (approximately  $510  in  fiscal  2006,
 approximately $185  in fiscal  2007, approximately  $89 in  fiscal 2008  and
 approximately $18 in fiscal 2009).  These estimates are not adjusted for any
 actual or estimated future forfeitures.

 The weighted-average  fair  value of  options  granted during  fiscal  2006,
 fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was $10.13, $6.97, and $7.43, respectively.  The
 only options granted during fiscal 2006 were to non-employee members of  the
 Company's board of directors.  The assumptions used in estimating fair value
 and resulting compensation expenses are as follows:

                                                  Year Ended June 30,
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             2006         2005         2004
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
      Weighted Average Assumptions:
        Expected life (years)                 7.65        3.53         3.88
        Volatility                              42%         48%          53%
        Risk free interest rate                4.4%        3.1%         1.6%
        Dividend yield                        0.89%       0.88%        0.75%

 The option  pricing model  assumptions such  as expected  life,  volatility,
 risk-free interest rate, and dividend yield impact  the fair value estimate.
 These assumptions are subjective and generally require significant  analysis
 and   judgment  to  develop.   When  estimating  fair  value,  some  of  the
 assumptions  were  based  on or determined  from external data (for example,
 the  risk-free interest  rate)  and  other  assumptions  were  derived  from
 our  historical  experience  with  share-based  payment arrangements  (e.g.,
 volatility, expected life  and  dividend yield).  The appropriate weight  to
 place on historical experience is a matter  of  judgment, based on  relevant
 facts and circumstances.

 Our net income for the year ended June 30, 2006 includes $454 of stock-based
 compensation costs.

 USE OF ESTIMATES

 The preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  accounting
 principles generally  accepted  in the  United  States of  America  requires
 management to  make estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported
 amounts of assets and  liabilities and disclosure  of contingent assets  and
 liabilities as of  the date  of the  financial statements  and the  reported
 amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
 could differ from those estimates.

 REVENUE RECOGNITION

 The Company  derives revenue  from the  following  sources:   license  fees,
 support and service fees and hardware sales.  There are no rights of return,
 condition  of  acceptance  or  price  protection  in  the  Company's   sales
 contracts.

 License Fee Revenue:  For software license agreements  that  do not  require
 significant modification  or  customization  of the  software,  the  Company
 recognizes  software  license  revenue   when  persuasive  evidence  of   an
 arrangement exists, delivery of the product has occurred, the license fee is
 fixed and determinable and collection is  probable.  The Company's  software
 license agreements  generally  include  multiple products  and  services  or
 "elements."  None of  these elements  are  deemed to  be  essential  to  the
 functionality of the other  elements.  Statement  of Position ("SOP")  97-2,
 "Software Revenue  Recognition,"  as  amended,  generally  requires  revenue
 earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be  allocated
 to each element based on vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of fair
 value.  Fair  value  is determined  for license  fees based  upon the  price
 charged when sold separately or, if the product is not yet sold  separately,
 the price determined by  management with relevant  authority.  In the  event
 that we determine that VSOE does not exist for one or more of the  delivered
 elements  of  a  software  arrangement,  but  does  exist  for  all  of  the
 undelivered elements,  revenue  is  recognized  using  the  residual  method
 allowed by SOP 98-9, "Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to  Certain
 Transactions".  Under the  residual method, a residual  amount of the  total
 arrangement fee is recognized  as revenue for  the delivered elements  after
 the established fair value of all undelivered elements has been deducted.

 Support and Service Fee Revenue:  Implementation services are generally  for
 installation, training, implementation, and  configuration.  These  services
 are not considered essential to the  functionality of the related  software.
 VSOE of fair value  is established by pricing  used when these services  are
 sold separately or, if the services  are not yet sold separately, the  price
 determined by  management  with  relevant authority.  Generally  revenue  is
 recognized when services are completed.  On certain larger  implementations,
 revenue  is  recognized  based  on  milestones  during  the  implementation.
 Milestones are triggered by tasks completed or based on direct labor hours.

 Maintenance support revenue is recognized pro-rata over the contract period,
 typically one year.  VSOE  of  fair value  is determined  based on  contract
 renewal rates.

 Outsourced data  processing  and  ATM, debit  card,  and  other  transaction
 processing services revenue is recognized in the month the transactions  are
 processed or the services are rendered.

 Hardware Revenue:  Hardware  revenue  is  recognized  upon delivery  to  the
 customer, when title and risk of loss are transferred.  In most cases, we do
 not stock in inventory the hardware products we sell, but arrange for third-
 party suppliers to drop-ship  the products to our  customers on our  behalf.
 For these  transactions,  the  Company  follows  the  guidance  provided  in
 Emerging Issues  Task Force  Issue ("EITF")  No. 99-19,  "Reporting  Revenue
 Gross as a Principal  versus Net as  an Agent."  Based upon  the  indicators
 provided within this consensus, the Company  records the revenue related  to
 our drop-ship transactions at  gross and the related  costs are  included in
 cost  of  hardware.  The Company  also  remarkets maintenance  contracts  on
 hardware to  our  customers.  Hardware  maintenance  revenue  is  recognized
 ratably over the agreement period.

 PREPAID COST OF PRODUCT

 Costs for remarketed hardware and software maintenance contracts, which  are
 prepaid, are recognized ratably over the life of the contract, generally one
 to five years, with the related revenue amortized from deferred revenues.

 DEFERRED REVENUES

 Deferred revenues consist primarily of prepaid annual software support  fees
 and prepaid hardware  maintenance fees. Hardware  maintenance contracts  are
 multi-year; therefore, the deferred  revenue and maintenance are  classified
 in  accordance  with  the terms  of  the  contract.  Software  and  hardware
 deposits received are also reflected as deferred revenues.

 COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT

 The Company  capitalizes new  product development  costs incurred  from  the
 point at which  technological feasibility has  been established through  the
 point at  which the  product is  ready  for general  availability.  Software
 development costs that are capitalized are evaluated on a product-by-product
 basis annually and are assigned an estimated economic life based on the type
 of product,  market characteristics,  and maturity  of the  market for  that
 particular product.  The Company's amortization policy for these capitalized
 costs is to amortize the costs  in accordance with SFAS 86, "Accounting  for
 the Costs of Computer Software to  be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise  Marketed".
 Generally, these costs are amortized based  on current and estimated  future
 revenue from  the product  or on  a  straight-line basis,  whichever  yields
 greater amortization expense.

 CASH EQUIVALENTS

 The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three
 months or less at the time of acquisition to be cash equivalents.

 INVESTMENTS

 The Company invests  its cash that  is not required  for current  operations
 primarily  in  U.S.  government   securities,  money  market  accounts   and
 certificates of deposit.  The Company has the positive intent and ability to
 hold its debt  securities until maturity  and accordingly, these  securities
 are classified  as  held-to-maturity  and are  carried  at  historical  cost
 adjusted  for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts.  Premiums
 and discounts are amortized and  accreted, respectively, to interest  income
 using the  level-yield method  over the  period  to maturity.  The  held-to-
 maturity securities  typically mature  in less  than one  year. Interest  on
 investments in debt securities is included in income when earned.

 The amortized cost of held-to-maturity securities is $2,181 and $993 at June
 30, 2006 and 2005,  respectively.  Fair values  of these securities did  not
 differ significantly from amortized cost due to the nature of the securities
 and minor interest rate fluctuations during the periods.

 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

 Property and equipment is stated at  cost and depreciated principally  using
 the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

 Intangible assets  consist  of goodwill,  customer  relationships,  computer
 software, and trade names acquired in  business acquisitions in addition  to
 internally developed computer software.  The amounts are amortized, with the
 exception of goodwill and  trade names, over  an estimated economic  benefit
 period, generally five to twenty years, using the straight-line method.

 The Company reviews its long-lived assets and identifiable intangible assets
 with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
 have indicated  that  the  carrying  amount  of  its  assets  might  not  be
 recoverable.  The Company evaluates goodwill and trade names for  impairment
 of value on an annual basis and between annual tests if events or changes in
 circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

 Comprehensive income for  each of the  years ended June  30, 2006, 2005  and
 2004 equals the Company's net income.

 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

 In accordance with SFAS No. 131, "Disclosure About Segments of an Enterprise
 and Related Information",  the Company's  operations are  classified as  two
 business segments: bank systems  and services and  credit union systems  and
 services (see Note 13).  Revenue by type of product and service is presented
 on the face of the consolidated statements of income.  Substantially all the
 Company's revenues are derived from operations and assets located within the
 United States of America.

 COMMON STOCK

 In 2001, the Company's  Board of Directors approved  a stock buyback of  the
 Company's common stock of up to 3.0 million shares, and approved an increase
 to 6.0 million shares  in 2002.  Through fiscal  2004, a total of  3,009,384
 shares had  been  repurchased by  the  Company under  these  authorizations.
 Repurchases through fiscal 2004 were funded with cash from operations.

 During fiscal 2004, there were 2,009,694  shares and 37,776 shares  reissued
 from treasury stock for the shares exercised under the employee stock option
 plan and purchased under the employee stock purchase plan, respectively.  At
 June 30, 2004, there were 315,651 shares remaining in treasury stock.

 During fiscal 2005, there were 306,027 shares and 9,624 shares reissued from
 treasury stock for the shares exercised under the employee stock option plan
 and purchased under the employee stock purchase plan, respectively.

 In  April  2005,  the  Board  of  Directors  increased  the  existing  stock
 repurchase authorization by 2.0 million shares to 8.0 million shares.  Under
 this authorization,  the  Company may  finance  its share  repurchases  with
 available cash  reserves or  short-term borrowings  on its  existing  credit
 facility.  The  share repurchase  program does  not include  specific  price
 targets or timetables  and may be  suspended at any  time.  During the  year
 ended June 30, 2005, 553,300 shares were repurchased for $9,952.

 During the year ended  June 30, 2006, 2,212,762 shares were repurchased  for
 $41,819. At June 30, 2006, there were 2,766,062 shares remaining in treasury
 stock and  the Company  had  the remaining  authority  to repurchase  up  to
 2,224,554 shares.

 INCOME PER SHARE

 Per share information  is based  on the  weighted average  number of  common
 shares outstanding during the year.  Stock options have been included in the
 calculation of income  per diluted share  to the extent  they are  dilutive.
 The difference between basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding
 is the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options (see Note 10).

 INCOME TAXES

 Deferred tax liabilities and  assets are recognized for  the tax effects  of
 differences between  the financial  statement and  tax bases  of assets  and
 liabilities.  A valuation allowance would be established to reduce  deferred
 tax assets if it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will  not
 be realized.

 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

 In  December  2004,  the  FASB  issued   FASB  Staff  Position  No.   109-1,
 "Application of FASB Statement No. 109  ("SFAS 109"), Accounting for  Income
 Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on  Qualified Production Activities Provided  by
 the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004" ("FSP 109-1").  FSP 109-1  clarifies
 the manufacturer's deduction provided for  under the American Jobs  Creation
 Act of  2004 ("AJCA")  should be  accounted for  as a  special deduction  in
 accordance with SFAS 109.  Pursuant to the AJCA, the deduction for qualified
 production activities is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June
 30, 2006.  The  effect of the estimated  deduction to be  taken in the  2006
 consolidated  federal  income   tax  return   is  expected   to  result   in
 approximately $527 of tax benefit for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006.

 In May 2005,  the FASB issued  SFAS No. 154,  "Accounting Changes and  Error
 Corrections - a replacement of APB  Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement  No.3"
 ("SFAS 154").  SFAS 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for, and
 reporting of, a change  in accounting principle.  SFAS 154  requires that  a
 voluntary change in accounting principle be applied retrospectively with all
 prior period financial statements presented using the accounting  principle.
 SFAS 154 is effective  for accounting changes and  corrections of errors  in
 fiscal years beginning  after December 15,  2005.  The  Company will  comply
 with the provisions of SFAS 154 when applicable.

 In June 2006, the  FASB issued FASB Interpretation  No. 48, "Accounting  for
 Uncertainty in Income Taxes,  an interpretation of  FASB Statement No.  109"
 ("FIN 48").  FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
 recognized  in  an  enterprise's  financial  statements  and  prescribes   a
 recognition threshold  and  measurement attribute  for  financial  statement
 recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be  taken
 in  a tax  return.  This Interpretation  also provides  related guidance  on
 derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
 periods  and  disclosure.  FIN  48  is  effective  for the Company beginning
 July 1, 2007.  The  Company  is currently  evaluating  the  impact  of  this
 Interpretation.

 NOTE 2: FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

 Fair values  for  held-to-maturity securities  are  based on  quoted  market
 prices.  For all other  financial instruments, including amounts  receivable
 or payable and short-term and long-term borrowings, fair values  approximate
 carrying value, based on the short-term nature of the assets and liabilities
 and the variability of the interest rates on the borrowings.

 NOTE 3: PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

 The classification of property and equipment, together with their estimated
 useful lives is as follows:

                                          June 30,
                                  -----------------------    Estimated
                                     2006         2005      Useful Life
                                  ----------   ----------   -----------
 Land                            $    18,174  $    15,598
 Land improvements                    18,163       17,873   5-20 years
 Buildings                            90,916       80,790   25-30 years
 Leasehold improvements               18,985       16,140   5-10 years (1)
 Equipment and furniture             150,665      133,931   5-8 years
 Aircraft and equipment               41,499       50,523   8-10 years
 Construction in progress             12,637       19,681
                                  ----------   ----------
                                 $   351,039  $   334,536
  Less accumulated depreciation       99,407       91,345
                                  ----------   ----------
  Propery and equipment, net     $   251,632  $   243,191
                                  ==========   ==========

  (1)  Lesser of lease term or economic life

 At June 30,  2006 and  2005, the  Company had  commitments of  approximately
 $3,400 and $4,600, respectively, to purchase property and equipment.


 NOTE 4: OTHER ASSETS

 Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended June 30, 2006
 and 2005, by reportable segments, are:

                                        Banking   Credit Union
                                        Systems     Systems
                                          and         and
                                        Services    Services        Total
                                        --------    --------      ---------
   Balance,  as of July 1, 2004        $  65,899   $  17,229     $   83,128
   Goodwill acquired during the year     100,718       7,569        108,287
                                        --------    --------      ---------
   Balance,  as of June 30, 2005         166,617      24,798        191,415
   Goodwill acquired during the year      21,123           -         21,123
                                        --------    --------      ---------
   Balance,  as of  June 30, 2006      $ 187,740   $  24,798     $  212,538
                                        ========    ========      =========

 The Banking Systems and Services segment additions for fiscal 2006 relate
 primarily to the acquisition of Profitstar, Inc., with additional amounts
 relating to earn-out payments made on earlier acquisitions.  The additions
 for fiscal 2005 relate to various acquisitions.  See Note 12-Business
 Acquisitions for further details.

 Information regarding other identifiable intangible assets is as follows:

                                           June 30,
                             2006                           2005
                 ----------------------------   -----------------------------
                 Carrying Accumulated           Carrying Accumulated
                  Amount  Amortization   Net     Amount  Amortization   Net
                 -------   ---------  -------   -------   ---------   -------
 Customer
  relationships $110,664  $ (47,502) $ 63,162  $109,244  $ (40,769)  $ 68,475

 Trade names       4,009          -     4,009     4,010          -      4,010
                 -------   ---------  -------   -------   ---------   -------
 Totals         $114,673  $ (47,502) $ 67,171  $113,254  $ (40,769)  $ 72,485
                 =======   =========  =======   =======   =========   =======

 Trade names  have been  determined  to have  indefinite  lives and  are  not
 amortized.  Customer relationships have lives ranging from five to 20 years.
 Computer  software  includes  the  unamortized  cost  of  software  products
 developed or acquired by  the Company, which  are capitalized and  amortized
 over five to ten years.

 Following is an analysis of the computer software capitalized:

                                       Carrying    Accumulated
                                        Amount     Amortization      Total
                                       --------      --------      ---------
 Balance, July 1, 2004                $  26,454     $  (8,072)    $   18,382
 Acquired software                        6,666             -          6,666
 Disposals                               (3,580)        3,401           (179)
 Capitalizated development cost           7,846             -          7,846
 Amortization expense                         -        (3,227)        (3,227)
                                       --------      --------      ---------
 Balance, June 30, 2005                  37,386        (7,898)        29,488
 Acquired software                        1,872             -          1,872
 Disposals                               (1,228)        1,228              -
 Capitalizated development cost          16,079             -         16,079
 Amortization expense                         -        (3,599)        (3,599)
                                       --------      --------      ---------
 Balance, June 30, 2006               $  54,109     $ (10,269)    $   43,840
                                       ========      ========      =========

 Amortization expense  for  all intangible  assets  was $10,332,  $9,116  and
 $6,750  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  2006,  2005,  and   2004,
 respectively.  The estimated aggregate future amortization expense for  each
 of the next five years  for all intangible assets  remaining as of June  30,
 2006, is as follows:

                      Customer
       Year         Relationship    Software      Total
       ----         ------------    --------     -------
       2007            $5,941        $3,742       $9,683
       2008             5,847         3,282        9,129
       2009             5,722         2,180        7,902
       2010             5,171         1,460        6,631
       2011             4,682         1,219        5,901


 NOTE 5: DEBT

 The Company obtained a bank credit line on April 28, 2006 which provides for
 funding of up to $5,000 and bears interest at the prime rate less 1%  (8.25%
 at June 30, 2006).  The credit line matures  on April 30, 2008. At June  30,
 2006, no amount was outstanding.

 The Company  renewed a  credit line  on March  22, 2006  which provides  for
 funding of up to $8,000 and bears interest at the prime rate (8.25% at  June
 30, 2006).  The credit line expires March 22, 2007 and is secured by  $1,000
 of investments.  There were no outstanding amounts at June 30, 2006 or 2005.

 The Company obtained an  unsecured revolving bank  credit facility on  April
 19, 2005 which allows borrowing of up to $150,000, which may be increased by
 the  Company  at  any time  until  April  2008 to  $225,000.  The  unsecured
 revolving bank credit facility bears interest  at a rate equal to (a)  LIBOR
 or (b) an alternate  base rate (the  greater of (a)  the Federal Funds  Rate
 plus 1/2% or (b) the Prime Rate), plus an applicable percentage in each case
 determined by the Company's leverage ratio.  The unsecured revolving  credit
 line terminates April 19, 2010.  At June 30, 2006, the outstanding revolving
 bank credit facility balance  was $50,000 ($25,000 at  6.20% and $25,000  at
 6.21% at June 30, 2006).

 During fiscal year  2006, a capital  lease obligation of  $737 was  incurred
 when the  Company entered  into a  lease  for the  use of  certain  computer
 equipment.  At  June 30, 2006,  $662  was  outstanding,  of  which  $241  is
 included in current  maturities.  Maturities  of capital  lease payments  by
 fiscal year are $241 in fiscal 2007, $241 in fiscal 2008 and $180 in  fiscal
 2009.

 The Company paid interest of $1,439, $171, and $107 in 2006, 2005, and 2004,
 respectively.


 NOTE 6: LEASE COMMITMENTS

 The Company leases certain property under operating leases which expire over
 the next  six years.  All operating  leases are  non-cancelable.  All  lease
 payments are based on the lapse of time but include, in some cases, payments
 for operating expenses and property taxes.  There are no purchase options on
 real estate leases at  this time, but  most real estate  leases have one  or
 more renewal options.  Certain leases on  real estate are subject to  annual
 escalations for increases in operating expenses and property taxes.

 As of June 30, 2006, net future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable
 terms are as follows:

             Years Ending June 30,   Real Estate Leases
             ---------------------   ------------------
             2007                               $ 4,760
             2008                                 4,154
             2009                                 3,248
             2010                                 2,293
             2011                                 1,195
             Thereafter                              40
                                                 ------
             Total                              $15,690
                                                 ======

 Rent expense for all operating leases amounted to $5,372, $4,169, and $4,233
 in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.


 NOTE 7: INCOME TAXES

 The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

                                     Year ended June 30,
                             ----------------------------------
                               2006         2005          2004
                             --------     --------     --------
   Current:
       Federal              $  38,385    $  35,221    $  28,096
       State                    3,469        3,846        3,706

   Deferred:
       Federal                  7,831        4,982        5,306
       State                      460          293          282
                             --------     --------     --------
                            $  50,145    $  44,342    $  37,390
                             ========     ========     ========

 The tax effects of temporary differences related to deferred taxes shown on
 the balance sheets were:

                                                            June 30,
                                                     ----------------------
                                                       2006          2005
                                                     --------      --------
  Deferred tax assets:
    Carryforwards (operating losses)                $     601     $   2,797
    Expense reserves (bad debts, insurance,
      franchise tax and vacation)                       2,531         1,481
    Intangible assets                                   1,070           615
    Other, net                                            802           866
                                                     --------      --------
                                                        5,004         5,759
                                                     --------      --------
  Deferred tax liabilities:
    Accelerated tax depreciation                      (25,856)      (25,336)
    Accelerated tax amortization                      (23,412)      (15,163)
                                                     --------      --------
                                                      (49,268)      (40,499)
                                                     --------      --------
  Net deferred tax liability                        $ (44,264)    $ (34,740)
                                                     ========      ========

 The deferred taxes are classified on the balance sheets as follows:

                                                            June 30,
                                                     ----------------------
                                                       2006          2005
                                                     --------      --------
    Deferred income taxes (current)                 $   3,165     $   2,345
    Deferred income taxes (long-term)                 (47,430)      (37,085)
                                                     --------      --------
                                                    $ (44,265)    $ (34,740)
                                                     ========      ========

 The following analysis reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to
 the effective income tax rates reflected above:

                                                   Year Ended June 30,
                                               ----------------------------
                                               2006        2005        2004
                                               ----        ----        ----
  Computed "expected" tax expense (benefit)    35.0%       35.0%       35.0%
  Increase (reduction) in taxes
    resulting from:
      State income taxes, net of federal
        income tax benefits                     2.0%        2.2%        2.2%
      Research and development credit          -1.0%       -1.5%       -1.5%
      Permanent book/tax differences           -0.5%        0.5%        0.4%
      Other (net)                               0.3%        0.7%        1.4%
                                               ----        ----        ----
                                               35.8%       37.0%       37.5%
                                               ====        ====        ====

 Net operating  loss  carryforwards  of  $5,514  (from  acquisitions)  expire
 through the year 2024.  $3,891 is available  for  use in the Company's  June
 30, 2006 federal income tax returns leaving $1,623 available for  subsequent
 years.  The Company  paid income taxes of  $34,301, $34,891, and $20,314  in
 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

 The Company's federal income tax returns for the years ended June 30, 1999 -
 June 30, 2001 have been examined  by the Internal Revenue  Service  ("IRS").
 The Company appealed certain proposed adjustments.  The  appeal was  settled
 in fiscal 2006.


 NOTE 8: INDUSTRY AND SUPPLIER CONCENTRATIONS

 The Company  sells  its products  to  banks, credit  unions,  and  financial
 institutions throughout the  United States  and generally  does not  require
 collateral.  All  billings to customers  are due net  30 days  from date  of
 billing.  Reserves (which are insignificant  at June 30, 2006 and 2005)  are
 maintained for potential credit losses.

 In addition, the Company purchases most of its computer hardware and related
 maintenance for resale in relation to  installation of JHA software  systems
 from  two suppliers.  There are a limited  number of hardware suppliers  for
 these required materials.  If these relationships were terminated,  it could
 have a significant negative impact on the future operations of the Company.


 NOTE 9: STOCK OPTION PLANS

 The Company currently issues options under two stock option plans: the  1996
 Stock Option  Plan ("1996  SOP") and  the  Non-Qualified Stock  Option  Plan
 ("NSOP").

 1996 SOP

 The 1996  SOP was  adopted by  the  Company on  October  29, 1996,  for  its
 employees.  Terms and vesting periods  of the options are determined  by the
 Compensation Committee  of  the Board  of  Directors when  granted  and  for
 options outstanding include  vesting periods up  to  four years.  Shares  of
 common stock are reserved for issuance under  this plan at the time of  each
 grant, which must be at or above fair market value of the stock at the grant
 date. The options terminate 30 days  after termination of employment,  three
 months after retirement, one year after death  or  10 years after grant.  In
 October 2002, the stockholders approved an  increase in the number of  stock
 options available from 13.0 million to 18.0 million shares.

 On April 11, 2003, the Company granted approximately 3,670,000 stock options
 to approximately  2,100  full  time  employees, or  94%  of  all  full  time
 employees as of that date.  The options were issued at the exercise price of
 $10.84 per share, which represented the fair market value of the stock as of
 that date and vest in two equal portions based on stock price performance or
 on specific dates.  The  two  portions vested and  became fully  exercisable
 when the Company's common stock achieved  a closing market price of 125%  or
 more  and  150%  or  more,  respectively,  of  the  exercise  price  for  10
 consecutive  trading  days.  Such  options  fully vested  during  the  first
 quarter of fiscal 2004.  As of  June 30, 2005,  there were  2,344,533 shares
 available for  future  grants under  the  plan from  the  18,000,000  shares
 approved by the stockholders.

 On June 29, 2005, the Board  of Directors approved the immediate vesting  of
 all stock options previously granted under  the 1996 SOP that had  exercised
 prices higher than the market price on such date (See Note 1).

 NSOP

 The NSOP was adopted by the Company  on September 23, 2005, for its  outside
 directors.  Options are exercisable beginning  six months after grant at  an
 exercise price equal to 100% of  the fair market value  of the stock at  the
 grant date.  The  options terminate upon surrender  of the option, upon  the
 expiration of one year following notification of a deceased optionee, or  10
 years after grant.  700,000  shares of common  stock have been reserved  for
 issuance under this plan with a maximum of 100,000 for each director.  As of
 June 30, 2006, there were 660,000  shares available for future grants  under
 the plan.

 A summary of option plan activity under the plans is as follows:

                               Number of   Weighted Average    Aggregate
                                 Shares     Exercise Price   Intrinsic Value
                              ----------    --------------   ---------------
   Outstanding July 1, 2003   13,300,254      $  13.19
   Granted                       192,167         18.65
   Forfeited                     (98,391)        21.59
   Exercised                  (2,009,694)        10.78
                              ----------    --------------
   Outstanding June 30, 2004  11,384,336         13.64
   Granted                       224,300         18.56
   Forfeited                    (155,127)        19.70
   Exercised                  (1,687,112)         8.43
                              ----------    --------------
   Outstanding June 30, 2005   9,766,397         14.55
   Granted                        40,000         18.47
   Forfeited                    (236,345)        21.23
   Exercised                  (1,869,659)        10.58
                              ----------    --------------
   Outstanding June 30, 2006   7,700,393      $  15.34         $   39,309
                              ==========    ==============   ===============

   Exercisable June 30, 2006   7,582,753      $  15.30         $   39,069
                              ==========    ==============   ===============

 As of June 30, 2006, there was $582 of total unrecognized compensation costs
 related to stock options that have not yet vested.  These costs are expected
 to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.0 years.

 For  the  year ended  June 30, 2005,  306,027 shares  and  9,624 shares were
 reissued from  treasury stock  for shares  exercised in  the employee  stock
 option  plan  and  the   employee  stock  purchase   plan  (See  Note   11),
 respectively.

 For the year ended June 30, 2004,  2,009,694  shares and 37,776 shares  were
 reissued from  treasury stock  for shares  exercised in  the employee  stock
 option  plan  and  the   employee  stock  purchase   plan  (See  Note   11),
 respectively.

 Following is an analysis of stock options outstanding and exercisable as  of
 June 30, 2006:

                                        Weighted-Average
                                            Remaining
     Range of                             Contractural      Weighted-Average
 Exercise Prices           Shares         Life in Years      Exercise Price
 --------------- ------------------------ ------------- ------------------------
                 Outstanding  Exercisable  Outstanding  Outstanding  Exercisable
                 -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
 $ 6.03 - $10.75   1,480,434   1,480,434       2.11       $ 8.19       $ 8.19
 $10.76 - $10.84   1,393,707   1,393,707       6.78        10.84        10.84
 $10.85 - $16.49     233,450     223,013       4.21        12.09        12.04
 $16.50 - $16.88   2,780,510   2,780,510       3.76        16.88        16.88
 $16.89 - $25.65   1,373,292   1,266,089       5.73        21.09        21.35
 $25.66 - $31.00     439,000     439,000       4.81        27.70        27.70
 ---------------  ----------  ----------   -----------  -----------  -----------
 $ 6.03 - $31.00   7,700,393   7,582,753       4.41       $15.34       $15.30
 ===============  ==========  ==========   ===========  ===========  ===========

 Cash received from stock option exercises for the year ended June 30, 2006
 was $19,928.  The income tax benefits from stock option exercises totaled
 $7,260 for the year ended June 30, 2006.

 The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $19,622 and $18,239 for
 the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN

 The Restricted Stock Plan  was adopted by the  Company on November 1,  2005,
 for its employees.  Up to 3,000,000 shares of common stock are available for
 issuance  under  the plan.  Upon issuance,  shares of  restricted stock  are
 subject to forfeiture and to restrictions  which limit the sale or  transfer
 of  the  shares during  the restriction  period.  As  of  June 30, 2006,  no
 restricted stock has been issued.


 NOTE 10: EARNINGS PER SHARE

<TABLE>
 The following table reflects the reconciliation between basic and diluted
 net income per share:

                                                Year Ended June 30,
                                                -------------------
                                        2006                         2005                          2004
                             ---------------------------- ----------------------------  ----------------------------
                                      Weighted                     Weighted                      Weighted
                               Net    Average   Per Share   Net    Average   Per Share    Net    Average   Per Share
                             Income   Shares     Amount   Income   Shares     Amount    Income   Shares     Amount
                             ------   ------      ----    ------   ------      ----     ------   ------     ----
 <S>                        <C>       <C>        <C>     <C>       <C>        <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>
 Basic Income Per Share:
 Net income available to
 common stockholders        $89,924   91,484     $0.98   $75,501   90,891     $0.83    $62,315   89,325    $0.70

 Effect of dilutive
   securities:
 Stock options                    -    2,303     (0.02)        -    2,107      (0.02)        -    2,534    (0.02)
                             ------   ------      ----    ------   ------      ----     ------   ------     ----
 Diluted Income Per Share:
 Net income available to
   common stockholders      $89,924   93,787     $0.96   $75,501   92,998     $0.81    $62,315   91,859    $0.68
                             ======   ======      ====    ======   ======      ====     ======   ======     ====
</TABLE>

 Stock options to  purchase approximately 1,504,811  shares for fiscal  2006,
 1,791,614 shares for fiscal 2005, and 1,758,583 shares for fiscal 2004, were
 not dilutive and therefore, were not included in the computations of diluted
 income per common share amounts.


 NOTE 11:  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

 The Company established an employee stock  purchase plan in 1996.  The  plan
 allows the majority of employees the opportunity to directly purchase shares
 of the  Company.  Purchase  prices  for all  participants are  based on  the
 closing bid price on the last business day of the month.

 The Company has a defined contribution  plans for its employees, the  401(k)
 Retirement Savings Plan (the "Plan").  The  plan is subject to the  Employee
 Retirement Income Security Act of 1975 ("ERISA") as amended. Under the Plan,
 the Company matches  100% of full  time employee contributions  up to 5%  of
 compensation subject to  a maximum of  $5 per year.  Employees  must  be  18
 years of age and be employed for at least  six months.  The Company has  the
 option of making a discretionary contribution;  however, none has been  made
 for  any  of  the  three  most  recent  fiscal  years.  The  total  matching
 contributions for the Plan were $6,530, $5,212, and $4,487 for fiscal  2006,
 2005, and 2004, respectively.

 The Company also  had an Employee  Stock Ownership Plan  (the "ESOP"  Plan),
 which it terminated as of January 1, 2005.  No contribution had been made to
 the ESOP Plan for any of the three most recent fiscal years.


 NOTE 12: BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

 Fiscal 2006 Acquisition:

 On  November 1, 2005,  the Company  acquired  all of  the capital  stock  of
 Profitstar,  Inc.  ("Profitstar").  Profitstar  is  a  leading  provider  of
 asset/liability management,  risk management,  profitability accounting  and
 financial planning software and related services to banks, credit unions and
 other financial institutions.  The  purchase price  for Profitstar,  $19,317
 paid in  cash, was  preliminarily allocated  to the  assets and  liabilities
 acquired based  on  then estimated  fair  values at  the  acquisition  date,
 resulting in  an  allocation  of ($4,905)  to  working  capital,  $1,233  to
 deferred tax liability, $1,871 to  capitalized software, $1,420 to  customer
 relationships, and  $19,698 to  goodwill.  The  acquired goodwill  has  been
 allocated  to  the  bank segment.  On August 15, 2006, the  Company and  the
 former shareholders of  Profitstar, Inc. jointly  made a Section  338(h)(10)
 election  for  this acquisition.  This  election  allows treatment  of  this
 acquisition as an asset acquisition, which  permits the Company to  amortize
 the capitalized  software,  customer  relationships  and  goodwill  for  tax
 purposes.  This election  is  expected  to  increase goodwill by $720 due to
 the elimination  of  previously  recorded  deferred tax liabilities  and  to
 additional consideration paid to the former shareholders of Profitstar, Inc.

 Fiscal 2005 Acquisitions:

 On March 2, 2005,  the Company acquired all  of the membership interests  in
 Tangent Analytics, LLC,  ("Tangent"), a developer  of business  intelligence
 software systems. The purchase price for  Tangent, $4,000 paid in cash,  was
 allocated to the  assets and liabilities  acquired based  on then  estimated
 fair values at the acquisition date, resulting in an allocation of ($140) to
 working capital, $89 to deferred tax liability, $241 to capitalized software
 and $4,128  to goodwill.  Contingent purchase consideration of up to  $4,042
 may be paid  over the next  two years based  upon Tangent's earnings  before
 interest, depreciation, taxes and  amortization.  In  fiscal 2006, $958  was
 paid  to  the  former  members  of  Tangent  as  part  of  this   contingent
 consideration.  This amount was included in goodwill at  June 30, 2006.  The
 acquired goodwill has been allocated to  the bank segment and is  deductible
 for federal income tax.

 Effective January 1, 2005,  the  Company  acquired all  of  the  membership
 interests in RPM Intelligence, LLC, doing business as Stratika ("Stratika").
 Stratika provides customer and product profitability solutions for financial
 institutions.  The purchase  price  for Stratika, $6,241  paid in cash,  was
 allocated to the  assets and liabilities  acquired based  on then  estimated
 fair values at  the acquisition date,  resulting in an  allocation of $9  to
 working capital,  $156  to  deferred  tax  liability,  $422  to  capitalized
 software and $5,963 to goodwill.  Contingent purchase consideration of up to
 $9,752 may be  paid over the  next two years  based upon  the net  operating
 income of Stratika.  In fiscal 2006, $248 was paid to the former members  of
 Stratika as part of this contingent consideration.  This amount was included
 in goodwill  at June 30, 2006.  The acquired goodwill has been allocated  to
 the bank segment and is deductible for federal income tax.

 On December 17, 2004, the Company acquired certain assets of  SERSynergy[TM]
 ("Synergy"), a division of SER Solutions,  Inc.  Synergy is a market  leader
 for intelligent document management for financial institutions. The purchase
 price for Synergy,  $34,466 paid in  cash, was allocated  to the assets  and
 liabilities acquired based on then estimated fair values at the  acquisition
 date, resulting in  an allocation of  ($3,216) to working  capital, $248  to
 deferred tax liability, $2,541 to  capitalized software, $6,145 to  customer
 relationships, and  $29,243  to  goodwill.  The acquired  goodwill has  been
 allocated to the bank segment and is deductible for federal income tax.

 Effective December 1, 2004,  the Company acquired the  capital stock of  TWS
 Systems, Inc. and three  affiliated  corporations (collectively "TWS").  TWS
 is a leading provider  of image-based item  processing solutions for  credit
 unions. The purchase price for TWS,  $10,885 paid in cash, was allocated  to
 the assets and liabilities acquired, based on then estimated fair values  at
 the acquisition  date,  resulting in  an  allocation of  ($157)  to  working
 capital, 1,759 to  deferred tax liability,  $2,110 to capitalized  software,
 $2,645  to  customer relationships,  and $7,569  to goodwill.  The  acquired
 goodwill has  been  allocated  to  the credit  union  segment  and  is  non-
 deductible for federal income tax.

 On November 23, 2004,  the Company  acquired the capital  stock of  Optinfo,
 Inc. ("Optinfo").  Optinfo is  a leading  provider of  enterprise  exception
 management software and services.  The  purchase price for Optinfo,  $12,927
 paid in  cash and  $2,240 of  vested options  to acquire  common stock,  was
 allocated to the  assets and liabilities  acquired based  on then  estimated
 fair values at the acquisition date,  resulting in an allocation of $705  to
 working capital,  $1,346  to  deferred  tax  asset,  $156  to  deferred  tax
 liability, $421  to capitalized  software,  and  $12,806  to  goodwill.  The
 acquired goodwill  has  been allocated  to the  bank  segment  and  is  non-
 deductible for federal income tax.

 Effective October 1, 2004, the Company acquired the capital stock of Verinex
 Technologies,  Inc.  ("Verinex").  Verinex   is  a  leading  developer   and
 integrator of biometric security solutions.  The purchase price for Verinex,
 $35,000 paid in cash, was allocated  to the assets and liabilities  acquired
 based on then estimated fair values at the acquisition date, resulting in an
 allocation of $574  to working capital,  $1,729 to  deferred tax  liability,
 $464 to capitalized software, $4,208 to customer relationships, and  $31,457
 to goodwill.  The acquired goodwill  has been allocated to the bank  segment
 and is non-deductible for federal income tax.

 Effective October 1, 2004, the  Company acquired Select Payment  Processing,
 Inc. ("SPP")  by merger.  SPP  is a  provider  of an  innovative  electronic
 payment processing solution for financial institutions.  The  purchase price
 for SPP, $12,000 paid in cash,  was allocated to the assets and  liabilities
 acquired based  on  then estimated  fair  values at  the  acquisition  date,
 resulting in an allocation  of $7 to working  capital, $938 to deferred  tax
 asset, $1,729 to deferred  tax liability, $467  to capitalized software  and
 $10,570 to goodwill.  The acquired  goodwill has been allocated to the  bank
 segment and is non-deductible for federal income tax.

 On September 1, 2004,  the Company  acquired Banc  Insurance Services,  Inc.
 ("BIS") in Massachusetts.  BIS is a provider of turnkey outsourced insurance
 agency solutions  for financial institutions.  The  purchase price for  BIS,
 $6,700 paid in cash,  was allocated to the  assets and liabilities  acquired
 based on then estimated fair values at the acquisition date, resulting in an
 allocation of $56  to working capital  and  $6,549 to  goodwill.  Contingent
 purchase consideration may be paid over  the next four years based upon  BIS
 gross revenues which could result in  additional allocations to goodwill  of
 up to $13,181.  In fiscal 2006, $219 was paid to the former owners of BIS as
 part of this agreement.  This amount was  included  in goodwill at June  30,
 2006.  The acquired goodwill has been allocated to  the bank segment and  is
 non-deductible for federal income tax.

 The accompanying consolidated statements of income for the fiscal year ended
 June 30, 2006  and  2005  do  not  include any revenues and expenses related
 to  these  acquisitions  prior  to  the  respective  closing  dates  of each
 acquisition.  The  following  unaudited  pro  forma  consolidated  financial
 information is  presented  as if  these acquisitions  had  occurred  at  the
 beginning of the periods presented.  In addition,  this unaudited pro  forma
 financial information is provided for illustrative purposes only and  should
 not be relied upon as necessarily being indicative of the historical results
 that would have been  obtained if these  acquisitions had actually  occurred
 during those periods, or the results that may be obtained in the future as a
 result of these acquisitions.

       Pro Forma (unaudited)              Year Ended June 30,
                                          --------------------
                                            2006        2005
                                          --------    --------
       Revenue                           $ 596,305   $ 563,746

       Gross profit                        259,338     237,458
                                          --------    --------

       Net Income                        $  90,398   $  79,495
                                          ========    ========

       Earnings per share - diluted      $    0.96   $    0.85
                                          ========    ========
       Diluted shares                       93,787      92,998
                                          ========    ========

       Earnings per share - basic        $    0.99   $    0.87
                                          ========    ========
       Basic shares                         91,484      90,891
                                          ========    ========

 Fiscal 2004 Acquisitions

 On February 2, 2004, the Company acquired all of the common stock of  Yellow
 Hammer Software, Inc. ("YHS").  The purchase price for YHS, $19,769 paid  in
 cash, was allocated  to the assets  and liabilities acquired  based on  then
 estimated fair values at the acquisition  date, resulting in the  allocation
 of ($637)  to  working capital,  $706  to capitalized  software,  $1,200  to
 customer relationships,  $17,737 to  goodwill and $330 to  trade names.  The
 acquired goodwill was allocated  to the bank  segment and is  non-deductible
 for federal income tax.

 On February 19  and  April 1, 2004, the  Company  acquired  specific  assets
 consisting of a  suite of Automated  Clearing House  payment  products.  The
 purchase price for ACH, $6,100 paid in cash, was allocated as follows: ($39)
 to working  capital, $4,837  to goodwill,  $1,000  to non-compete  which  is
 included in customer relationships, and $304  to  capitalized software.  The
 acquired goodwill was allocated  to the bank  segment and is  non-deductible
 for federal income tax.

 On  May 1, 2004, the Company  acquired all of  the outstanding  stock of  e-
 ClassicSystems,  Inc.  ("e-Classic").  The  purchase  price  for  e-Classic,
 $15,000 paid in cash, was allocated  to the assets and liabilities  acquired
 based on then estimated  fair values at the  acquisition date, resulting  in
 the allocation of ($7) to working  capital, $1,493 to capitalized  software,
 $990 to  customer relationships,  and  $11,383  to  goodwill.  The  acquired
 goodwill was allocated to the bank segment and is non-deductible for federal
 income tax.

 On June 1, 2004, the Company acquired specific assets consisting of a  suite
 of regulatory reporting products. The purchase  price, $8,000 paid in  cash,
 was allocated as follows: ($1,164) to  working capital, $4,629 to  goodwill,
 $3,852 to  customer relationships  and $690  to  capitalized  software.  The
 acquired goodwill was allocated  to the bank segment  and is deductible  for
 federal income tax.


 NOTE 13: BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

 The Company  is  a leading  provider  of integrated  computer  systems  that
 perform  data  processing   (available  for  in-house   or  service   bureau
 installations) for banks and  credit unions.  The  Company's operations  are
 classified into two  business segments: bank  systems and services  ("Bank")
 and  credit  union  systems  and  services  ("Credit  Union").  The  Company
 evaluates the performance of  its segments and  allocates resources to  them
 based  on  various  factors,  including  prospects  for  growth,  return  on
 investment, and return on revenue.

                                         For the Year Ended June 30, 2006
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                        Bank       Credit Union      Total
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
 REVENUE
   License                          $    66,165    $    17,849    $    84,014
   Support and service                  354,210         71,451        425,661
   Hardware                              62,511         20,019         82,530
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
           Total                        482,886        109,319        592,205
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license                        1,671          1,046          2,717
   Cost of support and service          221,300         51,083        272,383
   Cost of hardware                      45,098         15,560         60,658
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
           Total                        268,069         67,689        335,758
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------

 GROSS PROFIT                       $   214,817    $    41,630    $   256,447
                                     ==========     ==========     ==========


                                         For the Year Ended June 30, 2005
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                        Bank       Credit Union      Total
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
 REVENUE
   License                          $    53,563    $    28,811    $    82,374
   Support and service                  305,696         58,380        364,076
   Hardware                              69,436         19,977         89,413
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
           Total                        428,695        107,168        535,863
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license                        2,402          3,145          5,547
   Cost of support and service          196,140         47,957        244,097
   Cost of hardware                      48,361         15,408         63,769
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
           Total                        246,903         66,510        313,413
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------

 GROSS PROFIT                       $   181,792    $    40,658    $   222,450
                                     ==========     ==========     ==========


                                         For the Year Ended June 30, 2004
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                        Bank       Credit Union      Total
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
 REVENUE
   License                          $    38,338    $    24,255    $    62,593
   Support and service                  268,249         43,038        311,287
   Hardware                              75,497         18,038         93,535
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
           Total                        382,084         85,331        467,415
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license                        2,444          2,294          4,738
   Cost of support and service          171,359         36,371        207,730
   Cost of hardware                      53,635         13,334         66,969
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------
           Total                        227,438         51,999        279,437
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------

 GROSS PROFIT                       $   154,646    $    33,332    $   187,978
                                     ==========     ==========     ==========


                                              For the Year Ended June 30,
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             2006         2005         2004
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Depreciation expense, net
 Bank systems and services               $   30,818   $   27,248   $   25,970
 Credit Unions systems and services           2,624        2,547          820
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Total                                   $   33,442   $   29,795   $   26,790
                                          =========    =========    =========
 Amortization expense, net
 Bank systems and services               $    8,421   $    7,356   $    5,301
 Credit Unions systems and services           1,911        1,760        1,449
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Total                                   $   10,332   $    9,116   $    6,750
                                          =========    =========    =========
 Capital expenditures, net
 Bank systems and services               $   43,681   $   49,360   $   23,505
 Credit Unions systems and services           1,715        8,686       25,636
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
 Total                                   $   45,396   $   58,046   $   49,141
                                          =========    =========    =========


                                        For the Year Ended June 30,
                                        ---------------------------
                                             2006         2005
                                          ---------    ---------
 Property and equipment, net
 Bank systems and services               $  217,438   $  208,541
 Credit Unions systems and services          34,194       34,650
                                          ---------    ---------
 Total                                   $  251,632   $  243,191
                                          =========    =========
 Identified intangible assets, net
 Bank systems and services               $  271,259      241,054
 Credit Unions systems and services          52,290       52,334
                                          ---------    ---------
 Total                                   $  323,549   $  293,388
                                          =========    =========

 The Company has not disclosed any  additional asset information by  segment,
 as the  information  is  not produced  internally  and  its  preparation  is
 impracticable.


 NOTE 14:  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

 On August 24, 2006,  the Company's Board of  Directors declared a  quarterly
 cash dividend of $.055 per share  of common stock, payable on  September 22,
 2006, to shareholders of record on September 8, 2006.

 Also on  August 24, 2006,  the Company's  Board of  Directors increased  its
 stock repurchase authorization  by 5.0  million shares,  bringing the  total
 authorized for repurchase since  2001 to 13.0 million  shares.  Through  the
 date of this increase, the Company has repurchased approximately 5.9 million
 shares under these authorizations, leaving approximately 7.1 million  shares
 authorized for future repurchases.

<TABLE>

 QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

                                        For the Year Ended June 30, 2006
                                   Quarter 1  Quarter 2  Quarter 3  Quarter 4    Total
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
 <S>                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
 REVENUE
   License                         $ 16,908   $ 20,836   $ 20,566   $ 25,704   $ 84,014
   Support and service               99,401    106,524    106,083    113,653    425,661
   Hardware                          20,674     20,057     18,846     22,953     82,530
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                          136,983    147,417    145,495    162,310    592,205
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license                      851      1,061        222        583      2,717
   Cost of support and service       64,237     66,356     67,962     73,828    272,383
   Cost of hardware                  15,340     14,517     13,629     17,172     60,658
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                           80,428     81,934     81,813     91,583    335,758
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 GROSS PROFIT                        56,555     65,483     63,682     70,727    256,447
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 OPERATING EXPENSES
   Selling and marketing             11,440     12,300     12,292     13,975     50,007
   Research and development           6,749      8,003      8,435      8,687     31,874
   General and administrative         7,805     11,130      8,239      8,035     35,209
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                           25,994     31,433     28,966     30,697    117,090
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 OPERATING INCOME                    30,561     34,050     34,716     40,030    139,357

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)
   Interest income                      443        425        731        467      2,066
   Interest expense                    (175)      (132)      (590)      (458)    (1,355)
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                              268        293        141          9        711
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES          30,829     34,343     34,857     40,039    140,068

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES          11,407     12,707     11,397     14,634     50,145
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
 NET INCOME                        $ 19,422   $ 21,636   $ 23,460   $ 25,405   $ 89,923
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======

 Diluted net income per share      $   0.21   $   0.23   $   0.25   $   0.27   $   0.96
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
 Diluted weighted average shares
   outstanding                       93,998     93,637     94,390     93,124   $ 93,787
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======

 Basic net income per share        $   0.21   $   0.24   $   0.26   $   0.28   $   0.98
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
 Basic weighted average shares
   outstanding                       91,562     91,352     91,952     91,068     91,484
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>


 QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

                                        For the Year Ended June 30, 2005
                                   Quarter 1  Quarter 2  Quarter 3  Quarter 4    Total
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
 <S>                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
 REVENUE
   License                         $ 19,551   $ 22,148   $ 20,943   $ 19,732   $ 82,374
   Support and service               83,648     87,726     92,509    100,193    364,076
   Hardware                          20,897     26,086     20,930     21,500     89,413
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                          124,096    135,960    134,382    141,425    535,863
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
 COST OF SALES
   Cost of license                    1,609      1,734      1,085      1,119      5,547
   Cost of support and service       56,030     60,946     61,436     65,685    244,097
   Cost of hardware                  15,895     18,531     14,584     14,759     63,769
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                           73,534     81,211     77,105     81,563    313,413
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 GROSS PROFIT                        50,562     54,749     57,277     59,862    222,450
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 OPERATING EXPENSES
   Selling and marketing             10,732     11,920     11,598     12,380     46,630
   Research and development           6,142      6,741      7,738      7,043     27,664
   General and administrative         7,465      8,127      6,915      6,580     29,087
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                           24,339     26,788     26,251     26,003    103,381
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 OPERATING INCOME                    26,223     27,961     31,026     33,859    119,069

 INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE)
   Interest income                      459        359        171        173      1,162
   Interest expense                      (3)       (14)      (110)      (261)      (388)
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
     Total                              456        345         61        (88)       774
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES          26,679     28,306     31,087     33,771    119,843

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES          10,005     10,614     11,658     12,065     44,342
                                    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
 NET INCOME                        $ 16,674   $ 17,692   $ 19,429   $ 21,706   $ 75,501
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======

 Diluted net income per share      $   0.18   $   0.19   $   0.21   $   0.23   $   0.81
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
 Diluted weighted average shares
   outstanding                       92,485     92,957     93,421     93,127     92,998
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======

 Basic net income per share        $   0.18   $   0.20   $   0.21   $   0.24   $   0.83
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
 Basic weighted average shares
   outstanding                       90,286     90,650     91,212     91,414     90,891
                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

 Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosures

 None.


 Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures

 As of the end of the period covered by  this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  an
 evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the  participation
 of our management, including our Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and
 Chief Financial  Officer  (CFO), of  the  effectiveness of  the  design  and
 operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
 Rules 13a-15  and  15d-15.  Based  upon that  evaluation,  the CEO  and  CFO
 concluded that our  disclosure  controls  and procedures  are  effective  in
 timely alerting  them  to  material  information  relating  to  the  Company
 (including our consolidated  subsidiaries) required  to  be included in  our
 periodic SEC filings.

 The  Management's  Report  on  Internal  Control  over  Financial  Reporting
 required  by  this  Item  9A  is  in  Item  8,  "Financial  Statements   and
 Supplementary Data."  Our independent registered accounting firm, Deloitte &
 Touche LLP, audited management's  assessment and independently assessed  the
 effectiveness of the  Company's internal control  over financial  reporting.
 Deloitte &  Touche LLP  has issued  an  attestation report  concurring  with
 management's assessment, which is included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

 During the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2006, there has been no change  in
 internal control over financial reporting  that has materially affected,  or
 is  reasonably  likely  to  affect,  the  Company's  internal  control  over
 financial reporting.

 Attached as Exhibits 31.1  and 31.2 to this  Annual Report on Form 10-K  are
 certifications of the  CEO and the  CFO, which are  required in accord  with
 Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).  This
 Controls and  Procedures section  includes  the information  concerning  the
 controls evaluation referred to in the certifications and it should be  read
 in conjunction with the certifications.


 Item 9B.  Other Information

 None.


                                   PART III

 Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

 See the information under the  captions "Election of Directors",  "Corporate
 Governance", "Audit Committee Report",  "Executive Officers and  Significant
 Employees" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance"  in
 the Company's definitive  Proxy Statement  which is  incorporated herein  by
 reference.*


 Item 11.  Executive Compensation

 See the information under  captions "Executive Compensation",  "Compensation
 Committee Report", "Corporate Governance"  and "Company Performance" in  the
 Company's  definitive  Proxy  Statement  which  is  incorporated  herein  by
 reference.*


 Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
           Related Stockholder Matters

 See  the  information  under  the  captions  "Stock  Ownership  of   Certain
 Stockholders" and "Equity  Compensation Plan Information"  in the  Company's
 definitive Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

 See the information  under the  caption "Certain  Relationships and  Related
 Transactions"  in  the  Company's   definitive  Proxy  Statement  which   is
 incorporated herein by reference.*


 Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

 See  the  information  under  the  captions  "Audit  Committee  Report"  and
 "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in the Company's  definitive
 Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*

 *Incorporated by reference pursuant to  Rule 12b-23 and General  Instruction
 G(3) to Form 10-K.


                                   PART IV

 Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

 (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Report:

 (1)  The following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and  its
 subsidiaries and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 thereon appear under Item 8 of this Report:

      - Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

      - Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended June 30, 2006,
        2005 and 2004

      - Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2006 and 2005

      - Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the
        Years Ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004

      - Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended June 30,
        2006, 2005 and 2004

      - Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

 (2) The following Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Report
 appear under Item 8 of this Report:

      There are no schedules included because they are not applicable or  the
      required information is shown in the Consolidated Financial  Statements
      or Notes thereto.

 (3) All exhibits not  followed herewith are incorporated  by reference to  a
 prior filing as indicated, pursuant to Rule 12b-32:


  Index to Exhibits
  -----------------
    Exhibit No.         Description
    -----------         -----------
      3.1.7     Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation, attached as Exhibit
                3.1.7 to the Company's Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for the
                Year ended June 30, 2003.

      3.2.1     Amended  and  Restated  Bylaws,  attached as Exhibit A to the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended
                March 31, 1996.

      10.1      The Company's  1987  Stock  Option Plan,  as  amended  as  of
                October 27, 1992, attached as  Exhibit 19.1 to the  Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September
                30, 1992.

      10.3      The Company's 1995 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan,  attached
                as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form  10-K
                for the Year Ended June 30, 1996.

      10.8      Form of Indemnity Agreement which has been entered into as of
                August  27,  1996,  between  the  Company  and  each  of  its
                Directors and Executive Officers, attached as Exhibit 10.8 to
                the Company's Annual Report on Form  10-K for the Year  Ended
                June 30, 1996.

      10.9      The Company's  1996 Stock  Option Plan,  attached as  Exhibit
                10.9 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year
                Ended June 30, 1997.

      10.18     Stock Purchase  Agreement  with  Verinex  Technologies,  Inc.
                dated  October 1, 2004  attached  as  Exhibit  10.18  to  the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended
                September 30, 2004.

      10.19     Asset  Purchase  Agreement  with  SER  Systems, Inc. and  SER
                Solutions, Inc. dated  December 17, 2004 attached as  Exhibit
                10.19 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for  the
                Quarter ended December 31, 2004.

      10.20     Credit Agreement with Wachovia Bank,  National Association as
                Administrative  Agent,  attached  as  Exhibit  10.20  to  the
                Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 21, 2005.

      10.21     Amendment to the Company's 1996 Stock  Option  Plan, attached
                as Exhibit 10.1 to  the Company's Current Report  on Form 8-K
                filed July 5, 2005.

      10.22     2006  Executive  Bonus  Plan,  attached  as Exhibit 10.22  to
                the Company's Current Report on  Form 8-K filed September  2,
                2005.

      10.23     2006 General Manager Bonus Plan, attached as Exhibit 10.23 to
                the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K  filed  September 2,
                2005.

      10.24     Form of Termination Benefits Agreement,  attached  as Exhibit
                10.24  to  the Company's  Current Report  on Form  8-K  filed
                September 2, 2005.

      10.25     2007 Executive Bonus Plan, attached as Exhibit 10.25  to  the
                Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 5, 2006.

      10.26     2007 General  Manager Bonus  Plan, attached  as Exhibit 10.26
                to  the  Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September
                5, 2006.

      10.27     The Company's Restricted Stock Plan, attached hereto.

      10.28     The  Company's   2005   Non-Qualified   Stock   Option  Plan,
                originally attached  as  Exhibit  B to  the  Company's  Proxy
                Statement filed October 4, 2005, also attached hereto.

      21.1      List of the Company's subsidiaries.

      23.1      Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

      32.1      Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

      32.2      Certification of Chief Financial Officer.

      32.3      Written Statement  of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to
                18 U.S.C. Section 1350.

      32.4      Written Statement  of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to
                18 U.S.C. Section 1350.

<PAGE>

 SIGNATURES
 ----------

 Pursuant to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the  Securities
 Exchange Act  of 1934,  the Registrant  has duly  caused this  report to  be
 signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this 12th
 day of September, 2006.

                   JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC., Registrant

                          By  /s/ John F. Prim
                          -----------------------
                          John F. Prim
                          -----------------------
                          Chief Executive Officer
                          -----------------------

 Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
 report has  been signed  below by  the following  persons on  behalf of  the
 registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

        Signature                   Capacity                     Date
        ---------                   --------                     ----

   /s/ Michael E. Henry    Chairman of the Board and       September 12, 2006
   ----------------------  Director
   Michael E. Henry

   /s/ John F. Prim        Chief Executive Officer         September 12, 2006
   ----------------------
   John F. Prim

   /s/ Kevin D. Williams   Chief Financial Officer         September 12, 2006
   ----------------------  and Treasurer (Principal
   Kevin D. Williams       Accounting Officer)

   /s/ John W. Henry       Vice Chairman, Senior Vice      September 12, 2006
   ----------------------  President and Director
   John W. Henry

   /s/ Jerry D. Hall       Executive Vice President and    September 12, 2006
   ----------------------  Director
   Jerry D. Hall

   /s/ Joseph J. Maliekel  Director                        September 12, 2006
   ----------------------
   Joseph J. Maliekel

   /s/ James J. Ellis      Director                        September 12, 2006
   ----------------------
   James J. Ellis

   /s/ Craig R. Curry      Director                        September 12, 2006
   ----------------------
   Craig R. Curry

   /s/ Wesley A. Brown     Director                        September 12, 2006
   ----------------------
   Wesley A. Brown


 [ Exhibits are omitted, but are available upon request directed to  Kevin D.
 Williams, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, at the address set forth on
 the cover  page and  are also  available  in the  Form  10-K posted  at  our
 investor relations website, www.jackhenry.com/ir/.]
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
