 10-Q 1 phm0331201610-q.htm FORM 10-Q Q1, 2016     10-Q ______________________________________________________________________________________________________UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C. 20549FORM 10-Q[X] QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016 or[   ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934Commission File Number 1-9804 PULTEGROUP, INC.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) MICHIGAN 38-2766606(State or other jurisdiction ofincorporation or organization) (I.R.S. EmployerIdentification No.)3350 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 150Atlanta, Georgia 30326(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (404) 978-6400Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    YES  [X]   NO  [  ]Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    YES  [X]   NO  [  ]Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):Large accelerated filer  [X]  Accelerated filer  [  ]  Non-accelerated filer [  ]    Smaller reporting company [  ]Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  YES [  ]  NO  [X]Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of April 15, 2016:  346,032,239 ______________________________________________________________________________________________________1PULTEGROUP, INC.INDEX  PageNo.PART IFINANCIAL INFORMATION    Item 1Financial Statements     Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 3    Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015  4    Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 5    Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 6    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 7    Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 8   Item 2Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28   Item 3Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40   Item 4Controls and Procedures 42   PART IIOTHER INFORMATION 42   Item 2Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 42   Item 6Exhibits 43    Signatures 44  2PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATIONItem 1.      Financial StatementsPULTEGROUP, INC.CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS($000 s omitted) Note:  The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2015 has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements.See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(000 s omitted, except per share data)(Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME(000 s omitted)(Unaudited)See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY(000's omitted, except per share data)(Unaudited)See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS($000 s omitted)(Unaudited)See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 7PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)1.    Basis of presentationPulteGroup, Inc. is one of the largest homebuilders in the United States ("U.S."), and our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol  PHM .  Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "PulteGroup", the "Company", "we", "us", and "our" used herein refer to PulteGroup, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  While our subsidiaries engage primarily in the homebuilding business, we also have mortgage banking operations, conducted principally through Pulte Mortgage LLC ( Pulte Mortgage ), and title operations.  The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.  Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.  In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal, recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.  Operating results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year.  These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.Business acquisitionWe acquired substantially all of the assets of JW Homes ("Wieland") in January 2016, for approximately $430 million in cash and the assumption of certain payables related to such assets.  The acquired net assets were located in Atlanta, Charleston, Charlotte, Nashville, and Raleigh, and included approximately 7,000 lots, including 375 homes in inventory, and control of approximately 1,300 lots through land option contracts.  We also assumed a sales order backlog of 317 homes.  The acquired net assets were recorded at their estimated fair values and provisionally resulted in goodwill of $38.3 million and separately identifiable intangible assets of $18.0 million comprised of the John Wieland Homes and Neighborhoods tradename, which is being amortized over a 20-year life.  The acquisition of these assets was not material to our results of operations or financial condition.Use of estimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.ReclassificationsCertain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, including the adoption in January 2016 of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-03,  Interest - Imputation of Interest,  which changes the presentation of debt issuance costs in the balance sheet from an asset to a direct reduction of the carrying amount of the related debt. The adoption of this guidance resulted in the reclassification of applicable unamortized debt issuance costs from other assets to senior notes and term loan. See Note 4.Subsequent eventsWe evaluated subsequent events up until the time the financial statements were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 8PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Other expense (income), netOther expense (income), net consists of the following ($000 s omitted): Earnings per shareBasic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders (the  Numerator ) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding, adjusted for unvested shares (the  Denominator ) for the period.  Computing diluted earnings per share is similar to computing basic earnings per share, except that the Denominator is increased to include the dilutive effects of stock options, unvested restricted shares and restricted share units, and other potentially dilutive instruments.  Any stock options that have an exercise price greater than the average market price are considered to be anti-dilutive and are excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.  Our diluted earnings per share calculation excluded 2.3 million and 4.8 million potentially dilutive instruments, including stock options, unvested restricted shares and restricted share units for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.    In accordance with ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share", the two-class method determines earnings per share for each class of common stock and participating securities according to an earnings allocation formula that adjusts the Numerator for dividends or dividend equivalents and participation rights in undistributed earnings.  Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are participating securities and, therefore, are included in computing earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method.  Our outstanding restricted share awards, restricted share units, and deferred shares are considered participating securities.  The following table presents the earnings per common share (000's omitted, except per share data): 9PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Residential mortgage loans available-for-saleSubstantially all of the loans originated by us are sold in the secondary mortgage market within a short period of time after origination, generally within 30 days.  At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $290.6 million and $442.7 million, respectively, and an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $279.4 million and $429.6 million, respectively.  The net gain resulting from changes in fair value of these loans totaled $1.0 million and $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  These changes in fair value were substantially offset by changes in fair value of the corresponding hedging instruments.  Net gains from the sale of mortgages were $21.5 million and $16.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.Derivative instruments and hedging activitiesWe are party to interest rate lock commitments with customers resulting from our mortgage origination operations. At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $257.3 million and $208.2 million, respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment. We are also party to forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities, which are commitments to either purchase or sell a specified financial instrument at a specified future date for a specified price.  Forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities are the predominant derivative financial instruments we use to minimize market risk during the period from the time we execute an interest rate lock until the time the loan is sold to an investor.  We also use whole loan investor commitments, which are obligations of the investor to buy loans at a specified price within a specified time period.  At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had unexpired forward contracts of $469.7 million and $525.0 million, respectively, and whole loan investor commitments of $38.0 million and $77.6 million, respectively.  Changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and other derivative financial instruments are recognized in Financial Services revenues, and the fair values are reflected in other assets or other liabilities, as applicable. 10PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)There are no credit-risk-related contingent features within our derivative agreements, and counterparty risk is considered minimal.  Gains and losses on interest rate lock commitments and residential mortgage loans available-for-sale are substantially offset by corresponding gains or losses on forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments.  We are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 60 days. The fair values of derivative instruments and their locations in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are summarized below ($000 s omitted): New accounting pronouncementsIn May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").  The standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires revenue to be recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.  In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date", which delayed the effective date by one year.  As a result, the standard is effective for us for annual and interim periods beginning January 1, 2018 and allows for full retrospective or modified retrospective methods of adoption.  We are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our financial statements.In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15,  Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern  ( ASU 2014-15 ), which requires management to evaluate, at each annual and interim reporting period, whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity s ability to continue as a going concern and provide related disclosures.  ASU 2014-15 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning January 1, 2017 and is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" ("ASU 2016-02"), which amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and early adoption is permitted.  ASU 2016-02 requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief.  We are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our financial statements.In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting" ("ASU 2019-09"), which includes multiple amendments intended to simplify aspects of share-based payment accounting. ASU 2016-09 will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. Amendments to the timing of when excess tax benefits are recognized, minimum statutory withholding requirements, and forfeitures will be applied using a modified retrospective transition method through a cumulative-effect adjustment to equity as of the beginning of the period of adoption. Amendments to the presentation of employee taxes paid on the statement of cash flows when an employer withholds shares to meet the minimum statutory withholding requirement will be applied retrospectively, and amendments requiring the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies in the income statement are to be applied prospectively.   We are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our financial statements. 11PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)2.    InventoryMajor components of inventory were as follows ($000 s omitted): We capitalize interest cost into inventory during the active development and construction of our communities. In all periods presented, we capitalized all Homebuilding interest costs into inventory because the level of our active inventory exceeded our debt levels.  Information related to interest capitalized into inventory is as follows ($000 s omitted):Land option agreementsWe enter into land option agreements in order to procure land for the construction of homes in the future.  Pursuant to these land option agreements, we generally provide a deposit to the seller as consideration for the right to purchase land at different times in the future, usually at predetermined prices.  Such contracts enable us to defer acquiring portions of properties owned by third parties or unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether and when to exercise our option, which reduces our financial risks associated with long-term land holdings.  Option deposits and pre-acquisition costs (such as environmental testing, surveys, engineering, and entitlement costs) are capitalized if the costs are directly identifiable with the land under option, the costs would be capitalized if we owned the land, and acquisition of the property is probable.  Such costs are reflected in other assets and are reclassified to inventory upon taking title to the land.  We write off deposits and pre-acquisition costs when it becomes probable that we will not go forward with the project or recover the capitalized costs.  Such decisions take into consideration changes in local market conditions, the timing of required land purchases, the availability and best use of necessary incremental capital, and other factors.  We record any such write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs within other expense, net.If an entity holding the land under option is a variable interest entity ("VIE"), our deposit represents a variable interest in that entity.  No VIEs required consolidation at either March 31, 2016 or December 31, 2015 because we determined that we were not the VIE's primary beneficiary.  Our maximum exposure to loss related to these VIEs is generally limited to our deposits and pre-acquisition costs under the land option agreements.  The following provides a summary of our interests in land option agreements as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 ($000 s omitted):  12PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)3.    Segment informationOur Homebuilding operations are engaged in the acquisition and development of land primarily for residential purposes within the U.S. and the construction of housing on such land.  For reporting purposes, our Homebuilding operations are aggregated into six reportable segments:  Northeast: Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, VirginiaSoutheast: Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, TennesseeFlorida: FloridaMidwest: Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, OhioTexas: TexasWest: Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico, WashingtonWe also have a reportable segment for our Financial Services operations, which consist principally of mortgage banking and title operations and operate generally in the same markets as the Homebuilding segments. (a)Southeast includes the acquisition in January 2016 of substantially all of the assets of Wieland (see Note 1).(b)Other homebuilding includes the amortization of intangible assets, amortization of capitalized interest, and other items not allocated to the operating segments. 13PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)  (a)Southeast includes the acquisition in January 2016 of substantially all of the assets of Wieland (see Note 1).(b)Other homebuilding primarily includes cash and equivalents, capitalized interest, intangibles, deferred tax assets, and other corporate items that are not allocated to the operating segments.  14PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)4.   DebtSenior notesOur senior notes are summarized as follows ($000 s omitted):(a)Redeemable prior to maturity; guaranteed on a senior basis by certain wholly-owned subsidiaries.(b)Not redeemable prior to maturity; guaranteed on a senior basis by certain wholly-owned subsidiaries.(c)The carrying value of senior notes reflects the impact of premiums, discounts, and issuance costs that are amortized to interest cost over the respective terms of the senior notes.  As discussed in Note 1, we adopted ASU 2015-03 in January 2016. We applied the new guidance retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements to conform to the 2016 presentation. As a result, $10.3 million of debt issuance costs at December 31, 2015, were reclassified from other assets to a reduction in senior notes. On February 25, 2016, we issued $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes, consisting of $300 million of 4.25% senior notes due March 1, 2021, and $700 million of 5.50% senior notes due March 1, 2026.  Similar to the other senior note series reflected in the above table, these notes are irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior basis, jointly and severally, by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.  The notes and the guarantees are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with the existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company and each of the guarantors, respectively. The notes are redeemable at our option at any time up to the date of maturity.Revolving credit facilityWe maintain a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the  Revolving Credit Facility ) that matures in July 2017.  The Revolving Credit Facility provides for maximum borrowings of $500.0 million and contains an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the Revolving Credit Facility to $1.0 billion, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments.  The Revolving Credit Facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit that reduce available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility and may total no more than the greater of: (i) 50% of the size of the facility or (ii) $300.0 million in the aggregate.  The interest rate on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility may be based on either the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or a base rate plus an applicable margin, as defined.  We had no borrowings outstanding and $213.4 million and $191.3 million of letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum Tangible Net Worth, a minimum Interest Coverage Ratio, and a maximum Debt-to-Capitalization Ratio (as each term is defined in the Revolving Credit Facility).  As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all covenants.  Outstanding balances under the Revolving Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. 15PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Term loanOn September 30, 2015, we entered into a senior unsecured $500.0 million term loan agreement (the  Term Loan ) with an initial maturity date of January 3, 2017, which can be extended at our option up to 12 months.  The interest rate on the Term Loan may be based on either LIBOR or a base rate plus an applicable margin, as defined.  Borrowings are interest only with the principal being due at the maturity date and are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.  The Term Loan contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for loans of this type, including the same financial covenants as under the Revolving Credit Facility.  As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all covenants.Limited recourse notes payableCertain of our local homebuilding operations maintain limited recourse collateralized notes payable with third parties that totaled $36.3 million at March 31, 2016 and $35.3 million at December 31, 2015.  These notes have maturities ranging up to six years, are collateralized by the land positions to which they relate, have no recourse to any other assets, and are classified within accrued and other liabilities.  The stated interest rates on these notes range up to 5.00%.Pulte MortgagePulte Mortgage maintains a master repurchase agreement (the  Repurchase Agreement ) with third party lenders that expires in September 2016.  The Repurchase Agreement's borrowing capacity was $310.0 million through January 18, 2016, after which it decreased to $175.0 million through July 28, 2016, after which it increases to $200.0 million.  The purpose for the changes in capacity during the term of the agreement is to lower associated fees during seasonally lower volume periods of mortgage origination activity.  Borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement are secured by residential mortgage loans available-for-sale.  The Repurchase Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants applicable to Pulte Mortgage, including quantitative thresholds related to net worth, net income, and liquidity.  Pulte Mortgage had $118.6 million and $267.9 million outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, and was in compliance with all of its covenants and requirements as of such dates. 16PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)5.    Shareholders  equityDuring the three months ended March 31, 2016, we declared cash dividends totaling $31.5 million and repurchased 3.1 million shares under our repurchase authorization for a total of $50.0 million.  At March 31, 2016, we had remaining authorization to repurchase $554.8 million of common shares.  During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we declared cash dividends totaling $29.4 million and repurchased 4.6 million shares under our repurchase authorization for a total of $99.6 million.Under our share-based compensation plans, we accept shares as payment under certain conditions related to stock option exercises and vesting of shares, generally related to the payment of minimum tax obligations.  During the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, employees surrendered shares valued at $2.7 million and $8.3 million, respectively, under these plans.  Such share transactions are excluded from the above noted share repurchase authorization.6.  Income taxesOur effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was 29.5%, and 42.6%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the current year differed from the federal statutory tax rate primarily due to the favorable resolution of certain state income tax matters.  For the prior year, our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory tax rate primarily due to state income taxes and an adjustment to deferred taxes due to changes in state laws and business operations.  At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, of $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The accounting for deferred taxes is based upon estimates of future results.  Differences between estimated and actual results could result in changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets that could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position.  Changes in existing tax laws could also affect actual tax results and the realization of deferred tax assets over time.  Unrecognized tax benefits represent the difference between tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the benefits recognized for financial statement purposes.  At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had $22.5 million and $39.0 million, respectively, of gross unrecognized tax benefits and $11.8 million and $17.2 million, respectively, of related accrued interest and penalties.  It is reasonably possible within the next twelve months that our gross unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by up to $18.5 million, excluding interest and penalties, primarily due to expirations of certain statutes of limitations and potential settlements.We are currently under examination by the IRS and various state taxing jurisdictions and anticipate finalizing certain examinations within the next twelve months.  The final outcome of these examinations is not yet determinable.  The statutes of limitation for our major tax jurisdictions generally remain open for examination for tax years 2005 to 2016. 17PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)7.  Fair value disclosuresASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,  provides a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  The fair value hierarchy can be summarized as follows: Level 1 Fair value determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2 Fair value determined using significant observable inputs, generally either quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities or quoted prices in markets that are not active.  Level 3 Fair value determined using significant unobservable inputs, such as pricing models, discounted cash flows, or similar techniques.Our assets and liabilities measured or disclosed at fair value are summarized below ($000 s omitted): Fair values for agency residential mortgage loans available-for-sale are determined based on quoted market prices for comparable instruments.  Fair values for non-agency residential mortgage loans available-for-sale are determined based on purchase commitments from whole loan investors and other relevant market information available to management.  Fair values for interest rate lock commitments, including the value of servicing rights, are based on market prices for similar instruments.  Forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities are valued based on market prices for similar instruments.  Fair values for whole loan investor commitments are based on market prices for similar instruments from the specific whole loan investor.Certain assets are required to be recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  The non-recurring fair values included in the above table represent only those assets whose carrying values were adjusted to fair value as of the respective balance sheet dates.The carrying amounts of cash and equivalents, Financial Services debt, the Term Loan, and the Revolving Credit Facility approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature and floating interest rate terms.  The fair values of senior notes are based on quoted market prices, when available.  If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of similar issues.  The carrying value of senior notes was $2.6 billion and $1.6 billion at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. 18PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)8.  Commitments and contingenciesLoan origination liabilitiesOur mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan.  Determining the liabilities for anticipated losses requires a significant level of management judgment.  Given the ongoing volatility in the mortgage industry, changes in values of underlying collateral over time, and other uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates.  Changes in these liabilities were as follows ($000's omitted):Letters of credit and surety bondsIn the normal course of business, we post letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations, as security for certain land option agreements, and under various insurance programs.  The majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure.  We had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $213.4 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2016, and $191.3 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2015.  In the event any such letter of credit or surety bond is drawn, we would be obligated to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit or surety bond.  We do not believe that a material amount, if any, of the letters of credit or surety bonds will be drawn.  Our surety bonds generally do not have stated expiration dates; rather we are released from the surety bonds as the underlying contractual performance is completed.  Because significant construction and development work has been performed related to projects that have not yet received final acceptance by the respective counterparties, the aggregate amount of surety bonds outstanding is in excess of the projected cost of the remaining work to be performed.Litigation and regulatory mattersWe are involved in various litigation and legal claims in the normal course of our business operations, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants.  We are also subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations related to land development activities, house construction standards, sales practices, mortgage lending operations, employment practices, and protection of the environment.  As a result, we are subject to periodic examination or inquiry by various governmental agencies that administer these laws and regulations.We establish liabilities for legal claims and regulatory matters when such matters are both probable of occurring and any potential loss is reasonably estimable.  We accrue for such matters based on the facts and circumstances specific to each matter and revise these estimates as the matters evolve.  In such cases, there may exist an exposure to loss in excess of any amounts currently accrued.  In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of these legal and regulatory matters, we generally cannot predict the ultimate resolution of the pending matters, the related timing, or the eventual loss.   While the outcome of such contingencies cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the resolution of such matters will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.  However, to the extent the liability arising from the ultimate resolution of any matter exceeds the estimates reflected in the recorded reserves relating to such matter, we could incur additional charges that could be significant. 19PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Allowance for warrantiesHome purchasers are provided with a limited warranty against certain building defects, including a one-year comprehensive limited warranty and coverage for certain other aspects of the home s construction and operating systems for periods of up to and in limited instances exceeding 10 years.  We estimate the costs to be incurred under these warranties and record liabilities in the amount of such costs at the time product revenue is recognized.  Factors that affect our warranty liabilities include the number of homes sold, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, and the cost per claim.  We periodically assess the adequacy of the warranty liabilities for each geographic market in which we operate and adjust the amounts as necessary.  Actual warranty costs in the future could differ from the current estimates.  Changes to warranty liabilities were as follows ($000 s omitted):Self-insured risksWe maintain, and require our subcontractors to maintain, general liability insurance coverage.  We also maintain builders' risk, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance coverage.  These insurance policies protect us against a portion of the risk of loss from claims.  However, we retain a significant portion of the overall risk for such claims either through policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries or through our own self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and claims in excess of available insurance policy limits.  Our general liability insurance includes coverage for certain construction defects.  While construction defect claims can relate to a variety of circumstances, the majority of our claims relate to alleged problems with siding, plumbing, foundations and other concrete work, windows, roofing, and heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems.  The availability of general liability insurance for the homebuilding industry and its subcontractors has become increasingly limited, and the insurance policies available require companies to maintain significant per occurrence and aggregate retention levels.  In certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or participate in a project-specific insurance program provided by us.  Policies issued by the captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by us.  This self-insured exposure is limited by reinsurance policies that we purchase.  General liability coverage for the homebuilding industry is complex, and our coverage varies from policy year to policy year.  Our insurance coverage generally requires a per occurrence deductible up to an overall aggregate retention level.  Beginning with the first dollar, amounts paid to satisfy insured claims apply to our per occurrence and aggregate retention obligations.  Any amounts incurred in excess of the occurrence or aggregate retention levels are covered by insurance up to our purchased coverage levels.  Our insurance policies, including the captive insurance subsidiaries' reinsurance policies, are maintained with highly-rated underwriters for whom we believe counterparty default risk is not significant.  At any point in time, we are managing over 1,000 individual claims related to general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance coverage.  We reserve for costs associated with such claims (including expected claims management expenses) on an undiscounted basis at the time revenue is recognized for each home closing and evaluate the recorded liabilities based on actuarial analyses of our historical claims.  The actuarial analyses calculate estimates of the ultimate net cost of all unpaid losses, including estimates for incurred but not reported losses ("IBNR").  IBNR represents losses related to claims incurred but not yet reported plus development on reported claims.Our recorded reserves for all such claims totaled $693.0 million and $692.1 million at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, the vast majority of which relates to general liability claims.  The recorded reserves include loss estimates related to both (i) existing claims and related claim expenses and (ii) IBNR and related claim expenses.  Liabilities related to IBNR and related claim expenses represented approximately 65% of the total general  20PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)liability reserves at both March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015.  The actuarial analyses that determine the IBNR portion of reserves consider a variety of factors, including the frequency and severity of losses, which are based on our historical claims experience supplemented by industry data.  The actuarial analyses of the reserves also consider historical third party recovery rates and claims management expenses.  Housing market conditions have been volatile across most of our markets over the past ten years, and we believe such conditions can affect the frequency and cost of construction defect claims. Additionally, IBNR estimates comprise the majority of our liability and are subject to a high degree of uncertainty due to a variety of factors, including changes in claims reporting and resolution patterns, third party recoveries, insurance industry practices, the regulatory environment, and legal precedent. State regulations vary, but construction defect claims are reported and resolved over an extended period often exceeding ten years. Changes in the frequency and timing of reported claims and estimates of specific claim values can impact the underlying inputs and trends utilized in the actuarial analyses, which could have a material impact on the recorded reserves. Additionally, the amount of insurance coverage available for each policy period also impacts our recorded reserves. Because of the inherent uncertainty in estimating future losses related and the timing of such losses related to these claims, actual costs could differ significantly from estimated costs.  Adjustments to reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs.Costs associated with our insurance programs are classified within selling, general, and administrative expenses.  Changes in these liabilities were as follows ($000's omitted):  In certain instances, we have the ability to recover a portion of our costs under various insurance policies or from subcontractors or other third parties. Estimates of such amounts are recorded when recovery is considered probable. Such receivables are recorded in other assets and totaled $135.8 million and $130.2 million at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The increase in insurance receivables resulted from the continued progression of insured construction defect claims. Given the complexity inherent with resolving construction defect claims in the homebuilding industry as described above, there generally exists a significant lag between our payment of claims and related reimbursements. Additionally, we are the plaintiff in litigation with certain of our insurance carriers relating to a large portion of the insurance receivables balance. We believe collection of these insurance receivables is probable based on the legal merits of our positions, favorable legal rulings received to date, and our long history of collecting significant amounts of insurance reimbursements related to similar claims. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the resolution of such matters will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.9.  Supplemental Guarantor informationAll of our senior notes are guaranteed jointly and severally on a senior basis by certain of our wholly-owned Homebuilding subsidiaries and certain other wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the  Guarantors ).  Such guaranties are full and unconditional.  Our subsidiaries, comprising the Financial Services segment along with certain other subsidiaries (collectively, the "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries"), do not guarantee the senior notes.  In accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, supplemental consolidating financial information of the Company, including such information for the Guarantors, is presented below.  Investments in subsidiaries are presented using the equity method of accounting.  21PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETMARCH 31, 2016 ($000 s omitted) 22PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETDECEMBER 31, 2015 ($000 s omitted) 23PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOMEFor the three months ended March 31, 2016 ($000 s omitted) 24PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOMEFor the three months ended March 31, 2015 ($000 s omitted) 25PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSFor the three months ended March 31, 2016 ($000 s omitted) 26PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSFor the three months ended March 31, 2015 ($000 s omitted) 27Item 2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewIndustry-wide new home sales continue to pace well below historical averages, though improving demand conditions in the overall U.S. housing market continued through the first quarter of 2016.  We remain pleased with the overall demand for new homes, which continues along a sustained, but slow recovery path supported by an improving economy, favorable demographics, ongoing employment and wage gains, low interest rates, a limited supply of new homes, and the gradual release of pent-up demand.  Within this environment, we remain focused on driving additional gains in construction and asset efficiency to deliver higher returns on invested capital.  Consistent with our positive market view and long-term business strategy, we expect to use our capital to support future growth while consistently returning funds to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.We have looked toward 2016 as a year where we would begin adding volume growth to the efficiency gains we have achieved in recent years.  2016 has gotten off to a strong start as prior investments are allowing us to grow the business, as evidenced by net new order dollars increasing 24% in the first quarter, as compared to the prior year, and our backlog increasing by 31% to $3.4 billion as of March 31, 2016, while also continuing to realize strong gross margin performance through our focus on community locations, strategic pricing, and construction efficiencies.   Our new community openings will continue at an elevated level in 2016.  While we have experience opening new communities, starting up new communities can present a challenge in today's environment where entitlement and land development delays are common.  We have grown our investment in the business in a disciplined manner by emphasizing smaller projects and working to shorten our years of land supply while expanding our use of land option agreements when possible.  We have also focused our land investments on closer-in locations where we think demand is more sustainable when the market ultimately moderates.  We have accepted the trade-off of having to pay more for certain land positions where we can be more confident in the future performance.The following is a summary of our operating results by line of business ($000's omitted, except per share data): Homebuilding income before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased compared with the prior year period as the result of higher revenues stemming from increased volume and a higher average selling price.  The revenue increase was partially offset by lower gross margins and higher overhead costs, both of which were partially attributable to the assets acquired from Wieland in January 2016 (see Note 1). Financial Services income before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased compared with the prior year period due to an increase in origination volume combined with higher revenues per loan.  Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was 29.5%, which includes the favorable resolution of certain state income tax matters, compared to 42.6% for the same period in 2015, which reflected an adjustment to deferred taxes due to changes in state laws and business operations. 28Homebuilding OperationsThe following presents selected financial information for our Homebuilding operations ($000 s omitted):(a)Includes the amortization of capitalized interest.(b)Net new orders excludes backlog acquired from Wieland in January 2016.  Net new order dollars represent a composite of new order dollars combined with other movements of the dollars in backlog related to cancellations and change orders. 29Home sale revenuesHome sale revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were higher than the prior year period by $306.1 million.  The 28% increase was attributable to a 9% increase in average selling price and a 17% increase in closings, both of which include the assets acquired from Wieland during the quarter.  Such assets contributed 5% to the growth in revenue, including 3% to the growth in closings and 1% to the increase in average selling price.  Excluding the assets acquired from Wieland, the increase in closings reflects the significant investments we are making in opening new communities.  The higher average selling price reflects an ongoing shift toward move-up buyers, the inclusion of luxury homes offered in Wieland communities, and generally stable market conditions.    Home sale gross margins Home sale gross margins were 21.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to 22.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2015.  The assets acquired from Wieland contributed 80 basis points to this decrease, primarily as the result of required fair value adjustments associated with the acquired homes in production and related lots.  Gross margins remain strong relative to historical levels and reflect a combination of factors, including shifts in community mix, relatively stable pricing conditions, and lower amortized interest costs (1.9% and 2.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively), offset by higher house construction and land costs.  The lower amortized interest costs resulted from the reduction in our outstanding debt in recent years.  We anticipate that our amortized interest costs as a percentage of revenues will remain below 2015 levels for the remainder of 2016, even after consideration of our recently completed offering of senior notes (see Note 4).Land salesWe periodically elect to sell parcels of land to third parties in the event such assets no longer fit into our strategic operating plans or are zoned for commercial or other development.  Land sale revenues and their related gains or losses vary between periods, depending on the timing of land sales and our strategic operating decisions.  Land sales had margin contributions of $0.5 million and $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and  2015, respectively. SG&ASG&A as a percentage of home sale revenues was 13.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared with 14.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The gross dollar amount of our SG&A increased $29.7 million, or 18%, for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. This increase in gross dollar SG&A is in line with the increase in closings and reflects the addition of field resources to manage increasing production volumes.   Additionally, SG&A for the three months ended March 31, 2016 reflects the impact of transaction ($4.0 million) and integration costs associated with the assets acquired from Wieland in January 2016.Equity in earnings of unconsolidated entitiesEquity in earnings of unconsolidated entities was $0.2 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The majority of our unconsolidated entities represent land development joint ventures.  As a result, the timing of income and losses varies between periods depending on the timing of transactions and circumstances specific to each entity. 30Other expense, netOther expense, net includes the following ($000 s omitted):Net new ordersNet new orders increased 10% in units and 24% in dollars for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared with the three months ended March 31, 2015.  The assets acquired from Wieland in January 2016 contributed 3% and 4%, respectively, to this growth.  Excluding the Wieland assets, our growth in net new order units resulted from the higher number of active communities while the growth in net new order dollars was also impacted by the higher average selling price.  The cancellation rate (canceled orders for the period divided by gross new orders for the period) was 13% and 11% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Ending backlog units and dollars, which represent orders for homes that have not yet closed, increased 15% and 31%, respectively, at March 31, 2016 compared with March 31, 2015, as a result of the higher net new order volume.  The growth in backlog dollars was also impacted by the higher average selling price. Homes in productionThe following is a summary of our homes in production at March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015:The number of homes in production at March 31, 2016 was 41% higher than at March 31, 2015 due to a number of factors, including the higher net new order volume and backlog and a decision to purposefully increase the number of unsold homes under construction ("spec homes").  The increase in spec homes reflects our intention to achieve a more even production cycle over the course of 2016 compared with 2015.  Though inventory levels will fluctuate throughout the year, we expect our overall level of spec starts to moderate over the year.  As part of our inventory management strategies, we will continue to maintain reasonable inventory levels relative to demand in each of our markets. 31Controlled lotsThe following is a summary of our lots under control at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015:(a)Southeast includes the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of  Wieland in January 2016 (see Note 1).Of our controlled lots, 102,580 and 95,919 were owned and 43,072 and 42,160 were controlled under land option agreements at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.  While competition for well-positioned land is robust, we continue to pursue strategic land positions that drive appropriate returns on invested capital.  The remaining purchase price under our land option agreements totaled $2.3 billion at March 31, 2016.  These land option agreements, which generally may be canceled at our discretion and in certain cases extend over several years, are secured by deposits and pre-acquisition costs totaling $183.0 million at March 31, 2016, of which $7.6 million is refundable.  Homebuilding Segment OperationsAs of March 31, 2016, we conducted our operations in 48 markets located throughout 25 states.  For reporting purposes, our Homebuilding operations are aggregated into six reportable segments: Northeast:  Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, VirginiaSoutheast:  Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, TennesseeFlorida: FloridaMidwest:  Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, OhioTexas: TexasWest:  Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico, Washington 32The following tables present selected financial information for our reportable Homebuilding segments: (a)Southeast includes the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of  Wieland in January 2016 (see Note 1).(b)Other homebuilding includes the amortization of intangible assets, amortization of capitalized interest, and other items not allocated to the operating segments.  33 (a)Southeast includes the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of  Wieland in January 2016 (see Note 1). 34NortheastFor the first quarter of 2016, Northeast home sale revenues increased 8% compared with the prior year period due to a 2% increase in the average selling price combined with a 6% increase in closings.  The increase in average selling price was mainly in the Northeast Corridor and New England.  The increase in closings occurred mainly in Northeast Corridor, while New England decreased. Net new orders decreased 14%, primarily in New England and Northeast Corridor.SoutheastFor the first quarter of 2016, the Southeast was significantly impacted by the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Wieland in January 2016 (see Note 1).  Southeast home sale revenues increased 58% compared with the prior year as the result of increases in closings and average selling prices of 35% and 17%, respectively.  These increases are largely due to contributions from the assets acquired from Wieland.  Excluding those closings, revenues still increased significantly compared with the prior year, and occurred across all operating divisions.  Income before income taxes decreased 20% as result of transaction ($4.0 million) and integration costs associated with the assets acquired from Wieland. Net new orders increased 12%, primarily due to the assets acquired from Wieland.FloridaFor the first quarter of 2016, Florida home sale revenues increased 33% compared with the prior year period due to a 24% increase in closings combined with a 7% increase in the average selling price. The average selling price increased across all divisions.  Income before income taxes increased due to improved overhead leverage and higher revenues.  Net new orders remained flat overall.MidwestFor the first quarter of 2016, Midwest home sale revenues increased 6% compared with the prior year period due to a 10% increase in average selling price, partially offset by a 3% decrease in closings. The increase in average selling price was concentrated mainly in Michigan, Illinois, and St. Louis while the decrease in closings was attributable primarily to Columbus and Kentucky.  The increased revenues led to an increase in income before income taxes.  Net new orders increased 30% on a 6% increase in active communities. Net new orders increased across all divisions with the exception of Michigan.TexasFor the first quarter of 2016, Texas home sale revenues increased 21% compared with the prior year period due to a 4% increase in closings combined with a 16% increase in the average selling price.  The higher average selling price was broad-based across all divisions, while the increased closings occurred primarily in Dallas.  The increased revenues and closings led to an increase in income before income taxes of 25%.  Net new orders remained flat year over year with an increase in Dallas that resulted primarily from a higher community count offset by softer demand in Houston and San Antonio.WestFor the first quarter of 2016, West home sale revenues increased 32% compared with the prior year period due to a 33% increase in closings, offset by a 1% decrease in average selling price.  The increased closings were mainly in Northern California and Arizona. Income before income taxes increased by 8% due to higher revenues offset by lower gross margins.  Net new orders increased 22% partially due to a 10% increase in active communities. Net new orders increased in all divisions except for small declines in Southern California and New Mexico.  35Financial Services OperationsWe conduct our Financial Services operations, which include mortgage and title operations, through Pulte Mortgage and other subsidiaries.  In originating mortgage loans, we initially use our own funds, including funds available pursuant to credit agreements with third parties.  Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold in the secondary market within a short period of time after origination, generally within 30 days.  We also sell the servicing rights for the loans we originate through fixed price servicing sales contracts to reduce the risks and costs inherent in servicing loans.  This strategy results in owning the loans and related servicing rights for only a short period of time.  Operating as a captive business model primarily targeted to supporting our Homebuilding operations, the business levels of our Financial Services operations are highly correlated to Homebuilding.  Our Homebuilding customers continue to account for substantially all loan production.  We believe that our capture rate, which represents loan originations from our Homebuilding operations as a percentage of total loan opportunities from our Homebuilding operations, excluding cash closings, is an important metric in evaluating the effectiveness of our captive mortgage business model.  The following tables present selected financial information for our Financial Services operations ($000's omitted):               36RevenuesTotal Financial Services revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased 30% compared to the prior year period.  These changes were primarily related to higher loan origination volume resulting from higher volumes in the Homebuilding segment combined with higher revenues per loan, which were attributable to a higher average loan size combined with a modest improvement in loan pricing.  While loan pricing has come under pressure in recent months as industry refinancing volume has receded, the overall pricing environment for new originations remains favorable. Income before income taxesIncome before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased 93% compared to the prior year period.  This increase resulted primarily from the 30% increase in revenues and better overhead leverage as expenses only increased 16%.Income TaxesOur effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was 29.5%, which includes the favorable resolution of certain state income tax matters, compared to 42.6% for the same period in 2015, which reflected an adjustment to deferred taxes due to changes in state laws and business operations.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe finance our land acquisition, development, and construction activities and financial services operations using internally-generated funds supplemented by credit arrangements with third parties and capital market financing.  We routinely monitor current and expected operational requirements and financial market conditions to evaluate accessing other available financing sources, including revolving bank credit and securities offerings, and may determine that modifications to our financing are appropriate.At March 31, 2016, we had unrestricted cash and equivalents of $995.7 million, senior notes of $2.6 billion, and borrowings of $498.8 million under a term loan (net of discounts and issuance costs).  We also had restricted cash balances of $22.4 million.  We follow a diversified investment approach for our cash and equivalents by maintaining such funds with a broad portfolio of banks within our group of relationship banks in high quality, highly liquid, short-term deposits and investments.  We monitor our investments with each bank and do not believe our cash and equivalents are exposed to any material risk of loss.  However, there can be no assurances that losses of principal balance on our cash and equivalents will not occur.Our ratio of debt to total capitalization, excluding our Financial Services debt, was 39.1% at March 31, 2016.Senior unsecured notesOn February 25, 2016, we issued $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes, consisting of $300 million of 4.25% senior notes due March 1, 2021, and $700 million of 5.50% senior notes due March 1, 2026.  The net proceeds from the senior notes will be used to fund the retirement of $465.2 million of our senior notes maturing in May 2016, with the remaining net proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes.Revolving credit facilityWe maintain a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the  Revolving Credit Facility ) that matures in July 2017.  The Revolving Credit Facility provides for maximum borrowings of $500.0 million and contains an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the Revolving Credit Facility to $1.0 billion, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments.  The Revolving Credit Facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit that reduce available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility and may total no more than the greater of: (i) 50% of the size of the facility or (ii) $300.0 million in the aggregate.  The interest rate on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility may be based on either the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or a base rate plus an applicable margin, as defined.  We had no borrowings outstanding and $213.4 million and $191.3 million of letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum Tangible Net Worth, a minimum Interest Coverage Ratio, and a maximum Debt-to-Capitalization Ratio (as each term is defined in the Revolving  37Credit Facility).  As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all covenants.  Outstanding balances under the Revolving Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.Term loanOn September 30, 2015, we entered into a senior unsecured $500.0 million term loan agreement (the  Term Loan ) with an initial maturity date of January 3, 2017, which can be extended at our option up to 12 months.  The interest rate on the Term Loan may be based on either LIBOR or a base rate plus an applicable margin, as defined.  Borrowings are interest only with the principal being due at the maturity date and are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.  The Term Loan contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for loans of this type, including the same financial covenants as under the Revolving Credit Facility.  As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all covenants.Limited recourse notes payableCertain of our local homebuilding operations maintain limited recourse collateralized notes payable with third parties that totaled $36.3 million at March 31, 2016 and $35.3 million at December 31, 2015.  These notes have maturities ranging up to six years, are collateralized by the applicable land positions to which they relate, have no recourse to any other assets, and are classified within accrued and other liabilities.  The stated interest rates on these notes range up to 5.00%.Pulte MortgagePulte Mortgage maintains a master repurchase agreement (the  Repurchase Agreement ) with third party lenders that expires in September 2016.  The Repurchase Agreement's borrowing capacity was $310.0 million through January 18, 2016, after which it decreased to $175.0 million through July 28, 2016, after which it increases to $200.0 million.  The purpose for the changes in capacity during the term of the agreement is to lower associated fees during seasonally lower volume periods of mortgage origination activity.  Borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement are secured by residential mortgage loans available-for-sale.  The Repurchase Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants applicable to Pulte Mortgage, including quantitative thresholds related to net worth, net income, and liquidity.  Pulte Mortgage had $118.6 million and $267.9 million outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, and was in compliance with all of its covenants and requirements as of such dates.Dividends and share repurchase programDuring the three months ended March 31, 2016, we declared cash dividends totaling $31.5 million and repurchased 3.1 million shares under our repurchase authorization for a total of $50.0 million.  Such repurchases are reflected as reductions of common stock and retained earnings.  At March 31, 2016, we had remaining authorization to repurchase $554.8 million of common shares.Cash flowsOperating activitiesOur net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $64.1 million, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $25.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015.  Generally, the primary drivers of our cash flow from operations are profitability and changes in inventory levels.  The negative cash flow from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to a net increase in inventories of $381.9 million resulting from an increase in land acquisition and development investment, combined with a seasonal build of house inventory.   These uses of cash were partially offset by our pretax income of $118.2 million combined with a seasonal reduction of $151.9 million in residential mortgage loans available-for-sale.Our negative cash flow from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015, was primarily due to a net increase in inventories of $231.0 million resulting from increased investment, partially offset by our pretax income of $95.8 million combined with a seasonal reduction of $120.0 million in residential mortgage loans available-for-sale.  Investing activitiesInvesting activities are generally not a significant source or use of cash for us.  Net cash used by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $451.8 million, compared with net cash used by investing activities of $9.9 million  38for the three months ended March 31, 2015.  The cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to the acquisition of certain real estate assets from Wieland (see Note 1). Financing activitiesNet cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 totaled $757.3 million, compared with net cash used in financing activities of $203.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015.  The net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 resulted primarily from the proceeds of the senior unsecured notes issuance for $991.6 million, offset by a reduction due to the repurchase of 3.1 million common shares for $50.0 million under our repurchase authorization, payment of $31.6 million in cash dividends, and net repayments of $149.3 million for borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement related to a seasonal reduction in residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended ended March 31, 2015 resulted primarily from repayments of $72.7 million for borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement and the repurchase of 4.6 million common shares for $99.6 million under our repurchase authorization.InflationWe, and the homebuilding industry in general, may be adversely affected during periods of inflation because of higher land and construction costs.  Inflation may also increase our financing costs.  In addition, higher mortgage interest rates affect the affordability of our products to prospective homebuyers.  While we attempt to pass on to our customers increases in our costs through increased sales prices, market forces may limit our ability to do so.  If we are unable to raise sales prices enough to compensate for higher costs, or if mortgage interest rates increase significantly, our revenues, gross margins, and net income could be adversely affected.SeasonalityAlthough significant changes in market conditions have impacted our seasonal patterns in the past and could do so again, we historically experience variability in our quarterly results from operations due to the seasonal nature of the homebuilding industry.  We generally experience increases in revenues and cash flow from operations during the fourth quarter based on the timing of home closings.  This seasonal activity increases our working capital requirements in our third and fourth quarters to support our home production and loan origination volumes.  As a result of the seasonality of our operations, our quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year.Contractual Obligations and Commercial CommitmentsWe issued $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in February 2016.  The repayment terms are described in Note 4.  There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our "Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments" contained in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe use letters of credit and surety bonds to guarantee our performance under various contracts, principally in connection with the development of our homebuilding projects.  The expiration dates of the letter of credit contracts coincide with the expected completion date of the related homebuilding projects.  If the obligations related to a project are ongoing, annual extensions of the letters of credit are typically granted on a year-to-year basis.  At March 31, 2016, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $213.4 million.  Our surety bonds generally do not have stated expiration dates; rather, we are released from the bonds as the contractual performance is completed.  These bonds, which approximated $1.1 billion at March 31, 2016, are typically outstanding over a period of approximately three to five years.  Because significant construction and development work has been performed related to projects that have not yet received final acceptance by the respective counterparties, the aggregate amount of surety bonds outstanding is in excess of the projected cost of the remaining work to be performed.In the ordinary course of business, we enter into land option agreements in order to procure land for the construction of houses in the future.  At March 31, 2016, these agreements had an aggregate remaining purchase price of $2.3 billion.  Pursuant to these land option agreements, we generally provide a deposit to the seller as consideration for the right to purchase land at different times in the future, usually at predetermined prices. 39At March 31, 2016, aggregate outstanding debt of unconsolidated joint ventures was $12.7 million, of which our proportionate share was $5.1 million.  Of this amount, we provided limited recourse guaranties for less than $0.3 million at March 31, 2016.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThere have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with those contained in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskQuantitative disclosureWe are subject to market risk on our debt instruments primarily due to fluctuations in interest rates.  We utilize both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt.  For fixed-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument but not our earnings or cash flows. Conversely, for variable-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the debt instrument but could affect our earnings and cash flows.  Except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay fixed-rate debt prior to maturity.  As a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until we are required or elect to refinance or repurchase such debt.The following tables set forth the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of March 31, 2016 ($000 s omitted):(a) Includes the Pulte Mortgage Repurchase Agreement and the Term Loan.  Does not include our Revolving Credit Facility, under which there were no borrowings outstanding at either March 31, 2016 or December 31, 2015.Qualitative disclosureThere have been no material changes to the qualitative disclosure found in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.SPECIAL NOTES CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSAs a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, are  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements.  You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events.  Generally, the words  believe,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   anticipate,   project,   may,   can,   could,   might,   will  and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.  40Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature.  See PulteGroup's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses.  We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 41Item 4.  Controls and ProceduresDisclosure Controls and ProceduresManagement, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2016.  Based upon, and as of the date of that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2016.Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended March 31, 2016 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II.  OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1A.  Risk FactorsSet forth below is a discussion of the material changes in our risk factors as previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015:If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. We depend on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel who are knowledgeable about our business and strategy, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business. On April 4, 2016, Richard J. Dugas, Jr. informed the Company s Board of Directors of his intention to retire as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Board has formed a special committee of independent directors to conduct a search for his successor, with the assistance of a leading executive recruitment firm. Our future success depends in part on identifying a new Chief Executive Officer and successfully transitioning the new Chief Executive Officer into his or her new role. With any change in leadership, there is a risk to organizational effectiveness and employee retention as well as the potential for disruption to our business. Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsIssuer Purchases of Equity Securities  (1)During the first quarter of 2016, a total of 167,582 shares were surrendered by employees for payment of minimum tax obligations upon the vesting or exercise of previously granted share-based compensation awards.  Such shares were not repurchased as part of our publicly-announced share repurchase programs.(2)The Board of Directors approved share repurchase authorizations totaling $750.0 million and $300.0 million in October 2014 and December 2015, respectively.  During the three months ended March 31, 2016, we repurchased 3.1 million shares for a total of $50.0 million.  The share repurchase authorization has $554.8 million remaining as of March 31, 2016.  There is no expiration date for this program.  42Item 6.  ExhibitsExhibit Number and Description3 (a) Restated Articles of Incorporation, of PulteGroup, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on August 18, 2009)       (b) Certificate of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, dated March 18, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010)       (c) Certificate of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, dated May 21, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(c) of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010)       (d) By-laws, as amended, of PulteGroup, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on April 8, 2009)       (e) Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares, dated August 6, 2009 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) of our Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed with the SEC on August 18, 2009)     4 (a) Any instrument with respect to long-term debt, where the securities authorized thereunder do not exceed 10% of the total assets of PulteGroup, Inc. and its subsidiaries, has not been filed. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request.       (b) Amended and Restated Section 382 Rights Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2010, between PulteGroup, Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, which includes the Form of Rights Certificate as Exhibit B thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of PulteGroup, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed with the SEC on March 23, 2010)       (c) First Amendment, dated as of March 14, 2013, to the Amended and Restated Section 382 Rights Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2010, between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2013)       (d) Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Section 382 Rights Agreement, dated as of March 10, 2016, between PulteGroup, Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of PulteGroup, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 10, 2016)     10 (a) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (as amended) under PulteGroup, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (Filed herewith)     31 (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith)       (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith)     32   Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code   1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Filed herewith)     101.INS   XBRL Instance Document     101.SCH   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document     101.CAL   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document     101.DEF   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document     101.LAB   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document     101.PRE   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 43SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  PULTEGROUP, INC.          /s/ Robert T. O'Shaughnessy Robert T. O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and duly authorized officer) Date:April 21, 2016  44   