 10-Q 1 phm0930201310-q.htm 10-Q     PHM 09/30/2013 10-Q ______________________________________________________________________________________________________UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C. 20549FORM 10-Q[X] QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2013 [   ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934Commission File Number 1-9804 PULTEGROUP, INC.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) MICHIGAN 38-2766606(State or other jurisdiction ofincorporation or organization) (I.R.S. EmployerIdentification No.)100 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 300Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (248) 647-2750Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    YES  [X]   NO  [  ]Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    YES  [X]   NO  [  ]Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):Large accelerated filer  [X]  Accelerated filer  [  ]  Non-accelerated filer [  ]    Smaller reporting company [  ]Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  YES [  ]  NO  [X]Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of October 18, 2013:  383,057,410 ______________________________________________________________________________________________________1PULTEGROUP, INC.INDEX  PageNo.PART IFINANCIAL INFORMATION    Item 1Financial Statements     Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012 3    Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 4    Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 5    Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 6    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 7    Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 8   Item 2Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35   Item 3Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52   Item 4Controls and Procedures 54   PART IIOTHER INFORMATION 54   Item 2Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 54   Item 6Exhibits 55    Signatures 56  2PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATIONItem 1.      Financial StatementsPULTEGROUP, INC.CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS($000 s omitted) Note:  The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2012 has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for complete financial statements.See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(000 s omitted, except per share data)(Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME(000 s omitted)(Unaudited)See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY(000's omitted, except per share data)(Unaudited)See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6PULTEGROUP, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS($000 s omitted)(Unaudited)See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 7PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)1.    Summary of significant accounting policiesBasis of presentationPulteGroup, Inc. is one of the largest homebuilders in the United States.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol  PHM .  Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "PulteGroup", the "Company", "we", "us", and "our" used herein refer to PulteGroup, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  While our subsidiaries engage primarily in the homebuilding business, we also have mortgage banking operations, conducted principally through Pulte Mortgage LLC ( Pulte Mortgage ), and title operations.  The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.  Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by United States generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements.  In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal, recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.  Operating results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year.  These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.Use of estimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.Subsequent eventsWe evaluated subsequent events up until the time the financial statements were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").Cash and equivalentsCash and equivalents include institutional money market investments and time deposits with a maturity of three months or less when acquired.  Cash and equivalents at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012 also included $13.6 million and $8.1 million, respectively, of cash from home closings held in escrow for our benefit, typically for less than five days, which are considered deposits in-transit.Restricted cashWe maintain certain cash balances that are restricted as to their use.  Restricted cash consists primarily of deposits maintained with financial institutions under cash-collateralized letter of credit agreements (see Note 9).  The remaining balances relate to certain other accounts with restrictions, including customer deposits on home sales that are temporarily restricted by regulatory requirements until title transfers to the homebuyer. 8PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Other expense (income), netOther expense (income), net consists of the following ($000 s omitted): (a)Excludes $2.5 million of lease exit costs classified within Financial Services expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2012.  There were no such costs during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 or the three months ended September 30, 2012.(b)Includes charges of $8.0 million and $38.0 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, resulting from a contractual dispute related to a previously completed luxury community (see Note 10).Notes receivableIn certain instances, we may accept consideration for land sales or other transactions in the form of a note receivable.  Such receivables are reported net of allowance for credit losses within other assets.  The following represents our notes receivable and related allowance for credit losses ($000 s omitted): We also record receivables from various parties in the normal course of business, including amounts due from municipalities, insurance carriers, and vendors.  Such receivables are generally reported within other assets.  See Residential mortgage loans available-for-sale in Note 1 for a discussion of receivables related to our mortgage operations. Earnings per shareBasic earnings per share is computed by dividing income (loss) available to common shareholders (the  Numerator ) by the weighted-average number of common shares, adjusted for unvested shares of restricted stock (the  Denominator ) for the period.  Computing diluted earnings per share is similar to computing basic earnings per share, except that the Denominator is increased to include the dilutive effects of stock options, non-vested restricted stock, and other potentially dilutive instruments.  Any stock options that have an exercise price greater than the average market price are considered to be anti-dilutive and are excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.  Our earnings per share excludes 10.3 million and 10.5 million stock options and other potentially dilutive instruments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, and 12.0 million and 18.8 million stock options and other potentially dilutive instruments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively.   9PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)In accordance with ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share" ("ASC 260"), the two-class method determines earnings per share for each class of common stock and participating securities according to an earnings allocation formula that adjusts the Numerator for dividends or dividend equivalents and participation rights in undistributed earnings.  Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are participating securities and, therefore, are included in computing earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method.  The Company's outstanding restricted stock awards and deferred shares are considered participating securities.  The following table presents the earnings per share of common stock ($000's omitted, except per share data):Land option agreementsIn the ordinary course of business, we enter into land option agreements in order to procure land for the construction of homes in the future.  Pursuant to these land option agreements, we generally provide a deposit to the seller as consideration for the right to purchase land at different times in the future, usually at predetermined prices.  Such contracts enable us to defer acquiring portions of properties owned by third parties or unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether and when to exercise our option, which reduces our financial risks associated with long-term land holdings.  Option deposits and pre-acquisition costs (such as environmental testing, surveys, engineering, and entitlement costs) are capitalized if the costs are directly identifiable with the land under option, the costs would be capitalized if we owned the land, and acquisition of the property is probable.  Such costs are reflected in other assets and are reclassified to inventory upon taking title to the land.  We write off deposits and pre-acquisition costs when it becomes probable that we will not go forward with the project or recover the capitalized costs.  Such decisions take into consideration changes in local market conditions, the timing of required land purchases, the availability and best use of necessary incremental capital, and other factors.  We record any such write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs within other expense (income), net.  See Note 3. If the entity holding the land under option is a variable interest entity ( VIE ), our deposit represents a variable interest in that entity.  If we are determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE, we are required to consolidate the VIE.  Certain of our land option agreements are with entities considered VIEs.  In evaluating whether we are required to consolidate a VIE, we take into consideration that the VIE is generally protected from the first dollar of loss under our land option agreement due to our deposit.  Likewise, the VIE's gains are generally capped based on the purchase price within the  10PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)land option agreement.  However, we generally have little control or influence over the operations of these VIEs due to our lack of an equity interest in them.  Additionally, creditors of the VIE have no recourse against us, and we do not provide financial or other support to these VIEs other than as stipulated in the land option agreements.  Our maximum exposure to loss related to these VIEs is generally limited to our deposits and pre-acquisition costs under the applicable land option agreements.  Historically, cancellations of land option agreements have resulted in write-offs of the related deposits and pre-acquisition costs but have not exposed us to the overall risks or losses of the applicable VIEs.Separately, certain land option agreements represent financing arrangements even though we generally have no obligation to pay these future amounts.  As a result, we recorded $27.6 million and $31.1 million at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, to land, not owned, under option agreements with a corresponding increase to accrued and other liabilities.  Such amounts represent the remaining purchase price under the land option agreements, some of which are with VIEs, in the event we exercise the purchase rights under the agreements.  The following provides a summary of our interests in land option agreements as of September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012 ($000 s omitted): Residential mortgage loans available-for-saleSubstantially all of the loans originated by us are sold in the secondary mortgage market within a short period of time after origination, generally within 30 days.  In accordance with ASC 825,  Financial Instruments  ( ASC 825 ), we use the fair value option to record residential mortgage loans available-for-sale.  Election of the fair value option for these loans allows a better offset of the changes in fair values of the loans and the derivative instruments used to economically hedge them without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions.  We do not designate any derivative instruments as hedges or apply the hedge accounting provisions of ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging. Expected gains and losses from the sale of residential mortgage loans and their related servicing rights are included in the measurement of written loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value through Financial Services revenues at the time of commitment.  Subsequent changes in the fair value of these loans are reflected in Financial Services revenues as they occur.  At September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $296.9 million and $318.9 million, respectively, and an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $285.9 million and $305.3 million, respectively.  The net gain (loss) resulting from changes in fair value of these loans totaled $4.4 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $2.6 million and $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012.  These changes in fair value were substantially offset by changes in fair value of the corresponding hedging instruments.  Net gains from the sale of mortgages were $18.1 million and $33.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $66.4 million and $76.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and have been included in Financial Services revenues.Derivative instruments and hedging activitiesWe are exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend.  A commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower).  In order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor  11PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment.  We enter into these derivative financial instruments based upon our portfolio of interest rate lock commitments and closed loans.  We do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.  At September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $317.7 million and $161.6 million, respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment.  Since we can terminate a loan commitment if the borrower does not comply with the terms of the contract, and some loan commitments may expire without being drawn upon, these commitments do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.  We evaluate the creditworthiness of these transactions through our normal credit policies.Forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities are commitments to either purchase or sell a specified financial instrument at a specified future date for a specified price that may be settled in cash, by offsetting the position, or through the delivery of the financial instrument.  Forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities are the predominant derivative financial instruments we use to minimize market risk during the period from the time we extend an interest rate lock to a loan applicant until the time the loan is sold to an investor.  We also use whole loan investor commitments, which are obligations of the investor to buy loans at a specified price within a specified time period.  At September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had unexpired forward contracts of $519.6 million and $428.0 million, respectively, and whole loan investor commitments of $30.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively.  Changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and other derivative financial instruments are recognized in Financial Services revenues, and the fair values are reflected in other assets or other liabilities, as applicable.There are no credit-risk-related contingent features within our derivative agreements, and counterparty risk is considered minimal.  Gains and losses on interest rate lock commitments are substantially offset by corresponding gains or losses on forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments.  We are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 75 days. The fair values of derivative instruments and their location in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets is summarized below ($000 s omitted): New accounting pronouncementsIn December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11,  Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities" ("ASU 2011-11"), which requires entities to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements of financial instruments and derivative instruments.  The guidance was effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2013 and was applied retrospectively.  The adoption of this guidance, which is related to disclosure only, did not have a material impact on our financial statements. 12PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)2.    Corporate office relocationOn May 31, 2013, we announced our plan to relocate our corporate offices to Atlanta, Georgia, from its current location in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, in 2014.  The decision to relocate reflects long-term growth trends for both us and the homebuilding industry and is intended to bring our corporate offices closer to our customers and a larger portion of our investment portfolio. The relocation of operations will occur in phases over time but is expected to be substantially complete no later than early 2015.  We expect to incur the following approximate costs in connection with the relocation, the substantial majority of which represent future cash expenditures ($000's omitted):During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, we recorded employee severance, retention, and relocation costs of $0.3 million and $13.4 million, respectively, and asset impairments of $0.0 million and $0.4 million, respectively.  Severance, retention, and relocation costs are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expense, while lease exit and asset impairments are included in other expense (income), net.  We expect to record additional charges of approximately $2.0 million in 2013 related to the relocation with the remaining costs to be recognized primarily in 2014 and early 2015.  We will also incur costs at the new location related to the recruitment and onboarding of new employees and certain redundant operating costs.  The amount of such costs is not expected to be material.3.    Inventory and land held for saleMajor components of inventory were as follows ($000 s omitted): We capitalize interest cost into inventory during the active development and construction of our communities.  Each layer of capitalized interest is amortized over a period that approximates the average life of communities under development.  Interest expense is recorded based on the timing of home closings.  Interest expensed to Homebuilding home sale cost of revenues included capitalized interest related to inventory impairments of $0.8 million and $1.9 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $2.7 million and $4.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  In all periods presented, we capitalized all Homebuilding interest costs into inventory because the level of our active inventory exceeded our debt levels.  Information related to interest capitalized into inventory is as follows ($000 s omitted): * Homebuilding interest incurred includes interest on senior debt and certain other financing arrangements. 13PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Land valuation adjustments and write-offsImpairment of inventoryWe record valuation adjustments on land inventory and related communities under development when events and circumstances indicate that they may be impaired and when the cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than their carrying amounts.  Such indicators include gross margin or sales paces significantly below expectations, construction costs or land development costs significantly in excess of budgeted amounts, significant delays or changes in the planned development for the community, and other known qualitative factors.  For communities that are not yet active, an additional consideration includes an evaluation of the probability, timing, and cost of obtaining necessary approvals from municipalities and any potential concessions that may be necessary in order to obtain such approvals.  We also consider potential changes to the product offerings in a community and any alternative strategies for the land, such as the sale of the land either in whole or in parcels.  Communities that demonstrate potential impairment indicators are tested for impairment.   We compare the expected undiscounted cash flows for these communities to their carrying values.  For those communities whose carrying values exceed the expected undiscounted cash flows, we estimate the fair value of the community.  Impairment charges are recorded if the fair value of the community's inventory is less than its carrying value.  We determine the fair value of a community's inventory using a combination of market comparable land transactions, where available, and discounted cash flow models.  These estimated cash flows are significantly impacted by estimates related to expected average selling prices, expected sales paces, expected land development and construction timelines, and anticipated land development, construction, and overhead costs.  The assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models are specific to each community tested for impairment.  Due to uncertainties in the estimation process, the significant volatility in demand for new housing, and the long life cycles of many communities, actual results could differ significantly from such estimates.  Our determination of fair value also requires discounting the estimated cash flows at a rate commensurate with the inherent risks associated with each of the assets and related estimated cash flow streams.  The discount rate used in determining each community's fair value depends on the stage of development of the community and other specific factors that increase or decrease the inherent risks associated with the community's cash flow streams.  For example, communities that are entitled and near completion will generally be assigned a lower discount rate than communities that are not entitled and consist of multiple phases spanning several years of development and construction.During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, we reviewed each of our land positions for potential impairment.  As a result of these reviews, we recorded impairments of $0.8 million and $2.3 million during the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $2.7 million and $9.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which are recorded within Homebuilding home sale cost of revenues.  Our evaluations for impairments recorded to date were based on our best estimates of the future cash flows for our communities.  However, if conditions in the homebuilding industry or our local markets worsen in the future or if our strategy related to certain communities changes, we may be required to evaluate our assets for further impairments or write-downs, which could result in future charges that might be significant.Net realizable value adjustments   land held for sale  Land held for sale is valued at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell.  In determining the value of land held for sale, we consider recent offers received, prices for land in recent comparable sales transactions, and other factors.  During the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, we recognized net realizable value adjustments related to land held for sale of $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively.  Such adjustments totaled $2.3 million and $1.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  We record these net realizable value adjustments within Homebuilding land sale cost of revenues.  During 2013, the decrease in the gross land held for sale and net realizable value reserve balances resulted primarily from the sale of land parcels, certain of which were previously impaired.  Land held for sale was as follows ($000 s omitted):  14PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costsWe wrote off deposits and pre-acquisition costs in the amount of $0.8 million and $0.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $1.4 million and $1.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  We record these write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs within other expense (income), net. 4.    Segment informationOur Homebuilding operations are engaged in the acquisition and development of land primarily for residential purposes within the U.S. and the construction of housing on such land.  For reporting purposes, our Homebuilding operations are aggregated into six reportable segments:  Northeast:  Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, VirginiaSoutheast:  Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, TennesseeFlorida: FloridaTexas: TexasNorth:  Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Northern California, Ohio, Oregon, WashingtonSouthwest:  Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Southern CaliforniaWe also have a reportable segment for our Financial Services operations, which consist principally of mortgage banking and title operations.  The Financial Services segment operates generally in the same markets as the Homebuilding segments.Evaluation of segment performance is generally based on income before income taxes.  Each reportable segment generally follows the same accounting policies described in Note 1 - "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. 15PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED) (a)Other homebuilding includes the amortization of intangible assets, amortization of capitalized interest, and other items not allocated to the operating segments.  Other homebuilding also included for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013:  losses on debt retirements totaling $3.9 million and $26.9 million, respectively; costs associated with the previously announced relocation of our corporate headquarters totaling $0.3 million and $13.8 million, respectively; and charges resulting from a contractual dispute related to a previously completed luxury community totaling $8.0 million and $38.0 million, respectively.(b)Financial Services income before income taxes includes interest income of $2.1 million and $1.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $5.2 million and $4.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  16PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)(a)Represents write-offs of capitalized interest related to land and community valuation adjustments. 17PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED) (a)Other homebuilding primarily includes cash and equivalents, capitalized interest, net deferred tax assets, intangibles, and other corporate items that are not allocated to the operating segments.  18PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)5.    Investments in unconsolidated entitiesWe participate in a number of joint ventures with independent third parties.  Many of these joint ventures purchase, develop, and/or sell land and homes.  A summary of our joint ventures is presented below ($000 s omitted):  September 30, 2013 December 31, 2012Investments in joint ventures with debt non-recourse to PulteGroup$26,362 $11,155Investments in other active joint ventures18,644 34,474Total investments in unconsolidated entities$45,006 $45,629    Total joint venture debt$10,104 $6,915    PulteGroup proportionate share of joint venture debt:   Joint venture debt with limited recourse guaranties$955 $769Joint venture debt non-recourse to PulteGroup2,065 826PulteGroup's total proportionate share of joint venture debt$3,020 $1,595We recognized (income) expense from unconsolidated joint ventures of $(0.8) million and $(0.3) million during the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $(0.3) million and $(3.8) million during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  During the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 we made capital contributions of $1.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively, and received capital and earnings distributions of $1.9 million and $9.9 million, respectively.The timing of cash obligations under the joint venture and any related financing agreements varies by agreement.  If additional capital contributions are required and approved, we would need to contribute our pro rata portion of those capital needs in order to not dilute our ownership in the joint ventures.  While future capital contributions may be required, we believe the total amount of such contributions will be limited.  Our maximum financial loss exposure related to joint ventures is unlikely to exceed the combined investment and limited recourse guaranty totals. 6.    Shareholders  equityWe reinstated our quarterly cash dividend in July 2013.  During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we declared two cash dividends of $0.05 per common share; the first paid in August 2013, the second in October 2013.In July 2013, we increased our common share repurchase authorization to $352.3 million of common shares.  During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we repurchased 5.3 million shares under the repurchase authorization for a total of $83.0 million.  Such repurchases are reflected as a reduction of common stock and retained earnings.  At September 30, 2013, we had remaining authorization to repurchase $269.3 million of common shares.   Under our stock-based compensation plans, we accept shares as payment under certain conditions related to stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock, generally related to the payment of minimum tax obligations.  During the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, employees surrendered shares valued at $6.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively, under these plans.  Such share transactions are excluded from the above noted stock repurchase authorization. 19PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)7.  Income taxesOur effective tax rate is affected by a number of factors, the most significant of which are the valuation allowance related to our deferred tax assets and changes in our unrecognized tax benefits.  Due to the effects of these factors, our effective tax rates in 2013 and 2012 are not correlated to the amount of our income or loss before income taxes.From 2007 to 2011, we generated significant deferred tax assets primarily from asset impairments combined with reduced operational profitability.  At September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had deferred tax assets of $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively.  We evaluate our deferred tax assets each period to determine if a valuation allowance is required based on whether it is "more likely than not" that some portion of the deferred tax assets would not be realized.  The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of sufficient taxable income during future periods.  We conduct our evaluation by considering all available positive and negative evidence.  This evaluation considers, among other factors, historical operating results, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, and the outlooks for the U.S. housing industry and broader economy.  Based on our evaluation through June 30, 2013, we fully reserved our net deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of their realization.  One of the primary pieces of negative evidence we considered was the significant losses we incurred in recent years, including being in a three-year cumulative pre-tax loss position through June 30, 2013.Consistent with the above process, we evaluated the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets at September 30, 2013, and determined that the valuation allowance against substantially all of our federal deferred tax assets and a significant portion of our state deferred tax assets was no longer required.  Accordingly, we reversed $2.1 billion of valuation allowance in the quarter ended September 30, 2013.  This reversal is reflected in our income tax expense (benefit) in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.  When a change in valuation allowance is recognized in an interim period, a portion of the valuation allowance to be reversed must be allocated to the remaining interim periods. Accordingly, a portion of the remaining valuation allowance of $231.0 million at September 30, 2013, will reverse in the fourth quarter of 2013.  The other components of the remaining valuation allowance relate primarily to state net operating losses that have not met the "more likely than not" realization threshold. We conducted our evaluation by considering all available positive and negative evidence.  The principal positive evidence that led to the reversal of the valuation allowance included:  (1) our emergence from a three-year cumulative loss in 2013; (2) the significant positive income we generated during 2012 and 2013, including six consecutive quarters of pretax income; (3) continued improvements in 2013 over recent years in other key operating metrics, including revenues, gross margin, overhead leverage, and backlog; (4) our forecasted future profitability; (5) improvement in our financial position; and (6) significant evidence that conditions in the U.S. housing industry are more favorable than in recent years and our belief that conditions will continue to be favorable over the long-term.  Even if industry conditions weaken from current levels, we believe we will be able to adjust our operations to sustain long-term profitability.The accounting for deferred taxes is based upon an estimate of future results.  Differences between our estimated and actual results could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position and our ability to fully realize our deferred tax assets.  Changes in existing tax laws could also affect actual tax results and the realization of deferred tax assets over time. As a result of our merger with Centex in August 2009, our ability to use certain of Centex s pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and built-in losses or deductions is limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.  Our Section 382 limitation is approximately $67.4 million per year for NOLs, losses realized on built-in loss assets that are sold within 60 months of the ownership change (i.e. before August 2014), and certain deductions.  We do not believe that the Section 382 limitation will prevent the Company from using Centex s pre-ownership change federal NOL carryforwards and built-in losses or deductions.At September 30, 2013, we had $165.9 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $31.0 million would impact the effective tax rate if recognized.  Additionally, we have $32.9 million of related accrued interest and penalties at September 30, 2013.  It is reasonably possible within the next twelve months that our gross unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by up to $130.0 million, excluding interest and penalties, primarily due to expirations of certain statutes of limitations and potential settlements.  We are currently under examination by the IRS and various state taxing jurisdictions and anticipate finalizing certain of the examinations within the next twelve months.  The final outcome of these examinations is not yet determinable.  The statute of limitations for our major tax jurisdictions remains open for examination for tax years 2003 to 2013. 20PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)8.  Fair value disclosuresASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,  provides a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  The fair value hierarchy can be summarized as follows: Level 1  Fair value determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2  Fair value determined using significant observable inputs, generally either quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities or quoted prices in markets that are not active.  Level 3  Fair value determined using significant unobservable inputs, such as pricing models, discounted cash flows, or similar techniques.Our assets and liabilities measured or disclosed at fair value are summarized below ($000 s omitted): Fair values for agency residential mortgage loans available-for-sale are determined based on quoted market prices for comparable instruments.  Fair values for non-agency residential mortgage loans available-for-sale are determined based on purchase commitments from whole loan investors and other relevant market information available to management.  Fair values for interest rate lock commitments, including the value of servicing rights, are based on market prices for similar instruments.  Forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities are valued based on market prices for similar instruments.  Fair values for whole loan investor commitments are based on market prices for similar instruments from the specific whole loan investor.Certain assets are required to be recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  The non-recurring fair values included in the table above represent only those assets whose carrying values were adjusted to fair value as of the respective balance sheet dates.  See Note 3 for a more detailed discussion of the valuation methods used for inventory.The carrying amounts of cash and equivalents and Financial Services debt approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature.  The fair values of senior notes are based on quoted market prices, when available.  If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of similar issues.  The carrying value of senior notes was $2.1 billion at September 30, 2013 and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2012. 21PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)9.   Debt Our senior notes are summarized as follows ($000 s omitted):(a)Redeemable prior to maturity; guaranteed on a senior basis by certain wholly-owned subsidiaries.(b)Not redeemable prior to maturity; guaranteed on a senior basis by certain wholly-owned subsidiaries.(c)The recorded carrying value reflects the impact of various discounts and premiums that are amortized to interest cost over the respective terms of the senior notes.Debt retirementDuring the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, we retired prior to their scheduled maturity dates $27.0 million and $461.4 million of senior notes, respectively.  We recorded losses related to these transactions totaling $3.9 million and $26.9 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively.  Losses on these transactions included the write-off of unamortized discounts, premiums, and transaction fees and are reflected in other expense (income), net.  During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, we retired $96.4 million of senior notes at their scheduled maturity dates.Letter of credit facilitiesWe maintain separate cash-collateralized letter of credit agreements with a number of financial institutions.  Letters of credit totaling $53.7 million and $54.5 million were outstanding under these agreements at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.  Under these agreements, we are required to maintain deposits with the respective financial institutions in amounts approximating the letters of credit outstanding.  Such deposits are included in restricted cash.  We also maintain an unsecured letter of credit facility with a bank that expires in September 2014.  This facility permits the issuance of up to $150.0 million of letters of credit for general corporate purposes in support of any wholly-owned subsidiary.  Letters of credit totaling $124.4 million and $124.6 million were outstanding under this facility at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. 22PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Financial ServicesPulte Mortgage provides mortgage financing for the majority of our home closings utilizing its own funds and funds made available pursuant to credit agreements with third parties or through intercompany borrowings.  Pulte Mortgage uses these resources to finance its lending activities until the mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market, which generally occurs within 30 days.  In September 2013, Pulte Mortgage entered into the First Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement with third party lenders, which extended the term of the Master Repurchase Agreement (the "Repurchase Agreement") through September 2014, modified the pricing applicable under the Repurchase Agreement, and made other adjustments to the credit available under the Repurchase Agreement.  The Repurchase Agreement provides for loan purchases of up to $150.0 million, subject to certain sublimits.  Borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement are secured by residential mortgage loans available-for-sale.  The Repurchase Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants applicable to Pulte Mortgage, including quantitative thresholds related to net worth, net income, and liquidity.  At September 30, 2013, Pulte Mortgage had $115.1 million outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement.10.  Commitments and contingenciesLoan origination liabilitiesOur mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan.  If determined to be at fault, we either repurchase the loans from the investors or reimburse the investors' losses (a  make-whole  payment).  In recent years, we experienced a significant increase in losses related to repurchase requests as a result of the high level of loan defaults and related losses in the mortgage industry and increasing aggressiveness by investors in presenting such claims to us.  To date, the significant majority of these losses relates to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the mortgage origination market.  In 2006 and 2007, we originated $39.5 billion of loans, excluding loans originated by Centex's former subprime loan business sold by Centex in 2006.  Because we generally do not retain the servicing rights to the loans we originate, information regarding the current and historical performance, credit quality, and outstanding balances of such loans is limited.  Estimating these loan origination liabilities is further complicated by uncertainties surrounding numerous external factors, such as various macroeconomic factors (including unemployment rates and changes in home prices), actions taken by third parties, including the parties servicing the loans, and the U.S. federal government in its dual capacity as regulator of the U.S. mortgage industry and conservator of the government-sponsored enterprises commonly known as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee the majority of mortgage loans in the U.S. Most requests received to date relate to make-whole payments on loans that have been foreclosed.  Requests undergo extensive analysis to confirm the exposure, attempt to cure the identified defect, and, when necessary, determine our liability.  We establish liabilities for such anticipated losses based upon, among other things, the level of current unresolved repurchase requests, the volume of estimated probable future repurchase requests, our ability to cure the defects identified in the repurchase requests, and the severity of the estimated loss upon repurchase.  Determining these estimates and the resulting liability requires a significant level of management judgment.  We are generally able to cure or refute over 60% of the requests received from investors such that we do not believe repurchases or make-whole payments will ultimately be required.  For those requests that we believe will result in repurchases or make-whole payments, actual loss severities are expected to approximate 50% of the outstanding principal balance.  Our current estimates assume that such requests will continue through 2014.  Given the ongoing volatility in the mortgage industry, our lack of visibility into the current status of the review process of loans by investors, the claim volumes we continue to experience, and uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates.  Changes in these liabilities were as follows ($000's omitted):   23PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)We entered into an agreement in conjunction with the wind down of Centex's mortgage operations, which ceased loan origination activities in December 2009, that provides a guaranty for one major investor of loans originated by Centex.  This guaranty provides that we will honor the potential repurchase obligations of Centex's mortgage operations related to breaches of representations and warranties in the origination of a certain pool of loans.  Other than with respect to this pool of loans, our contractual repurchase obligations are limited to our mortgage subsidiaries, which are included in non-guarantor subsidiaries (see Note 11 for a discussion of non-guarantor subsidiaries).The mortgage subsidiary of Centex also sold loans to a bank for inclusion in residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBSs ) issued by the bank.  In connection with these sales, Centex's mortgage subsidiary entered into agreements pursuant to which it may be required to indemnify the bank for losses incurred by investors in the RMBSs arising out of material errors or omissions in certain information provided by the mortgage subsidiary relating to the loans and loan origination process. In 2011, the bank notified us that it has been named defendant in two lawsuits alleging various violations of federal and state securities laws asserting that untrue statements of material fact were included in the registration statements used to market the sale of two RMBS transactions which included $162 million of loans originated by Centex's mortgage subsidiary.  The plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages on behalf of persons who purchased the securities.  Neither Centex's mortgage subsidiary nor the Company is named as a defendant in these actions. These actions are in their preliminary stage, and we cannot yet quantify Centex's mortgage subsidiary's potential liability as a result of these indemnification obligations.  We do not believe, however, that these matters will have a material adverse impact on the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows of the Company.  We are aware of six other RMBS transactions with such indemnity provisions that include an aggregate $116 million of loans originated by Centex's mortgage subsidiary, and we are not aware of any current or threatened legal proceedings regarding those transactions.  Letters of credit and surety bondsIn the normal course of business, we post letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations, as security for certain land option agreements, and under various insurance programs.  The majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure.  We had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $178.1 million and $1.0 billion at September 30, 2013, respectively, and $179.2 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2012, respectively.  In the event any such letter of credit or surety bonds are called, we would be obligated to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit or surety bond.  We do not believe that a material amount, if any, of the letters of credit or surety bonds will be called.  Our surety bonds generally do not have stated expiration dates; rather we are released from the surety bonds as the underlying contractual performance is completed.  Because significant construction and development work has been performed related to the applicable projects but has not yet received final acceptance by the respective counterparties, the aggregate amount of surety bonds outstanding is in excess of the projected cost of the remaining work to be performed.Litigation and regulatory mattersWe are involved in various litigation and legal claims in the normal course of our business operations, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants.  We are also subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations related to land development activities, house construction standards, sales practices, mortgage lending operations, employment practices, and protection of the environment.  As a result, we are subject to periodic examination or inquiry by various governmental agencies that administer these laws and regulations. 24PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)We establish liabilities for legal claims and regulatory matters when such matters are both probable of occurring and any potential loss is reasonably estimable.  We accrue for such matters based on the facts and circumstances specific to each matter and revise these estimates as the matters evolve.  In such cases, there may exist an exposure to loss in excess of any amounts currently accrued.  In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of these legal and regulatory matters, we generally cannot predict the ultimate resolution of the pending matters, the related timing, or the eventual loss.   While the outcome of such contingencies cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the resolution of such matters will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.  However, to the extent the liability arising from the ultimate resolution of any matter exceeds the estimates reflected in the recorded reserves relating to such matter, we could incur additional charges that could be significant.We are engaged in arbitration related to a previously completed luxury community in a market we have since exited.  The arbitration relates to a variety of claims involving a contractual dispute with certain homeowners.  Based on the various stages of these claims, we anticipate most, if not all, of these claims being resolved during 2013.  As the result of various rulings by the arbitrator and ongoing settlement discussions, we recorded charges of $8.0 million and $38.0 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively.  While the ultimate outcome of this matter remains uncertain, we believe that the final resolution will not vary materially from our current estimates.Allowance for warrantiesHome purchasers are provided with a limited warranty against certain building defects, including a one-year comprehensive limited warranty and coverage for certain other aspects of the home s construction and operating systems for periods of up to 10 years.  We estimate the costs to be incurred under these warranties and record liabilities in the amount of such costs at the time product revenue is recognized.  Factors that affect our warranty liabilities include the number of homes sold, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, and the cost per claim.  We periodically assess the adequacy of the warranty liabilities for each geographic market in which we operate and adjust the amounts as necessary.  Actual warranty costs in the future could differ from the current estimates.  Changes to warranty liabilities were as follows ($000 s omitted): Self-insured risksWe maintain, and require our subcontractors to maintain, general liability insurance coverage.  We also maintain builders' risk, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance coverage.  These insurance policies protect us against a portion of the risk of loss from claims.  However, we retain a significant portion of the overall risk for such claims either through policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries or through our own self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and claims in excess of available insurance policy limits.  Our general liability insurance includes coverage for certain construction defects.  While construction defect claims can relate to a variety of circumstances, the majority of our claims relate to alleged problems with siding, plumbing, foundations and other concrete work, windows, roofing, and heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems.  The availability of general liability insurance for the homebuilding industry and its subcontractors has become increasingly limited, and the insurance policies available require companies to maintain significant per occurrence and aggregate retention levels.  In certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or to participate in a project-specific insurance program provided by the Company.  Policies issued by the captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by the Company.  This self-insured exposure is limited by reinsurance policies that we purchase.  General liability coverage for the homebuilding industry is complex, and our coverage varies from policy year to policy year.  Our insurance coverage requires a per  25PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)occurrence deductible up to an overall aggregate retention level.  Beginning with the first dollar, amounts paid on insured claims satisfy our per occurrence and aggregate retention obligations.  Any amounts incurred in excess of the occurrence or aggregate retention levels are covered by insurance up to our purchased coverage levels.  Our insurance policies, including the captive insurance subsidiaries' reinsurance policies, are maintained with highly-rated underwriters for whom we believe counterparty default risk is not significant.  At any point in time, we are managing over 1,000 individual claims related to general liability, property, errors and omission, workers compensation, and other business insurance coverage.  We reserve for costs associated with such claims (including expected claims management expenses) on an undiscounted basis at the time revenue is recognized for each home closing and evaluate the recorded liabilities based on actuarial analyses of our historical claims.  The actuarial analyses calculate estimates of the ultimate net cost of all unpaid losses, including estimates for incurred but not reported losses ("IBNR").  IBNR represents losses related to claims incurred but not yet reported plus development on reported claims.  These estimates comprise a significant portion of our liability and are subject to a high degree of uncertainty due to a variety of factors, including changes in claims reporting and resolution patterns, third party recoveries, insurance industry practices, the regulatory environment, and legal precedent.  State regulations vary, but construction defect claims are reported and resolved over an extended period often exceeding ten years.  In certain instances, we have the ability to recover a portion of our costs under various insurance policies or from subcontractors or other third parties.  Estimates of such amounts are recorded when recovery is considered probable.Our recorded reserves for all such claims totaled $691.6 million at September 30, 2013, the vast majority of which relates to general liability claims.  The recorded reserves include loss estimates related to both (i) existing claims and related claim expenses and (ii) IBNR and related claim expenses.  Liabilities related to IBNR and related claim expenses represented approximately 77% of the total general liability reserves at September 30, 2013.  The actuarial analyses that determine the IBNR portion of reserves consider a variety of factors, including the frequency and severity of losses, which are based on our historical claims experience supplemented by industry data.  The actuarial analyses of the reserves also consider historical third party recovery rates and claims management expenses.  Adjustments to reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs.  Because the majority of our reserves relates to IBNR, adjustments to reserve amounts for individual existing claims generally do not impact the recorded reserves materially.  However, changes in the frequency and timing of reported claims and estimates of specific claim values can impact the underlying inputs and trends utilized in the actuarial analyses, which could have a material impact on the recorded reserves.  Because of the inherent uncertainty in estimating future losses related to these claims, actual costs could differ significantly from estimated costs.  Costs associated with our insurance programs are classified within selling, general, and administrative expenses.  Changes in these liabilities were as follows ($000's omitted):  11.  Supplemental Guarantor informationAll of our senior notes are guaranteed jointly and severally on a senior basis by each of the Company's wholly-owned Homebuilding subsidiaries and certain other wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the  Guarantors ).  Such guaranties are full and unconditional.  Supplemental consolidating financial information of the Company, including such information for the Guarantors, is presented below.  Investments in subsidiaries are presented using the equity method of accounting.  Separate financial statements of the Guarantors are not provided as the consolidating financial information contained herein provides a more meaningful disclosure to allow investors to determine the nature of the assets held by, and the operations of, the combined groups.     26PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETSEPTEMBER 30, 2013 ($000 s omitted) 27PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETDECEMBER 31, 2012 ($000 s omitted) 28PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)For the three months ended September 30, 2013 ($000 s omitted) 29PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)For the three months ended September 30, 2012 ($000 s omitted) 30PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)For the nine months ended September 30, 2013 ($000 s omitted) 31PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)For the nine months ended September 30, 2012 ($000 s omitted) 32PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSFor the nine months ended September 30, 2013 ($000 s omitted) 33PULTEGROUP, INC.NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSFor the nine months ended September 30, 2012 ($000 s omitted) 34Item 2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewThe overall housing market continues to exhibit favorable conditions as the combination of low interest rates and affordable home prices have kept monthly mortgage payments affordable relative to historical levels and the rental market.  In addition to higher sales volumes in many parts of the U.S., house prices have also been increasing as the result of increased demand for new homes and low supplies of existing and new home inventory in many markets.  These factors combined to result in our sixth consecutive quarter with income before income taxes.  Closings, revenues, and gross margin all improved in the third quarter of 2013 over the prior year third quarter. Our net new orders declined 17% in the third quarter of 2013 compared to the third quarter of 2012.  This decline was primarily the result of having 15% fewer active communities compared to the third quarter of 2012, which is the result of the close-out of a number of long-term projects and is consistent with our more disciplined land investment strategy.  However, the moderate rise in interest rates that has occurred in recent months also contributed to the decline in sales activity.  While we believe higher interest rates are inevitable and may have a moderating effect on demand and pricing, we believe this impact will be outweighed by other factors driving increased sales volume as overall new home sales in the U.S. remain low compared to historical levels.  We will continue to calibrate sales pace in each community to improve our gross margins and maximize returns on invested capital.  We expect that this approach will continue to result in a moderation in our net new order volume relative to overall growth in the U.S. homebuilding industry.For the remainder of 2013, we will continue to focus on improving our operating margins while facing rising house cost pressures from material and labor prices, using our existing land assets more effectively, allocating capital more effectively, and aggressively controlling unsold "spec" inventory to enhance our balance sheet and position the Company to deliver improved long-term returns.  We generated significant positive cash flow from operations in the nine months of 2013, which has provided additional flexibility to retire debt early and increase our planned future investments in new communities, while also paying a dividend and selectively repurchasing our common shares. In planning for the longer term, we continue to maintain confidence that we are in the early stages of a broad, sustainable recovery in the U.S. new home market.  While the U.S. macroeconomic environment continues to face challenges and each local market will experience varying results, we are continuing to pursue strategic land positions that meet our underwriting requirements in well-positioned submarkets and believe that sustained execution of our strategy will continue to result in increased profits and improved returns on invested capital.   35The following is a summary of our operating results by line of business ($000's omitted, except per share data): Homebuilding income before income taxes for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 improved compared to the prior year periods primarily as the result of higher revenues, increased gross margins, and improved overhead leverage.  Partially offsetting these improved results were charges totaling $12.1 million and $78.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, which consisted of:  losses on debt retirements totaling $3.9 million and $26.9 million, respectively; costs associated with the previously announced relocation of our corporate headquarters totaling $0.3 million and $13.8 million, respectively; and charges resulting from a contractual dispute related to a previously completed luxury community totaling $8.0 million and $38.0 million, respectively. The decreased Financial Services income in 2013 compared to the prior year resulted primarily from lower loan pricing due to increased competition, partially offset by higher origination volume and average loan size. The income tax benefit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 includes $2.1 billion related to the reversal of substantially all of the valuation allowance previously recorded against our deferred tax assets.  See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 36Homebuilding OperationsThe following is a summary of income before income taxes for our Homebuilding operations ($000 s omitted):(a)Includes amortization of capitalized interest.  Also includes land and community valuation adjustments of $0.8 million and $2.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $2.7 million and $9.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.(b)Includes net realizable value adjustments for land held for sale of $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $2.3 million and $1.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.(c)SG&A includes costs associated with the relocation of our corporate headquarters totaling $0.3 million and $13.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively.  Related asset impairments totaling $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, are reflected in other expense (income), net.(d)Includes losses on debt retirements totaling $3.9 million and $26.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively; charges resulting from a contractual dispute related to a previously completed luxury community totaling $8.0 million and $38.0 million for three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively; and the write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costs for land option contracts we elected not to pursue of $0.8 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $1.4 million and $1.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively.(e)Net new order dollars represent a composite of new order dollars combined with other movements of the dollars in backlog related to cancellations and change orders. 37Home sale revenuesHome sale revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2013 were higher than the prior year period by $259.3 million, or 21%.  The increase was attributable to a 9% increase in closings combined with an 11% increase in average selling price.  Home sale revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 were higher than the prior year period by $740.5 million or 24%.  The increase was attributable to a 13% increase in closings combined with a 10% increase in average selling price.  The increase in closings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 reflected improved consumer demand for new homes in the majority of our local markets.  The increase in average selling price occurred in substantially all of our local markets and reflects an ongoing shift in our revenue mix toward move-up buyers and improved market conditions that have allowed for increased sale prices, including higher levels of house options and lot premiums.Home sale gross margins Home sale gross margins were 20.9% and 19.4% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, compared to 17.0% and 15.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively.  Excluding the impact of land and community valuation adjustments and capitalized interest amortization, adjusted home sale gross margins improved to 25.5% and 24.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, compared to 21.6% and 20.4% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively (see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section for a reconciliation of adjusted home sale gross margins).  The gross margin improvement was broad-based as substantially all of our operating divisions experienced higher gross margins in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared with the prior year periods.  These improved gross margins reflect a combination of factors, including an improved pricing environment, shifts in the product mix of homes closed toward move-up and active adult buyers, better alignment of our product offering with consumer demand, and contributions from our strategic pricing and house cost reduction objectives.Land salesWe periodically elect to sell parcels of land to third parties in the event such assets no longer fit into our strategic operating plans or are zoned for commercial or other development.  Land sale revenues and their related gains or losses vary between periods, depending on the timing of land sales and our strategic operating decisions.  Land sales had margin contributions of $5.9 million and $9.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, compared to $1.6 million and $7.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively.  These margin contributions included costs related to net realizable value adjustments on land held for sale totaling $0.1 million and $2.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, and $0.2 million and $1.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively.  SG&ASG&A as a percentage of home sale revenues was 9.3% and 11.0% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, compared with 10.2% and 12.1% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively.  The gross dollar amount of our SG&A increased $13.4 million, or 11%, for the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to the prior year, and $46.1 million or 12% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013.  SG&A for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 includes $0.3 million and $13.4 million, respectively, of employee severance, retention, and relocation costs attributable to our previously announced relocation of our corporate headquarters.  The remaining increases in gross overhead dollars were primarily due to variable costs related to the higher revenue volume combined with higher incentive compensation accruals resulting from the Company's improved operating performance.Equity in (earnings) loss of unconsolidated entitiesEquity in (earnings) loss of unconsolidated entities was $(0.7) million and $(0.2) million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, compared with $(0.2) million and $(3.7) million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively.  The majority of our unconsolidated entities represent land development joint ventures.  As a result, the timing of income and losses varies between periods depending on the timing of transactions and circumstances specific to each entity. 38Other expense (income), netOther expense (income), net includes the following ($000 s omitted):For additional information on each of the above, see the applicable Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Miscellaneous expense (income), net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 includes charges of $8.0 million and $38.0 million, respectively, resulting from a contractual dispute related to a previously completed luxury community (see Note 10).Interest income, netThe level of interest income, net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 decreased from the prior year based on the level of invested cash balances and low returns on invested cash available in the current interest rate environment.Net new ordersNet new orders decreased 17% and 8% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, compared with the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, primarily due to selling from 15% fewer active communities in 2013 (604 at September 30, 2013).  The cancellation rate (canceled orders for the period divided by gross new orders for the period) was 18% and 15% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, compared to 16% and 15% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively.  Ending backlog, which represents orders for homes that have not yet closed, decreased 2% at September 30, 2013 compared with September 30, 2012 as measured in units but increased 8% over the prior year period as measured in dollars due to the increase in our average selling price.Homes in productionThe following is a summary of our homes in production at September 30, 2013 and September 30, 2012:The number of homes in production at September 30, 2013 was 8% lower than at September 30, 2012 as the slight increase in our sold homes in production was offset by a significant reduction in homes unsold to customers ("spec homes") and models.  Reducing our reliance on sales of spec homes is a component of our strategic pricing and inventory turns objectives, so we have focused on reducing the level of our spec home inventory, especially our completed specs ("final specs").  As a result, our unsold homes in production at September 30, 2013 was 37% lower than at September 30, 2012. 39Controlled lotsThe following is a summary of our lots under control at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012:Of our controlled lots, 97,526 and 103,060 were owned and 10,487 and 9,634 were under option agreements approved for purchase at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.  In addition, there were 18,461 and 7,181 lots under option agreements pending approval at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.  While competition for well-positioned land has increased in recent quarters, we continue to pursue strategic land positions that meet our underwriting requirements while also using our existing land assets more effectively.The remaining purchase price related to land under option for use by our Homebuilding operations at future dates totaled $1.4 billion at September 30, 2013.  These land option agreements, which generally may be canceled at our discretion and in certain cases extend over several years, are secured by deposits and pre-acquisition costs totaling $87.9 million, of which only $7.2 million is refundable.  Non-GAAP Financial MeasuresThis report contains information about our home sale gross margins reflecting certain adjustments.  This measure is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules and should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the comparable GAAP financial measure as a measure of our operating performance.  Management and our local divisions use this measure in evaluating the operating performance of each community and in making strategic decisions regarding sales pricing, construction and development pace, product mix, and other daily operating decisions.  We believe it is a relevant and useful measure to investors for evaluating our performance through gross profit generated on homes delivered during a given period and for comparing our operating performance to other companies in the homebuilding industry.  Although other companies in the homebuilding industry report similar information, the methods used may differ.  We urge investors to understand the methods used by other companies in the homebuilding industry to calculate gross margins and any adjustments thereto before comparing our measure to that of such other companies.  40The following table sets forth a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the GAAP financial measure that management believes to be most directly comparable ($000's omitted):(a)Write-offs of capitalized interest related to land and community valuation adjustments are reflected in capitalized interest amortization.Homebuilding Segment OperationsOur homebuilding operations represent our core business.  Homebuilding offers a broad product line to meet the needs of homebuyers in our targeted markets.  As of September 30, 2013, we conducted our operations in approximately 50 markets located throughout 28 states.  For reporting purposes, our Homebuilding operations are aggregated into six reportable segments: Northeast:  Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, VirginiaSoutheast:  Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, TennesseeFlorida: FloridaTexas: TexasNorth:  Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Northern California, Ohio, Oregon, WashingtonSouthwest:  Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Southern CaliforniaWe also have a reportable segment for our financial services operations, which consist principally of mortgage banking and title operations.  The Financial Services segment operates generally in the same markets as the Homebuilding segments. 41The following tables present selected financial information for our reportable Homebuilding segments: (a)Other homebuilding includes the amortization of intangible assets, amortization of capitalized interest, and other items not allocated to the operating segments.  During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, Other homebuilding also included:  losses on debt retirements totaling $3.9 million and $26.9 million, respectively; costs associated with the previously announced relocation of our corporate headquarters totaling $0.3 million and $13.8 million, respectively; and charges resulting from a contractual dispute related to a previously completed luxury community totaling $8.0 million and $38.0 million, respectively. 42The following tables present additional selected financial information for our reportable Homebuilding segments:  43The following table presents additional selected financial information for our reportable Homebuilding segments:*Land-related charges include land and community valuation adjustments, net realizable value adjustments for land held for sale, and write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs for land option contracts we elected not to pursue.  See Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of these charges.(a)Percentage not meaningful.NortheastFor the third quarter of 2013, Northeast home sale revenues increased 21% compared with the prior year period due to a 17% increase in closings combined with a 4% increase in the average selling price.  The increase in closings was concentrated in New England and resulted from an increase in active communities.  The increase in average selling price occurred primarily in the Mid-Atlantic.  The increased income before income taxes was due to higher revenues and improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased 6%, mainly due to lower order levels in the Mid-Atlantic due to fewer active communities.For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Northeast home sale revenues increased 6% compared with the prior year period due to a 7% increase in the average selling price, partially offset by a 1% decrease in closings.  The increase in average selling price occurred primarily in New England and the Mid-Atlantic.  The decrease in closings was concentrated in the Northeast Corridor and Mid-Atlantic.  The increased income before income taxes was due to higher revenues and improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased 5%, mainly due to lower order levels in the Mid-Atlantic due to fewer active communities, offset in part by an increase in orders in New England.SoutheastFor the third quarter of 2013, Southeast home sale revenues increased 21% compared with the prior year period due to a 6% increase in closings and a 14% increase in the average selling price.  The increase in closing volumes was concentrated in Charlotte.  The increase in average selling price was most apparent in Raleigh and Tennessee. The increased income before income taxes resulted from the higher revenues combined with improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased 9%, mainly due to lower order levels in Tennessee due to fewer active communities.For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Southeast home sale revenues increased 22% compared with the prior year period due to an 11% increase in closings and a 9% increase in the average selling price.  The increase in closings was due to increases in Raleigh, Tennessee, and South Carolina.  The increase in average selling price was mainly due to increases in Raleigh and Tennessee.  The increased income before income taxes resulted from the higher revenues combined with improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders increased 7%, led by our operations in Raleigh.   44FloridaFlorida home sale revenues increased 40% during the third quarter of 2013 compared with the prior year period due to a 29% increase in closings and an 8% increase in the average selling price.  The increase in closings was concentrated in North Florida while the increase in average selling price occurred in both North and South Florida.  The increased income before income taxes resulted from the higher revenues combined with improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased 13% due to fewer active communities in North Florida.For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Florida home sale revenues increased 30% compared with the prior year period due to a 22% increase in closings and a 7% increase in the average selling price.  The increase in closings was concentrated in North Florida while the increase in average selling price occurred in both North and South Florida.  The increased income before income taxes resulted from the higher revenues combined with improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased 2%, due to fewer active communities in North Florida.TexasFor the third quarter of 2013, Texas home sale revenues increased 21% compared with the prior year period due to a 15% increase in the average selling price combined with a 6% increase in closings.  The increase in average selling price occurred across all local divisions, but was driven by our operations in Central Texas and was due in part to a shift in sales mix from first-time buyers to move-up buyers.  The increase in closings was concentrated in Central Texas.  The increased income before income taxes for the quarter resulted from the higher revenues and improved gross margins.  Net new orders decreased by 17%, driven mainly by fewer active communities.For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Texas home sale revenues increased 28% compared with the prior year period due to a 14% increase in closings and a 12% increase in average selling price.  The increase in closings was most significant in Houston and Central Texas, while the increase in average selling price was led by our operations in Central Texas and Dallas.  The increase in average selling price was due in part to a shift in sales from first-time buyers to move-up buyers.  The increased income before income taxes resulted from the higher revenues combined with improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased by 10%, driven mainly by fewer active communities.NorthFor the third quarter of 2013, North home sale revenues increased 19% compared with the prior year period due to a 7% increase in closings and an 11% increase in average selling price.  The increase in closing volumes was primarily due to significant increases in Michigan and Northern California.  The increase in average selling price was due to increases across all divisions.  The increase in income before income taxes resulted from the increased revenues combined with improved gross margins in every division.  Net new orders decreased by 23% compared with the prior year period mainly due to a decrease in Northern California, as we purposely slowed sales pace in a number of communities by raising prices and limiting lot releases.For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, North home sale revenues increased 28% compared with the prior year period due to a 13% increase in closings and a 13% increase in average selling price.  The increase in closing volumes was primarily due to significant increases in Michigan and Northern California.  The increase in average selling price was due to increases across all divisions.  The increase in income before income taxes resulted from the increased revenues combined with improved gross margins in every division and overall improved overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased by 7% as increases in Michigan, Illinois, and St. Louis were offset by a decrease in Northern California, as we purposely slowed sales pace in a number of communities by raising prices and limiting lot releases.SouthwestFor the third quarter of 2013, Southwest home sale revenues increased 10% compared with the prior year period due to a 12% increase in average selling price, offset in part by a 1% decrease in closings.  The increase in average selling price occurred across all divisions.  The decrease in closings was mainly due to decreases in Southern California and Las Vegas.  The increase in income before income taxes resulted from the higher revenues combined with improved gross margins.  Net new orders decreased by 26% compared with the prior year period, primarily due to fewer active communities in Arizona, Southern California, and Las Vegas. 45For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Southwest home sale revenues increased 31% compared with the prior year period due to a 13% increase in closings combined with a 16% increase in average selling price.  The increase in closings was mainly due to increases in Southern California, Las Vegas, and Arizona.  The increase in average selling price occurred across all divisions, but was most significant in Arizona and New Mexico.  The increase in income before income taxes resulted from the higher revenues combined with improved gross margins and overhead leverage.  Net new orders decreased by 26% compared with the prior year period, primarily due to fewer active communities in Arizona, Southern California, and Las Vegas, along with purposefully slowing the sales pace in a number of communities by raising prices and limiting lot releases.Financial Services OperationsWe conduct our Financial Services operations, which include mortgage and title operations, through Pulte Mortgage and other subsidiaries.  In originating mortgage loans, we initially use our own funds, including funds available pursuant to credit agreements with either third parties or with the Company.  Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold in the secondary market within a short period of time after origination, generally within 30 days.  We sell the servicing rights for the loans we originate through fixed price servicing sales contracts to reduce the risks and costs inherent in servicing loans.  This strategy results in owning the loans and related servicing rights for only a short period of time.  Operating as a captive business model primarily targeted to supporting our Homebuilding operations, the operating results of our Financial Services operations are highly correlated to Homebuilding.  Our Homebuilding customers continue to account for substantially all loan production.  We believe that our capture rate, which represents loan originations from our Homebuilding operations as a percentage of total loan opportunities from our Homebuilding operations, excluding cash closings, is an important metric in evaluating the effectiveness of our captive mortgage business model.  The following table presents selected financial information for our Financial Services operations ($000's omitted):                   Total Financial Services revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 decreased 27% and 2%, respectively, compared to the respective prior year periods.  These decreases are primarily attributable to lower revenues per loan resulting from the increased competitiveness in the mortgage industry that has occurred in recent months.  This decline in revenues per loan more than offset the higher loan origination volume.In recent years, the mortgage industry has experienced a significant overall tightening of lending standards and a shift toward agency production and fixed rate loans versus adjustable rate mortgages ( ARMs ) and unconventional loans.  The substantial majority of loan production during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 consisted of fixed rate loans, the majority of which are prime, conforming loans.  The shift toward agency fixed-rate loans has contributed to  46profitability as such loans generally result in higher profitability due to higher servicing values and structured guidelines that allow for expense efficiencies when processing the loan.  Additionally, historically low interest rates and the challenging regulatory environment has contributed to profitability by reducing the overall level of pricing competition in the market.  Recently, however, competition has increased in the industry, partially as the result of the mortgage industry's lower refinancing volume.Loan origination liabilitiesOur mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan.  If determined to be at fault, we either repurchase the loans from the investors or reimburse the investors' losses (a  make-whole  payment).  In recent years, we experienced a significant increase in losses related to repurchase requests as a result of the high level of loan defaults and related losses in the mortgage industry and increasing aggressiveness by investors in presenting such claims to us.  To date, the significant majority of these losses relates to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the mortgage origination market.  Given the volatility in the mortgage industry and the uncertainty regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates.  See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion.We entered into an agreement in conjunction with the wind down of Centex's mortgage operations, which ceased loan origination activities in December 2009, that provides a guaranty for one major investor of loans originated by Centex.  This guaranty provides that we will honor the potential repurchase obligations of Centex's mortgage operations related to breaches of representations and warranties in the origination of a certain pool of loans.  Other than with respect to this pool of loans, our contractual repurchase obligations are limited to our mortgage subsidiaries, which are included in non-guarantor subsidiaries (see Note 11 for a discussion of non-guarantor subsidiaries).The mortgage subsidiary of Centex also sold loans to a bank for inclusion in residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBSs ) issued by the bank.  In connection with these sales, Centex's mortgage subsidiary entered into agreements pursuant to which it may be required to indemnify the bank for losses incurred by investors in the RMBSs arising out of material errors or omissions in certain information provided by the mortgage subsidiary relating to the loans and loan origination process. In 2011, the bank notified us that it has been named defendant in two lawsuits alleging various violations of federal and state securities laws asserting that untrue statements of material fact were included in the registration statements used to market the sale of two RMBS transactions, which included $162 million of loans originated by Centex's mortgage subsidiary.  Neither Centex's mortgage subsidiary nor the Company is named as a defendant in these actions. These actions are in their preliminary stage, and we cannot yet quantify Centex's mortgage subsidiary's potential liability as a result of these indemnification obligations.  We do not believe, however, that these matters will have a material adverse impact on the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows of the Company.  We are aware of six other RMBS transactions with such indemnity provisions that include an aggregate $116 million of loans originated by Centex's mortgage subsidiary, and we are not aware of any current or threatened legal proceedings regarding those transactions.  Income TaxesOur effective tax rate is affected by a number of factors, the most significant of which are the valuation allowance related to our deferred tax assets and changes in our unrecognized tax benefits.  Due to the effects of these factors, our effective tax rates in 2013 and 2012 are not correlated to the amount of our pretax income or loss.  We evaluate our deferred tax assets each period to determine if a valuation allowance is required based on whether it is "more likely than not" that some portion of the deferred tax assets would not be realized.  The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of sufficient taxable income during future periods.  We conduct our evaluation by considering all available positive and negative evidence.Our income tax benefit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 includes $2.1 billion related to the reversal of substantially all of the valuation allowance previously recorded against our deferred tax assets.  We evaluated the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets at September 30, 2013, and determined that the valuation allowance against substantially all of our federal deferred tax assets and a significant portion of our state deferred tax assets was no longer required.  When a change in valuation allowance is recognized in an interim period, a portion of the valuation allowance to be reversed must be allocated to the remaining interim periods.  Accordingly, a portion of the remaining valuation  47allowance of $231.0 million at September 30, 2013 will reverse in the fourth quarter of 2013.  The other components of the remaining valuation allowance relate primarily to state net operating losses that have not met the "more likely than not" realization threshold. The principal positive evidence that led to the reversal of the valuation allowance as of September 30, 2013, included:  (1) our emergence from a three-year cumulative loss in 2013; (2) the significant positive income we generated during 2012 and 2013, including six consecutive quarters of pretax income; (3) continued improvements in 2013 over recent years in other key operating metrics, including revenues, gross margin, overhead leverage, and backlog; (4) our forecasted future profitability; (5) improvement in our financial position; and (6) significant evidence that conditions in the U.S. housing industry are more favorable than in recent years and our belief that conditions will continue to be favorable over the long-term.  Even if industry conditions weaken from current levels, we believe we will be able to adjust our operations to sustain long-term profitability.  The following provides a further summary of the principal evidence considered at September 30, 2013: Historical operating results:  Prior to 2007, we had a long history of profitability since our founding in 1950.  From 2007 through 2011, we incurred significant pretax losses due primarily to significant asset impairments combined with reduced operational profitability.  In the most recent three full calendar years ended December 31, 2012, our cumulative pretax losses totaled $1.4 billion, which included $1.2 billion of land and goodwill impairments.  These asset impairments and reduced operational profitability were triggered by the most severe and longest downturn in the history of the U.S. housing industry.     Recent operating results:  We generated significant pretax income in 2012 and year-to-date in 2013.  This included generating pretax income in six consecutive quarters.  Excluding asset impairments, we have been profitable in eight out of the last nine quarters.  As a result of this improved profitability, we exited a three-year cumulative loss position in 2013, which had been a significant piece of negative evidence prior to the third quarter of 2013. Future operating results:  We have a strong backlog of orders at September 30, 2013, that, combined with other factors, provides evidence of our ability to continue to be profitable for the fourth quarter of 2013 and beyond.  Based on detailed projections from each of our business units, we expect pretax earnings growth in the future, even if sales volumes remain at existing levels. Financial position:  We continue to generate significant cash flow from operations and had $1.4 billion of unrestricted cash and equivalents at September 30, 2013.  We have used our capital to both invest in our business and reduce our financial leverage.  During 2013, we increased our authorized investments in new communities via land acquisition and development, retired significant amounts of debt prior to the stated maturity dates, increased our authorized and actual common share repurchases, and reinstated a common share dividend. Recovery period for deferred tax assets:  For federal income tax purposes, we are allowed to carryforward net operating losses for 20 years and apply such losses to future taxable income to realize our federal deferred tax assets.  We believe that we will realize all of our federal net operating losses and will be able to absorb substantially all federal deductible temporary differences as they reverse in future years. Operating actions taken:  We have taken specific actions in recent years to improve our homebuilding operations, including: restructuring our overhead costs to align with current and projected volumes; improving inventory turns, including significant reductions in speculative home inventory; implementation of a robust risk-based portfolio approach to land acquisition approvals; monetization of under performing land assets; enhancing revenues through more strategic pricing, including establishing clear product offerings for each of our targeted consumer groups based on consumer-driven input, expanding the use of house options and lot premiums, and lessening our reliance on speculative home sales; and reducing our house construction costs through common house plan management, value-engineering house plans, and "should costing" our construction costs with our suppliers. Risk of future asset impairments:  The frequency and magnitude of asset impairments has decreased dramatically in recent years as assets have been written-down or sold and as industry conditions have improved.  While we remain at risk of future impairments if industry conditions worsen or if our strategy related to certain assets changes, we believe it unlikely that any future asset impairments would be at levels similar to those experienced during the U.S. housing industry downturn. Sales trends:  Our home closings and home sale revenues increased 13% and 24%, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared with the comparable period in 2012.  We also have a strong backlog of orders that is amongst the highest in the U.S. homebuilding industry.  At September 30, 2013, we had a backlog of 48$2.4 billion, an increase of 8% over September 30, 2012.  Additionally, the gross margin of orders within our backlog improved significantly from 2012 to 2013.  While our net new order units declined 8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared with the comparable period in 2012, this resulted primarily from an expected reduction in the number of our active communities, which are down 15% at September 30, 2013 from September 30, 2012.  The reduction in active communities and the lower level of net new orders is consistent with our expectations. U.S. housing industry outlook:  Various housing indices have shown significant improvement in recent periods.  U.S. single family new home sales of 306,000 in 2011 were at the lowest level since 1962, a drop of 76% from the 2005 cyclical peak of 1.3 million.  In 2012, new home sales increased 20%.  The August 2013 seasonally adjusted annual rate of single-family new home sales and of single-family housing starts increased 13% and 17%, respectively, over August 2012 levels.  The general consensus among industry analysts is that new home sales will increase significantly in each of the next several years.  These forecasts are generally consistent with the 25-year average of approximately 735,000 annual new home sales.  New home sales have experienced volatility in the June to September 2013 period as interest rates have risen.  While we believe that higher interest rates are inevitable and may have a moderating effect on demand and pricing, we believe this impact will be outweighed by the other factors driving increased sales activity as overall new home sales remain low compared to historical levels.  Ultimately, we believe that any sustained rise in interest rates will be indicative of a stronger macroeconomic environment that will support a continued recovery in the homebuilding industry.After careful evaluation of all available positive and negative evidence, and giving more weight to objectively verifiable evidence over more subjective evidence, we concluded as of September 30, 2013, that it was "more likely than not" that substantially all of our federal deferred tax assets and a significant portion of our state deferred tax assets would be realized.  Even if industry conditions weaken from current levels, we believe we will be able to adjust our operations to sustain long-term profitability.  Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe finance our land acquisition, development, and construction activities and financial services operations by using internally-generated funds supplemented by credit arrangements with third parties and capital market financing.  We routinely monitor current and expected operational requirements and financial market conditions to evaluate accessing other available financing sources, including revolving bank credit and securities offerings.  Based on our current financial condition and credit relationships, we believe that our operations and borrowing resources are sufficient to provide for our current and foreseeable capital requirements.  However, we continue to evaluate the impact of market conditions on our liquidity and may determine that modifications are appropriate.At September 30, 2013, we had unrestricted cash and equivalents of $1.3 billion and senior notes of $2.1 billion.  We also had restricted cash balances of $69.4 million, the substantial majority of which related to cash serving as collateral under certain letter of credit facilities.  Other financing sources include various letter of credit facilities and surety bond arrangements.  We follow a diversified investment approach for our cash and equivalents by maintaining such funds with a diversified portfolio of banks within our group of relationship banks in high quality, highly liquid, short-term investments, generally money market funds and federal government or agency securities.  We monitor our investments with each bank and do not believe our cash and equivalents are exposed to any material risk of loss.  However, there can be no assurances that losses of the principal balance of our cash and equivalents will not occur.Our ratio of debt to total capitalization, excluding our Financial Services borrowings, was 31.4% at September 30, 2013, and 12.4% net of cash and equivalents, including restricted cash.During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, we retired prior to their scheduled maturity dates $27.0 million and $461.4 million of senior notes, respectively.  We recorded losses related to these transactions totaling $3.9 million and $26.9 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively.  Losses on these transactions included the write-off of unamortized discounts, premiums, and transaction fees and are reflected in other expense (income), net.  During the  three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, we retired $96.4 million of senior notes at their scheduled maturity dates. 49Credit agreementsWe maintain separate cash-collateralized letter of credit agreements with a number of financial institutions.  Letters of credit totaling $53.7 million were outstanding under these agreements at September 30, 2013.  Under these agreements, we are required to maintain deposits with these financial institutions in amounts approximating the letters of credit outstanding.  Such deposits are included in restricted cash.We also maintain an unsecured letter of credit facility that expires in September 2014.  This facility permits the issuance of up to $150.0 million of letters of credit for general corporate purposes in support of any wholly-owned subsidiary.  Letters of credit totaling $124.4 million were outstanding under this facility at September 30, 2013.Pulte MortgagePulte Mortgage provides mortgage financing for the majority of our home closings by utilizing its own funds and funds made available pursuant to credit agreements with third parties or through intercompany borrowings.  Pulte Mortgage uses these resources to finance its lending activities until the mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market, which generally occurs within 30 days.  In September 2013 we entered into the First Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement with third party lenders, which extended the term of the Master Repurchase Agreement (the "Repurchase Agreement") through September 2014, modified the pricing applicable under the Repurchase Agreement, and made other adjustments to the credit available under the Repurchase Agreement.  The Repurchase Agreement provides for loan purchases of up to $150.0 million, subject to certain sublimits, and borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement are secured by residential mortgage loans available-for-sale.  At September 30, 2013, Pulte Mortgage had $115.1 million outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement.  While there can be no assurances that the Repurchase Agreement can be renewed or replaced on commercially reasonable terms upon its expiration, we believe we have adequate liquidity to meet Pulte Mortgage's anticipated financing needs.Dividends and share repurchase programsDuring the three months ended September 30, 2013, we declared two cash dividends of $0.05 per common share; the first paid in August 2013, the second in October 2013.In July 2013, we increased our common share repurchase authorization to $352.3 million of common shares.  During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we repurchased 5.3 million shares under the repurchase authorization for a total of $83.0 million.  At September 30, 2013, we had remaining authorization to repurchase $269.3 million of common shares. Cash flowsOperating activitiesOur net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, was $555.0 million, compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $421.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012.  Generally, the primary drivers of our cash flow from operations are profitability and changes in inventory levels.  Our positive cash flow from operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, was primarily due to our income before income taxes of $295.4 million combined with a net decrease in inventories of $89.0 million, a seasonal reduction of $22.0 million in residential mortgage loans available-for-sale, and a $97.6 million increase in accrued and other liabilities.  The inventory decrease resulted primarily from a significant reduction in spec homes in production, partially offset by a seasonal increase in sold homes in production.  The increase in accrued and other liabilities was due primarily to increased customer deposits related to our higher backlog levels relative to December 2012.  Our positive cash flow from operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, was mainly due to our changes in working capital, including a net decrease in inventory and an increase in accrued and other liabilities, combined with our income before income taxes for the period. Investing activitiesInvesting activities are generally not a significant source or use of cash for us.  Net cash used by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was $18.1 million, compared with net cash provided by investing activities of $22.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012.  The negative cash flow from investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was primarily due to capital expenditures.  The positive cash flow from investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 was mainly due to the reduction in restricted cash we are required to maintain related to our letter of credit facilities. 50Financing activitiesNet cash used by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 totaled $591.6 million, compared with net cash provided by financing activities of $37.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012.  The negative cash flow from financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 resulted primarily from the early retirement of senior notes, which used $485.9 million of cash, the repurchase of 5.3 million common shares for $83.0 million, payment of $19.3 million in cash dividends, and net repayments of $23.7 million for borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement.  InflationWe, and the homebuilding industry in general, may be adversely affected during periods of inflation because of higher land and construction costs.  Inflation may also increase our financing costs.  In addition, higher mortgage interest rates affect the affordability of our products to prospective homebuyers.  While we attempt to pass on to our customers increases in our costs through increased sales prices, market forces may limit our ability to do so.  If we are unable to raise sales prices enough to compensate for higher costs, or if mortgage interest rates increase significantly, our revenues, gross margins, and net income could be adversely affected.SeasonalityWe experience variability in our quarterly results from operations due to the seasonal nature of the homebuilding industry.  Historically, we have experienced increases in revenues and cash flow from operations during the fourth quarter based on the timing of home closings.Contractual Obligations and Commercial CommitmentsThere have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our "Contractual Obligations" contained in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 except for the aforementioned early retirement of senior notes.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe use letters of credit and surety bonds to guarantee our performance under various contracts, principally in connection with the development of our homebuilding projects.  The expiration dates of the letter of credit contracts coincide with the expected completion date of the related homebuilding projects.  If the obligations related to a project are ongoing, annual extensions of the letters of credit are typically granted on a year-to-year basis.  At September 30, 2013, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $178.1 million.  Surety bonds generally do not have stated expiration dates; rather, we are released from the bonds as the contractual performance is completed.  These bonds, which approximated $1.0 billion at September 30, 2013, are typically outstanding over a period of approximately three to five years.  Because significant construction and development work has been performed related to the applicable projects that has not yet received final acceptance by the respective counterparties, the aggregate amount of surety bonds outstanding is in excess of the projected cost of the remaining work to be performed.In the ordinary course of business, we enter into land option agreements in order to procure land for the construction of houses in the future.  At September 30, 2013, these agreements had an aggregate remaining purchase price of $1.4 billion.  Pursuant to these land option agreements, we provide a deposit to the seller as consideration for the right to purchase land at different times in the future, usually at predetermined prices.  In certain instances, we are required to record the land under option as if we own it.  At September 30, 2013, we consolidated certain land option agreements and recorded assets of $27.6 million as land, not owned, under option agreements.At September 30, 2013, aggregate outstanding debt of unconsolidated joint ventures was $10.1 million, of which our proportionate share of such joint venture debt was $3.0 million.  See Note 5 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 51Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThere have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared with those contained in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskQuantitative disclosureThe following tables set forth, as of September 30, 2013, the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair values of our rate-sensitive financing obligations ($000 s omitted).Qualitative disclosureThere have been no material changes to the qualitative disclosure found in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. 52SPECIAL NOTES CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSAs a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, are  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements.  You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events.  Generally, the words  believe,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   anticipate,   project,   may,   can,   could,   might,   will  and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which PulteGroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by PulteGroup in its homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with PulteGroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in PulteGroup's local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature.  See PulteGroup's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses.  PulteGroup undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in PulteGroup's expectations. 53Item 4.  Controls and ProceduresDisclosure Controls and ProceduresManagement, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2013.  Based upon, and as of the date of, that evaluation, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2013.Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 30, 2013 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II.  OTHER INFORMATION Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsIssuer Purchases of Equity Securities  (1)During the third quarter of 2013, a total of 28,234 shares were surrendered by employees for payment of minimum tax obligations upon the vesting or exercise of previously granted stock-based compensation awards.  Such shares were not repurchased as part of our publicly-announced stock repurchase programs.(2)Pursuant to the two $100 million share repurchase programs authorized and announced by our Board of Directors in October 2002 and October 2005, the $200 million share repurchase authorized and announced in February 2006, and the $250 million share repurchase authorization announced in July 2013 (for a total share repurchase authorization of $650 million), we have repurchased a total of 14,938,900 shares for a total of $380.7 million.  There are no expiration dates for the programs. 54Item 6.  ExhibitsExhibit Number and Description3 (a) Restated Articles of Incorporation, of PulteGroup, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on August 18, 2009)       (b) Certificate of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, dated March 18, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010)       (c) Certificate of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, dated May 21, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(c) of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010)       (d) By-laws, as amended, of PulteGroup, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on April 8, 2009)       (e) Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares, dated August 6, 2009 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) of our Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed with the SEC on August 18, 2009)     4 (a) Any instrument with respect to long-term debt, where the securities authorized thereunder do not exceed 10% of the total assets of PulteGroup, Inc. and its subsidiaries, has not been filed. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request.       (b) Amended and Restated Section 382 Rights Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2010, between PulteGroup, Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, which includes the Form of Rights Certificate as Exhibit B thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of PulteGroup, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A filed with the SEC on March 23, 2010)       (c) First Amendment, dated as of March 14, 2013, to the Amended and Restated Section 382 Rights Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2010, between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2013)     10 (a) First Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement dated September 13, 2013, among Comerica Bank, as Agent and a Buyer, the other Buyers party hereto and Pulte Mortgage LLC, as Seller (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 18, 2013)     31 (a)  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith)       (b)  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith)     32    Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code   1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Filed herewith)     101.INS    XBRL Instance Document     101.SCH    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document     101.CAL    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document     101.DEF    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document     101.LAB    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document     101.PRE    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 55SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  PULTEGROUP, INC.          /s/ Robert T. O'Shaughnessy Robert T. O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and duly authorized officer) Date:October 24, 2013  56   