<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10k2004.txt
<DESCRIPTION>O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC 2004 10K
<TEXT>


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004

                                       OR

( )  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

          For the transition period from ____________ to _____________

                         Commission file number 0-21318

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Missouri                                        44-0618012
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction                  (IRS Employer Identification No.)
    of incorporation or
      organization)

                               233 South Patterson
                           Springfield, Missouri 65802
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices, zip code)

                                 (417) 862-6708
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes X    No ______

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained here, and will not be contained,  to the best
of the registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by a check mark  whether the  registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).   Yes X    No _____

At February 25, 2005, an aggregate of  55,421,404  shares of the common stock of
the registrant was  outstanding.  As of that date, the aggregate market value of
the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the  Company  was  approximately
$2,762,756,989  based on the last sale price of the common stock reported by the
Nasdaq Stock Market (National Market).

At June 30, 2004, an aggregate of  55,063,579  shares of the common stock of the
registrant was  outstanding.  As of that date, the aggregate market value of the
voting  stock  held  by   non-affiliates   of  the  Company  was   approximately
$2,488,873,771  based on the last sale price of the common stock reported by the
Nasdaq Stock Market (National Market).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

As provided below,  portions of the registrant's  documents  specified below are
incorporated here by reference:

            Document                                       Part-Form 10-K
-------------------------------------------         ----------------------------

Portions of the Annual Shareholders' Report
for the Year Ended December 31, 2004                           Part II

Proxy Statement for 2005 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A within 120 days of the end of
registrant's most recently completed fiscal year)              Part III


<page>
Forward Looking Information

     We claim the protection of the safe-harbor for  forward-looking  statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You
can  identify  these  statements  by  forward-looking  words  such as  "expect,"
"believe," "anticipate," "good," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "project," "will"
or similar words. In addition,  statements  contained  within this annual report
that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements
discussing among other things,  expected growth, store development and expansion
strategy,  business  strategies,  future revenues and future performance.  These
forward-looking  statements  are based on  estimates,  projections,  beliefs and
assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements
are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions,  including, but not limited
to,  competition,  product  demand,  the market for auto  parts,  the economy in
general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to
hire and retain  qualified  employees,  risks associated with the integration of
acquired businesses,  weather,  terrorist activities, war and the threat of war.
Actual  results may  materially  differ from  anticipated  results  described or
implied in these  forward-looking  statements.  Please refer to the Risk Factors
sections  of this  annual  report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
2004,  for  additional  factors  that  could  materially  affect  our  financial
performance.

                                                                PART I
Item 1.  Business

General

     O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. is one of the largest  specialty  retailers  of
automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies,  equipment and accessories in the
United States,  selling our products to both do-it-yourself  (DIY) customers and
professional  installers.  At December  31,  2004,  we operated  1,249 stores in
Alabama, Arkansas,  Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
Louisiana,  Mississippi,  Missouri,  Nebraska,  North Carolina,  Oklahoma, South
Carolina,  Tennessee,  Texas and Virginia. Our stores carry an extensive product
line consisting of:

o    new  and  remanufactured   automotive  hard  parts,  such  as  alternators,
     starters,  fuel pumps, water pumps, brake shoes and pads, chassis parts and
     engine parts;

o    maintenance items, such as oil,  antifreeze,  fluids,  engine additives and
     appearance products;

o    accessories, such as floor mats and seat covers; and

o    a complete line of autobody paint and related  materials,  automotive tools
     and professional service equipment.

     We do not sell tires or perform automotive repairs or installations.

     We were  founded  in 1957 by Charles F.  O'Reilly  and his son,  Charles H.
''Chub''   O'Reilly,   Sr.  and  initially  operated  from  a  single  store  in
Springfield,  Missouri.  The O'Reilly  family has managed the Company  since our
inception.

     Our goal is to continue  to achieve  growth in sales and  profitability  by
capitalizing  on  our  competitive  advantages  and  executing  our  growth  and
expansion strategies.

     Our Internet address is www.oreillyauto.com.  Interested readers can access
the  Company's  annual  reports  on Form 10-K,  quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q,
current  reports  on Form 8-K,  and any  amendments  to those  reports  filed or
furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934, as amended,  through the  Securities and Exchange  Commissions  website at
www.sec.gov.  Such  reports are  generally  available on the day they are filed.
Additionally,  the Company will furnish  interested readers a paper copy of such
reports, upon request, free of charge.

     See "Risk Factors"  beginning on page 11 for a description of certain risks
relevant to our  business.  These risk  factors  include,  among  others,  risks
related  to  competition  in the  automotive  aftermarket  business,  our growth
strategy,  our acquisition  strategy,  our sensitivity to regional  economic and
weather  conditions,  our  dependence  upon  key  and  other  personnel  and the
significant voting control held by our principal shareholders.

                                       2

<page>



Competitive Advantages

     Proven  Ability to Execute  Dual Market  Strategy.  We have an  established
track record of serving  both DIY  customers  and  professional  installers.  We
believe  our  ability  to  execute  a  dual  market  strategy  is a  competitive
advantage, which enables us to:

o    target a larger base of consumers of automotive aftermarket parts;

o    capitalize on our existing retail and distribution infrastructure;

o    profitably  operate  both in  large  markets  and  less  densely  populated
     geographic areas that typically attract fewer competitors; and

o    enhance  service  levels  offered to our DIY  customers by offering a broad
     selection of stock  keeping units (SKUs) and  extensive  product  knowledge
     required by professional installers.

     We have been  committed to a dual market  strategy  for over 20 years.  For
2004, we derived  approximately  52% of our product sales from our DIY customers
and approximately 48% from our professional installer customers.  As a result of
our  historical  success  in  executing  our dual  market  strategy  and our 172
full-time sales representatives  dedicated solely to calling upon and selling to
the  professional   installer,   we  believe  we  will  increase  the  sales  to
professional  installers  and  have a  competitive  advantage  over  our  retail
competitors   who  have  only  recently   entered  and  begun  focusing  on  the
professional installer market.

     Superior  Customer  Service.  We seek to attract  new DIY and  professional
installer  customers  and to retain  existing  customers  by  offering  superior
customer service, the key elements of which include:

o    superior in-store service through highly-motivated,  technically proficient
     store personnel  (Professional  Parts People) using advanced  point-of-sale
     systems;

o    an extensive selection of products;

o    attractive stores in convenient locations; and

o    competitive pricing, with a low price guarantee.

     Technically  Proficient  Professional  Parts People.  Our highly proficient
Professional Parts People provide us with a significant  competitive  advantage,
particularly over less specialized retail operators. We require our Professional
Parts People to undergo  extensive  and ongoing  training and to be  technically
knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts, in order to better serve
the  technically-oriented  professional  installers with whom they interact on a
daily basis.  Such technical  proficiency  also enhances the customer service we
provide to our DIY customers,  who appreciate the expert assistance  provided by
our Professional Parts People.

     Strategic   Distribution   Systems.   We   believe   that  the   geographic
concentration  of our store  network in nineteen,  contiguous  states  (Alabama,
Arkansas,   Florida,  Georgia,   Illinois,   Indiana,  Iowa,  Kansas,  Kentucky,
Louisiana,  Mississippi,  Missouri,  Nebraska,  North Carolina,  Oklahoma, South
Carolina,  Tennessee, Texas and Virginia) and the strategic locations of our ten
distribution  centers enable us to maintain optimum  inventory levels throughout
our store  network.  In addition,  our  inventory  management  and  distribution
systems  electronically  link  each  of our  stores  to a  distribution  center,
providing for  efficient  inventory  control and  management.  Our  distribution
system  provides  each of our stores with same day or  overnight  access to over
100,000  SKUs,  many of which are hard to find  items not  typically  stocked by
other parts retailers.  We believe the availability of a broad range of products
is a key  competitive  advantage in satisfying  customer  demand and  generating
repeat business.

     Experienced Management Team. Our management team has a demonstrated ability
to  successfully  execute our business plan,  including the  identification  and
integration of strategic  acquisitions.  We have experienced  twelve consecutive
years of record  revenues and earnings growth since becoming a public company in
April  1993.  We  have  a  strong  senior   management   team  comprised  of  60
professionals  who  average  over 16  years  of  experience  with  O'Reilly.  In
addition,  our 90 corporate managers average over 13 years of experience with us
and our 117 district managers average over 9 years of experience with us.

                                       3

<page>

Growth and Expansion Strategies

     Aggressively  Open New Stores.  We intend to continue to aggressively  open
new stores in order to achieve  greater  penetration in existing  markets and to
expand into new, contiguous markets. We plan to open approximately 160 stores in
2005 and  approximately  170-180 stores in 2006. A majority of the sites for our
proposed  2005 store  openings  and several of the sites for our  proposed  2006
store openings have been identified.  In selecting sites for new stores, we seek
to strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order
to achieve  economies  of scale in areas  such as  management,  advertising  and
distribution.

     We target  both small  (population  less than  100,000)  and large  markets
(population greater than 100,000) for expansion of our store network. Of the 140
net, new stores added in 2004,  30 are located in Alabama,  2 in Arkansas,  3 in
Florida, 14 in Georgia, 13 in Illinois, 2 in Indiana, 1 in Iowa, 1 in Kansas, 14
in Kentucky,  6 in  Louisiana,  15 in  Mississippi,  10 in Missouri,  6 in North
Carolina,  1 in Oklahoma,  1 in South Carolina,  15 in Tennessee and 6 in Texas.
While we have faced, and expect to continue to face, more aggressive competition
in the  more  densely  populated  markets,  we  believe  that we  have  competed
effectively, and that we are well positioned to continue to compete effectively,
in such markets and achieve our goal of continued sales and profit growth within
these markets. We also believe that because of our dual market strategy,  we are
better  able to  operate  stores in less  densely  populated  areas  within  our
regional market,  which would not otherwise support a national or regional chain
store selling to one portion of the market or the other. Consequently, we expect
to continue to open new stores in less densely populated market areas.

     To date,  we have  experienced  no  significant  difficulties  in  locating
suitable  store sites for  construction  of new stores or  identifying  suitable
acquisition  candidates for conversion to O'Reilly stores. We typically open new
stores either by (i) constructing a new store at a site we purchase or lease and
stocking  the new store  with  fixtures  and  inventory,  or (ii)  acquiring  an
independently owned auto parts store, typically by the purchase of substantially
all of the inventory  and other assets (other than realty) of such store.  Store
sites are  strategically  located  in  clusters  within  geographic  areas  that
complement  our  distribution  system in order to achieve  economies of scale in
management, advertising and distribution costs. Other key factors we consider in
the site selection process include population  density and growth patterns,  age
and per capita income,  vehicle traffic counts,  the number and type of existing
automotive  repair  facilities,  other  competing  auto parts stores,  and other
competitors within a pre-determined radius, and the operational strength of such
competitors.  When entering new, more densely  populated  markets,  we generally
seek to initially  open several  stores  within a short span of time in order to
maximize  the  effect  of  initial  promotional  programs  and  achieve  further
economies of scale.

     Same store growth  through  increased  sales and  profitability  is also an
important  part  of  our  growth   strategy.   To  achieve  improved  sales  and
profitability at existing O'Reilly stores, we continually strive to improve upon
the service provided to our customers. We believe that while competitive pricing
is  essential  in the  competitive  environment  of the  automotive  aftermarket
business,   it  is  customer  satisfaction  (whether  of  the  DIY  consumer  or
professional installer), resulting from superior customer service that generates
increased sales and profitability.

     Selectively   Pursue  Strategic   Acquisitions.   Although  the  automotive
aftermarket  industry  is still  highly  fragmented,  we believe  the ability of
national and regional specialty retail chains, such as O'Reilly, to operate more
efficiently than smaller independent operators or mass merchandisers will result
in continued  industry  consolidation.  Thus,  we intend to  selectively  pursue
acquisition  targets that will  strengthen our position as a leading  automotive
products retailer.

     Continually Enhance Store Design and Location.  Our current prototype store
design features  enhancements  such as greater square footage,  higher ceilings,
more convenient  interior store layouts,  brighter  lighting,  increased parking
availability  and  dedicated  counters to serve  professional  installers,  each
designed  to  increase  product  sales and  operating  efficiencies  and enhance
customer service.  We continually update the location and condition of our store
network through  systematic  renovation and relocation of our existing stores to
conform  with our  prototype  store  design.  We  believe  that our  ability  to
consistently  achieve  growth in same store  product sales is due in part to our
commitment to maintaining an attractive  store network,  which is  strategically
located to best serve our customers.

                                       4

<page>

Products and Purchasing

     Our stores offer DIY and professional  installer customers a wide selection
of brand name and private label products for domestic and imported  automobiles,
vans  and  trucks.  We do not  sell  tires  or  perform  automotive  repairs  or
installations.  Our  merchandise  generally  consists of nationally  recognized,
well-advertised,  name brand products such as AC Delco,  Moog,  Murray,  Wagner,
Gates Rubber, Federal Mogul, Monroe, Prestone, Quaker State, Pennzoil,  Castrol,
Valvoline, STP, BWD, Cardone, Wix, Armor All and Turtle Wax. In addition to name
brand products,  our stores carry a wide variety of  high-quality  private label
products under our O'Reilly Auto Parts,  SuperStart,  BrakeBest,  Ultima, Master
Pro and  Omnispark  proprietary  name brands.  Because most of our private label
products are produced by nationally recognized  manufacturers in accordance with
our specifications,  we believe that the private label products are generally of
equal or, in some cases,  better quality than comparable name brand products,  a
characteristic which is important to our professional  installer  clientele.  We
further  believe that the private label  products are packaged  attractively  to
promote  customer  interest and are generally priced below comparable name brand
products carried in our stores.

     We purchase  automotive  products from approximately 530 vendors,  the five
largest of which accounted for approximately 37% of our total purchases in 2004.
Our  largest  vendor  in  2004  accounted  for  approximately  18% of our  total
purchases  and  the  next  four  largest  vendors  accounted  for 4 - 7% of such
purchases each. We have no long-term  contractual  purchase commitments with any
of our vendors,  nor have we  experienced  difficulty in obtaining  satisfactory
alternative  sources of supply for automotive parts. We believe that alternative
supply sources exist at  substantially  similar  costs,  for  substantially  all
automotive  products that we sell. It is our policy to take advantage of payment
and  seasonal  purchasing  discounts  offered  by our  vendors,  and to  utilize
extended  dating terms available from vendors due to volume  purchasing.  During
2004,  we entered into various  programs  and  arrangements  with certain of our
vendors  that  provide  for  extended  dating and  payment  terms for  inventory
purchases,  including  pay-on-scan  arrangements.  We consider our relationships
with our suppliers to be good.

Inflation and Seasonality

     We have  been  successful,  in many  cases,  in  reducing  the  effects  of
merchandise  cost increases  principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive
programs,  economies of scale  resulting from increased  volume of purchases and
selective  forward  buying.  As a result,  we do not believe our operations have
been materially affected by inflation.

     Our business is seasonal to some extent primarily as a result of the impact
of weather  conditions on store sales. Store sales and profits have historically
been higher in the second and third quarters  (April through  September) of each
year than in the first and fourth quarters.

                                       5


<page>
Store Network

     Store Locations.  As a result of our dual market  strategy,  we are able to
profitably  operate in both large,  densely  populated  markets and less densely
populated  areas that would not otherwise  support a national or regional  chain
selling to just one portion of the automotive  aftermarket.  The following table
sets forth the geographic distribution of our stores:

<table>
<caption>
                                State              Number of Stores
                           ---------------       --------------------
                           <S>                          <C>
                           Alabama                         73
                           Arkansas                        74
                           Florida                         10
                           Georgia                         22
                           Illinois                        32
                           Indiana                          8
                           Iowa                            65
                           Kansas                          58
                           Kentucky                        35
                           Louisiana                       56
                           Mississippi                     47
                           Missouri                       142
                           Nebraska                        24
                           North Carolina                  21
                           Oklahoma                       100
                           South Carolina                   1
                           Tennessee                       93
                           Texas                          387
                           Virginia                         1
                                                 --------------------
                           Total                        1,249
</table>

     Our  stores  on  average  carry  approximately   23,000  SKUs  and  average
approximately  6,700 total square feet in size.  At December 31, 2004,  we had a
total of approximately  8.3 million square feet in our 1,249 stores.  Our stores
are served primarily by the nearest distribution center, but also have access to
the broader  selection of inventory  available at one of our 85 Master Inventory
Stores,   which  on  average  carry   approximately   36,000  SKUs  and  average
approximately 8,800 square feet in size. Master Inventory Stores, in addition to
serving DIY and professional  installer customers in their markets, also provide
our other stores  within  their area access to a greater  selection of SKUs on a
same-day basis.

     We believe that our stores are ''destination  stores'' generating their own
traffic  rather than relying on traffic  created by the presence of other stores
in the immediate  vicinity.  Consequently,  most of our stores are  freestanding
buildings  situated  on or near major  traffic  thoroughfares,  and offer  ample
parking and easy customer access.

     Store  Layout.  We  utilize a  computer-assisted  ''plan-o-grammed''  store
layout  system to provide a uniform  and  consistent  merchandise  presentation;
however,  some  variation  occurs  in  order  to meet  the  specific  needs of a
particular market area.  Merchandise is arranged to provide easy customer access
and maximum selling space, keeping high-turnover products and accessories within
view of the customer.  Aisle displays are generally used to feature  high-demand
or seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials.

     Store  Automation.  To enhance store level operations and customer service,
we use IBM AS/400  computer  systems in all of our  stores.  These  systems  are
linked  with  the IBM  AS/400  computers  located  in  each of our  distribution
centers. Our point-of-sale  terminals provide immediate access to our electronic
catalog to display  parts and  pricing  information  by make,  model and year of
vehicle and use bar code  scanning  technology  to price our  merchandise.  This
system speeds  transaction  times,  reduces register lines and provides enhanced
customer  service.   Moreover,   our  store  automation  systems  capture  sales
information which assists in store  management,  strategic  planning,  inventory
control and distribution efficiency.

                                       6

<page>

     New Store Site  Selection.  In selecting  sites for new stores,  we seek to
strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to
achieve economies of scale in management,  advertising and  distribution.  Other
key factors we consider in the site selection process include:

o    population density and growth patterns;

o    age and per capita income;

o    vehicle traffic counts;

o    the number and type of existing automotive repair facilities; and

o    the  number  of  auto  parts   stores  and  other   competitors   within  a
     pre-determined radius and the operational strength of such competitors.

     When entering new, more densely  populated  markets,  we generally  seek to
initially  open several  stores within a short span of time in order to maximize
the effect of initial  promotional  programs  and achieve  further  economies of
scale.  After  opening  this  initial  cluster of new  stores,  we seek to begin
penetrating the less densely populated  surrounding areas. This strategy enables
us to achieve  additional  distribution  and  advertising  efficiencies  in each
market.

Distribution System

     The  following  table sets  forth the  distribution  centers  we  currently
operate:

<table>
<caption>
                                          Square Footage
                     ------------------------------------------------------
     Location        Distribution Center (1)      Office          Total
-----------------    ----------------------    ------------    ------------
<S>                               <C>               <C>           <C>
Dallas, TX                          442,376          21,889         464,265
Des Moines, IA                      220,691           8,325         229,016
Houston, TX                         508,858          21,280         530,138
Kansas City, MO                     128,064           2,590         130,654
Knoxville, TN                       153,664           9,725         163,389
Little Rock, AR                     119,852           7,200         127,052
Mobile, AL                          301,068          23,721         324,789
Nashville, TN                       398,641          35,000         433,641
Oklahoma City, OK                   301,745           5,940         307,685
Springfield, MO                     440,850         111,122 (2)     551,972
                     ----------------------    ------------    ------------
                                  3,015,809         246,792        3,262,601
<fn>

(1)  Includes both floor and mezzanine square footage.

(2)  Includes  square  footage  for  corporate  offices,  technical  center  and
     training center.

</fn>
</table>
     Adjacent to the Springfield,  Missouri  distribution  center,  we operate a
36,000 square foot bulk merchandise  warehouse used for the distribution of bulk
products such as motor oil,  antifreeze,  batteries,  lubricants  and other fast
moving  bulk  products,  and a 22,000  square  foot  returned  goods  processing
facility, that is included in the above square footage. We also operate a 17,500
square  foot bulk  warehouse  in  McAllen,  Texas that  serves  the  surrounding
distribution centers with bulk products.

     Our  distribution  centers  are  equipped  with highly  automated  conveyor
systems,  which  expedite  the  movement of our  products  to loading  areas for
shipment to  individual  stores on a nightly  basis.  The  distribution  centers
utilize  computer-assisted  technology  to  electronically  receive  orders from
computers  located in each of our  stores.  In  addition  to the bar code system
employed in our stores, we have established a  satellite-based  data interchange
system among those stores in which  high-speed data  transmission  technology is
not readily available,  the distribution  center, which services such stores and
our corporate headquarters.

     We  believe  that  our  distribution  system  assists  us in  lowering  our
inventory-carrying   costs,   improving  our  store  in-stock   positions,   and
controlling and managing our inventory.  Moreover, we believe that our expanding
network of distribution  centers allows us to more efficiently  service existing
stores,  as well as new stores  planned for opening in contiguous  market areas.
Our  distribution  center  expansion  strategy  also  complements  our new store
opening strategy by supporting newly  established  clusters of stores located in
the regions  surrounding  each  distribution  center.  As part of our continuing
efforts to enhance our distribution network, in 2005 we plan to:

                                       7

<page>

o    continue to implement  improvement plans to increase  inventory turnover in
     all distribution centers; and

o    implement a hands free/eyes free voice picking system; and

o    upgrade  material  handling  equipment  in  several   distribution  centers
     including conveyor systems, forklifts and racking.

Marketing

     Marketing  to the  DIY  Customer.  We  aggressively  promote  sales  to DIY
customers through an extensive advertising program,  which includes direct mail,
newspaper, radio and television advertising in selected markets. We believe that
our  advertising and  promotional  activities have resulted in significant  name
recognition in each of our market areas.  Newspaper and radio advertisements are
generally directed towards specific product and price promotions,  frequently in
connection  with  specific sale events and  promotions.  To promote sales to car
enthusiasts,  who we believe on an  individual  basis  spend more on  automotive
products than the public generally, we sponsor 16 nationally televised races and
over 288  motorsports  races and car shows at over 200  facilities in 18 states,
including, 3 NASCAR Craftsmen Truck Series Races, 2 NASCAR Busch Series Races in
Dallas,  5 National  Hotrod Racing  Association  races,  as well as the O'Reilly
Chili Bowl.  O'Reilly  Auto Parts is the  "official  auto parts  store" of Texas
Motor Speedway, Kansas Speedway,  Bristol Motor Speedway,  Houston Raceway Park,
Texas  Motorplex,   Memphis  Motorsports  Park,  Heartland  Park  and  Talladega
Speedway.

     Beginning in 2003,  we started  work on branding  the O'Reilly  name in the
National  Collegiate  Athletic  Association,  also known as the NCAA.  Our first
initiative  was to  partner  with  Texas  Tech  University  through a variety of
programs  including  sponsoring of a television show featuring Bobby Knight, the
coach  of the  men's  basketball  team at Texas  Tech  University,  placing  the
O'Reilly  logo on the home  basketball  court and coach  Knight's  sweater,  and
advertising  on the backs of seats and banners for the scoring  table.  This has
lead  to  additional   opportunities   with  approximately  24  colleges  and  3
conferences  in our  current  markets.  We have found that the more  progressive
marketing  concepts  utilized  in the DIY  portion of our  business  can also be
applied to increase sales to our professional installer customers.

     Marketing  to the  Professional  Installer.  We  have  over  172  full-time
O'Reilly  sales  representatives  strategically  located  in  the  more  densely
populated  market areas that we serve,  and each is dedicated  solely to calling
upon and selling to the professional installer. Our First Call program, which is
our commitment to the professional  customer,  includes a dedicated sales force,
sales and  promotions  directed  to the  professional  installer  and  overnight
delivery  service from the  distribution  center to the  professional  customer.
Moreover,  each district manager and store manager  throughout our store network
calls upon  existing and  potential new  professional  installer  customers on a
regular basis. Our First Call marketing  strategy,  with respect to professional
installers, emphasizes our ability to offer:

o    prompt delivery using small trucks or vans operated by virtually all of our
     stores;

o    a separate  counter in all of our stores  dedicated  exclusively to serving
     professional installers;

o    trade credit for qualified professional installers;

o    broad inventory of merchandise and competitive pricing;

o    a  professional  installer  computer  system that connects  directly to our
     inventory system; and

o    seminars concerning topics of interest to professional installers,  such as
     technical updates, safety and general business management.

     Marketing to the Independently  Owned Parts Store. Along with the operation
of the distribution  centers and the distribution of automotive  products to the
O'Reilly  stores,  Ozark  Automotive  Distributors,   Inc.  (Ozark)  also  sells
automotive  products to independently owned parts stores whose retail stores are
generally  located in areas not serviced by an O'Reilly  store.  We generally do
not compete with any independently owned parts store to which we sell automotive
products,   but  have,  on  occasion,   acquired  the  business   assets  of  an
independently  owned  parts  store  supplied by Ozark.  Ozark  operates  its own
separate  marketing program to independently  owned parts stores through a staff
of three.

                                       8

<page>

     Of  the  approximately  215  independently  owned  parts  stores  currently
purchasing  automotive  products from Ozark,  211  participate in the Auto Value
program through Ozark. As a participant in this program,  an independently owned
parts store which meets certain minimum  financial and operational  standards is
permitted to indicate its Auto Value membership  through the display of the Auto
Value logo, which is owned by The Alliance,  Inc.  (formerly known as Auto Value
Associates,  Inc.), a non-profit buying group consisting of approximately  4,500
members as of December 31, 2004, including O'Reilly, engaged in the distribution
or sale  of  automotive  products.  Additionally,  we  provide  advertising  and
promotional  assistance to Auto Value stores purchasing automotive products from
Ozark,  as well as marketing  and sales  support.  In return for a commitment to
purchase  automotive  products from Ozark, we offer  assistance to an Auto Value
independently  owned  parts  store by making  available  computer  software  for
inventory control.

Management Structure

     Each of our  stores  is  staffed  with a  store  manager  and an  assistant
manager, in addition to the parts specialists and support staff required to meet
the specific needs of each store.  Each of our 117 district managers has general
supervisory  responsibility  for an average of 11 stores  within such  manager's
district.

     Each  district  manager  receives  comprehensive  training on a  bi-monthly
basis, focusing on management techniques,  new product  announcements,  advanced
automotive  systems and our policies and  procedures.  In turn, the  information
covered at such bi-monthly meetings is discussed in full by district managers at
bi-monthly  meetings  with their store  managers.  All  assistant  managers  and
manager  trainees  are  required to  successfully  complete a six-month  manager
training program, which includes classroom and field training, as a prerequisite
to becoming a store manager. This program covers operations extensively, as well
as principles of successful management.  Shortly after becoming a store manager,
all managers  attend a manager  development  program,  at the  corporate  office
headquarters,  which includes 40 hours of classroom training.  Upon returning to
the stores,  managers  are given  continuous  field  training  throughout  their
management experience.

     We provide financial  incentives to our district managers,  store managers,
assistant  managers  and sales  specialists  through an  incentive  compensation
program.  Under our incentive  compensation program, base salary is augmented by
incentive  compensation  based upon the  achievement of sales and  profitability
goals.  We  believe  that  our  incentive   compensation  program  significantly
increases the  motivation  and overall  performance  of our  Professional  Parts
People and our  ability to attract  and retain  qualified  management  and other
personnel.

     Most of our current senior management, district managers and store managers
were promoted to their positions from within the Company.  Our senior management
team  averages  16 years of  experience  with the  Company,  corporate  managers
average over 13 years of service and district managers have an average length of
service with the Company of over 9 years.

Professional Parts People

     We  believe  our  highly  trained  team of  Professional  Parts  People  is
essential in providing  superior service both to DIY and professional  installer
customers.  Each of our Professional  Parts People is required to be technically
proficient in the workings and  application  of  automotive  products due to the
significant portion of our business  represented by the professional  installer.
In addition,  we have found that the typical DIY customer often seeks assistance
from sales persons,  particularly in connection with the purchase of hard parts.
We believe  that the ability of our  Professional  Parts  People to provide such
assistance  to  the  DIY  customer  creates  a  favorable  impression  during  a
customer's visit to our store and is a significant  factor in generating  repeat
DIY business.

                                       9

<page>

     We  screen  prospective  employees,  whom we refer to as team  members,  to
identify highly motivated individuals either with experience in automotive parts
or repairs, or an aptitude for automotive  knowledge.  Each person who becomes a
team member first  participates  in an  intensive  two-day  orientation  program
designed to  introduce  the team member to our culture and his or her job duties
before being assigned specific job  responsibilities.  The successful completion
of additional training is required before a team member is deemed qualified as a
parts  specialist  and  thus  able to work at the  parts  counter  of one of our
stores. All new counter people are required to successfully complete a six-month
basic  automotive  systems  training course and are then enrolled in a six-month
advanced  automotive  systems course for certification by the National Institute
for Automotive Service  Excellence (ASE),  which administers  national exams for
various  automotive  specialties and requires ASE certified  specialists to take
recertification exams every five years.

     Each of our stores  participates in our sales specialist  training program.
Under this program,  selected team members  complete two days of extensive sales
call  training  for  business  development,  after which these team members will
spend  one day per week  calling  on  existing  and new  professional  installer
customers.  Additionally, each team member engaged in such sales activities will
participate  in  quarterly  advanced  training  programs  for sales and business
development.

Customer Service

     We seek to provide our customers  with an efficient  and pleasant  in-store
experience by maintaining  attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide
selection of automotive  products.  We believe that the  satisfaction of DIY and
professional installer customers is substantially  dependent upon our ability to
provide,  in a  timely  fashion,  the  specific  automotive  product  requested.
Accordingly,  each  O'Reilly  store  carries  a broad  selection  of  automotive
products  designed  to  cover  a  wide  range  of  vehicle  specifications.   We
continuously  refine the inventory levels carried in our stores,  based in large
part on the sales movement shown by our  computerized  inventory  control system
and on management's assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace.

Pricing

     We believe that a competitive  pricing  policy is essential  within product
categories  in order to  compete  successfully.  Product  pricing  is  generally
established  to meet the  pricing  policies  of  competitors  in the market area
served  by each  store.  Most  automotive  products  that we sell are  priced at
discounts to the  manufacturer  suggested  prices,  and  additional  savings are
offered through volume  discounts and special  promotional  pricing.  Consistent
with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price
on any in-stock product of the same or comparable  quality offered by any of our
competitors.

Competition

     We  compete  in both the DIY and  professional  installer  portions  of the
automotive aftermarket. We compete primarily with:

o    national and  regional  retail  automotive  parts chains (such as AutoZone,
     Inc.,  Advance Auto Parts,  CSK Auto Corp. and The Pep Boys-Manny,  Moe and
     Jack, Inc.);

o    independently owned parts stores;

o    wholesalers  or jobber stores (some of which are  associated  with national
     automotive parts distributors or associations such as NAPA and CarQuest);

o    automobile dealers; and

o    mass  merchandisers that carry automotive  replacement  parts,  maintenance
     items and accessories (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.).

     We compete on the basis of customer  service,  which  includes  merchandise
selection and  availability,  price,  helpfulness  of store  personnel and store
layout and location.

                                       10
<page>
Team Members

     As of December 31,  2004,  we had 14,149  full-time  team members and 3,261
part-time team members,  of whom 13,582 were employed at our stores,  2,818 were
employed at our  distribution  centers and 1,010 were  employed at our corporate
and  administrative  headquarters.  Our  team  members  are  not  subject  to  a
collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with our team members
to be  excellent,  and strive to promote  good  relations  with our team members
through various programs designed for such purposes.

Servicemarks and Trademarks

     We have  registered the  servicemarks  O'Reilly  Automotive,  O'Reilly Auto
Parts,  and Parts Payoff and the trademarks  SuperStart,  BrakeBest,  Omnispark,
First  Call,  Ultima,  and  Master  Pro.  Further,  we are  licensed  to use the
registered  trademarks and servicemarks Auto Value and Parts Master owned by The
Alliance  (formerly  Auto Value  Associates)  in  connection  with our marketing
program.  We believe  that our  business  is not  otherwise  dependent  upon any
patent, trademark, servicemark or copyright.

Regulations

     Although subject to various laws and governmental  regulations  relating to
our business, including those related to the environment, we do not believe that
compliance with such laws and  regulations has a material  adverse effect on our
operations.  Further, we are unaware of any failure to comply with any such laws
and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  We
can not give any assurance, however, that we will not incur significant expenses
in the future in order to comply with any such law or regulation.

Risk Factors

     The risk factors listed in this section, as well as any cautionary language
in this  Form  10-K,  are  subject  to  risks,  uncertainties  and  assumptions,
including, but not limited to, competition,  product demand, the market for auto
parts,  the economy in general,  inflation,  consumer debt levels,  governmental
approvals, our ability to hire and retain qualified employees,  risks associated
with the integration of acquired business,  weather,  terrorist activities,  war
and the threat of war.  Actual  results may materially  differ from  anticipated
results described in these forward-looking  statements. You should be aware that
the  occurrence  of the events  described in these risk factors and elsewhere in
this Form 10-K could have a material  adverse effect on our business,  operating
results and financial condition.

The Automotive Aftermarket Business is Highly Competitive

     Both the DIY and professional installer portions of our business are highly
competitive,  particularly  in the more densely  populated  areas that we serve.
Some of our  competitors  are  larger  than we are and  have  greater  financial
resources.  In addition, some of our competitors are smaller than we are overall
but have a greater presence than we do in a particular market. For a list of our
principal  competitors,  see the ''Competition''  section of Item 1 of this Form
10-K.

We Cannot Assure Future Growth

     We believe  that our ability to open  additional  stores at an  accelerated
rate will be a  significant  factor in achieving our growth  objectives  for the
future.  Failure to achieve  our growth  objectives  may  negatively  impact the
trading  price of our  common  stock.  Our  ability  to  accomplish  our  growth
objectives is dependent, in part, on matters beyond our control, such as weather
conditions,  zoning and other issues related to new store site development,  the
availability of qualified management personnel and general business and economic
conditions.  We cannot be sure that our growth plans for 2005 and beyond will be
achieved.  For a  discussion  of our growth  strategies,  see the  ''Growth  and
Expansion Strategies'' section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

                                       11

<page>
Acquisitions May Not Lead to Expected Growth

     We expect to  continue  to make  acquisitions  as an  element of our growth
strategy.  Acquisitions involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth
to differ from our expectations. For example:

o    we may not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition  candidates
     or to  acquire  additional  companies  at  favorable  prices  or  on  other
     favorable terms;

o    our management's attention may be distracted;

o    we may fail to retain key acquired personnel;

o    we may assume unanticipated legal liabilities and other problems; and

o    we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations (accounting and
     billing  functions,  for  example)  of  businesses  we  acquire  to realize
     economic, operational and other benefits.


Sensitivity to Regional Economic and Weather Conditions

     All of our stores are located in the Central and Southern United States. In
particular, approximately 31% of our stores are located in Texas. Therefore, our
business is sensitive to the economic and weather  conditions of these  regions.
Unusually severe or inclement weather tends to reduce sales, particularly to DIY
customers.

Dependence Upon Key and Other Personnel

     Our  success  has been  largely  dependent  on the  efforts of certain  key
personnel,  including David O'Reilly, Ted Wise, Greg Henslee and Jim Batten. Our
business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the
unexpected  loss  of  the  services  of  one  or  more  of  these   individuals.
Additionally,  our  successful  implementation  and management of our growth and
expansion  strategies  will  depend on our  ability to  continue  to attract and
retain qualified  personnel.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue
to attract  such  personnel.  For a further  discussion  of our  management  and
personnel,  see the ''Business'' section of Item 1 and Item 4a of this Form 10-K
and our  Proxy  Statement  on  Schedule  14A  for the  2005  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders, a portion of which is incorporated herein.

Significant Voting Block is held by the O'Reilly Family

     As of the date of this Form 10-K,  the O'Reilly  family  beneficially  owns
approximately  10%, or 5,614,687 number of shares, of the outstanding  shares of
our  common  stock.  As a  result,  the  O'Reilly  family,  if they  act and act
togehter,  represents  one of the  largest  known  blocks of our  shares and may
continue to be a significant  factor in any matter voted on by our shareholders,
including the election of our directors and any merger,  sale of assets or other
change in control.

Possible Volatility of Our Stock Price

     The stock  market  and the price of our  common  stock  may be  subject  to
volatile  fluctuations  based on general  economic  and market  conditions.  The
market  price for our common  stock may also be  affected by our ability to meet
analysts' expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could
have an adverse  effect on the market  price of our common  stock.  In addition,
stock market  volatility  has had a  significant  effect on the market prices of
securities  issued by many  companies  for reasons  unrelated  to the  operating
performance of these companies.  In the past, following periods of volatility in
the market price of a company's  securities,  securities class action litigation
has often been  instituted  against such a company.  If similar  litigation were
instituted  against us, it could result in substantial  costs and a diversion of
our management's attention and resources,  which could have an adverse effect on
our business.

Shares Eligible for Future Sale

     All of the shares of common stock  currently  held by our affiliates may be
sold in reliance upon the exemptive provisions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended,  subject to certain volume and other conditions  imposed by
such rule. We cannot predict the effect,  if any, that future sales of shares of
common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market
price of the common stock  prevailing  from time to time.  Sales of  substantial
amounts of common stock,  or the perception  that such sales might occur,  could
adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock.

                                       12

<page>

Item 2.  Properties

     The   following   table   provides   certain   information   regarding  our
administrative  offices and distribution  centers and offices as of December 31,
2004:

<table>
<caption>
                                                                   Square
    Location                    Principal Uses(s)                  Footage       Interest
-----------------    -----------------------------------------    ---------    -----------
<S>                  <C>                                            <C>         <C>
Springfield, MO      Distribution Center, Bulk and Return
                        Facilities and Corporate Offices            333,332     Owned
Springfield, MO      Return Facility                                130,150     Leased (a)
Springfield, MO      Corporate Offices, Training and Technical       33,580     Leased (b)
                        Center
Springfield, MO      Corporate Offices                               54,910     Leased (c)
Kansas City, MO      Distribution Center and Offices                130,654     Owned
Oklahoma City, OK    Distribution Center and Offices                307,685     Owned
Des Moines, IA       Distribution Center and Offices                229,016     Owned
Houston, TX          Distribution Center and Offices                530,138     Owned
Dallas, TX           Distribution Center and Offices                464,265     Owned
Little Rock, AR      Distribution Center and Offices                127,052     Leased (d)
Nashville, TN        Distribution Center and Offices                433,641     Leased (e)
Knoxville, TN        Distribution Center and Offices                163,389     Owned
Mobile, AL           Distribution Center and Offices                324,789     Leased (f)

<fn>
(a)  Occupied under the terms of two separate leases with an unaffiliated  party
     both expiring May 31, 2007,  subject to renewal of five five-year  terms at
     our option.

(b)  Occupied  under  the  terms  of a lease  expiring  July 31,  2007,  with an
     unaffiliated  party,  subject to renewal for three  five-year  terms at our
     option.

(c)  Occupied  under the terms of a lease with an  unaffiliated  party  expiring
     March 31, 2007, subject to renewal for one three-year term at our option.

(d)  Occupied  under the terms of a lease with an  unaffiliated  party  expiring
     March 31, 2012, subject to renewal for four five-year terms at our option.

(e)  Occupied  under the terms of a two  separate  leases  with an  unaffiliated
     party with the  distribution  center  lease  expiring in December 31, 2008,
     subject to renewal of two five-year options. The office space lease expires
     December 14, 2008, subject to renewal of two five-year options.

(f)  Occupied  under the terms of a lease with an  unaffiliated  party  expiring
     December  31,  2012,  subject to  renewal  for ten  five-year  terms at our
     option.
</fn>
</table>
     Of the 1,249 stores that we operated at December 31, 2004,  455 stores were
owned,  723 stores  were  leased  from  unaffiliated  parties and 71 stores were
leased from one of three  entities  owned by the  O'Reilly  family.  Leases with
unaffiliated parties generally provide for payment of a fixed base rent, payment
of certain tax, insurance and maintenance  expenses,  and an original term of 10
years,  subject to one or more  renewals at our  option.  We have  entered  into
separate master lease  agreements  with each of the affiliated  entities for the
occupancy of the stores covered thereby.  Such master lease agreements expire on
December 31, 2004. We believe that the lease agreements with the entities are on
terms comparable to those obtainable from third parties.

     We  believe  that  our  present  facilities  are  in  good  condition,  are
adequately insured and together with those under construction,  are suitable and
adequate for the conduct of our current operations.

                                       13
<page>

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

     The Company is involved in various  other legal  proceedings  incidental to
the conduct of its business. Although the Company cannot ascertain the amount of
liability  that it may incur from any of these  matters,  it does not  currently
believe that, in the aggregate,  they will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of  operations  or cash flows of the
Company.

Item 4.       Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders,  through  the
solicitation  of proxies or otherwise,  during the fourth  quarter of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2004.

Item 4A.      Executive Officers of the Company

     The following  paragraphs  discuss  information about executive officers of
the Company who are not also directors:

     Greg L. Henslee, age 44, Chief Executive Officer and Co-President, has been
an  O'Reilly  team  member  for  20  years.  Mr.  Henslee's   primary  areas  of
responsibilities are Merchandise, Systems and Distributions. His O'Reilly career
started  as a Parts  Specialist,  and  during  his first five years he served in
several positions in retail store operations,  including District Manager.  From
there he advanced to Computer Operations  Manager,  and over the past ten years,
he has served as Director of Computer Operations/Loss Prevention, Vice President
of Store  Operations  and as Senior Vice  President.  He has been  President  of
Merchandise,  Distribution,  Information  Systems and Loss Prevention since July
1999,  and in his current  position of Chief  Executive  Officer since  February
2005.

     Ted F. Wise, age 54, Chief Operating Officer and Co-President,  has been an
O'Reilly team member for 34 years. Mr. Wise's primary areas of  responsibilities
are Sales,  Operations and Real Estate. He began his O'Reilly career in sales in
1970,  was  promoted  to store  manager in 1973,  and became our first  district
manager in 1977.  He continued his  progression  through the ranks as Operations
Manager, Vice President, Senior Vice President focusing on Operations and Sales,
and Executive Vice  President.  He has been  President of Sales,  Operations and
Real  Estate  since July 1999,  and in his current  position of Chief  Operating
Officer since February 2005.

     James R. Batten,  CPA, age 42,  Executive Vice President of Finance,  Chief
Financial  Officer and  Treasurer has been an O'Reilly team member for 12 years.
Mr. Batten's  primary areas of  responsibility  are Accounting and Finance.  His
O'Reilly career started as Finance Manager in January 1993 where he served until
being promoted to Chief Financial  Officer in March 1994. Prior to joining us in
January 1993, Mr. Batten was employed by the accounting firms of Whitlock, Selim
& Keehn, from 1986 to 1993 and Deloitte, Haskins & Sells from 1984 until 1986.

     Jeff Shaw, age 42, Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations,  has been
an O'Reilly team member for 15 years. Mr. Shaw's primary areas of responsibility
are managing Store Sales and Operations.  His O'Reilly career started as a parts
specialist,  and was promoted to store manager within a year. He was promoted to
District  Manager  in 1992 and  placed  in  charge  of the  Oklahoma  expansion,
promoted to Regional  Manager in 1994, and was responsible for the opening of 80
stores over the next 4 years.  With the acquisition of HiLo Auto Supply in 1998,
he was promoted to Vice President of the Southern  Division  responsible for 180
stores.  He was in charge of the majority of our expansion  growing the Division
to over 500 stores before being  transferred to the corporate  office in 2003 as
Vice  President  of Sales  and  Operations,  and was  promoted  to  Senior  Vice
President of Sales and Operations in 2004.

     Mike Swearengin, age 44, Senior Vice President of Merchandise,  has been an
O'Reilly team member 11 years. Mr. Swearengin's  primary areas of responsibility
are  Merchandise  and  Purchasing.  His  O'Reilly  career  started  as a Product
Manager, a position he held four years. From there he advanced to Senior Product
Manager,  Director  of  Merchandise  and  Vice  President  of  Merchandise  with
responsibility  for  product mix and  replenishment.  He has been in his current
position as Senior Vice President since January 2004.

                                       14

<page>

                                     PART II

Item 5. Market For Registrant's Common Equity And Related Shareholder Matters

     Common  Stock  Market  Prices and  Dividend  Information  on page 52 of the
Annual  Shareholders'  Report for the year ended  December 31,  2004,  under the
captions, "Market Prices and Dividend Information" and "Number of Shareholders,"
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

     Selected  Financial  Data on  pages 22 and 23 of the  Annual  Shareholders'
Report  for the year  ended  December  31,  2004,  under the  caption  "Selected
Consolidated Financial Data," is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7. Management's  Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results
Of Operations

     Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  on pages 26 through 32 of the  Annual  Shareholders'  Report for the
year ended December 31, 2004,  under the caption,  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations,"  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     We do not have any material amounts  outstanding under our senior revolving
line of credit,  rely on foreign  currencies  or purchase raw materials or other
commodities.  Accordingly,  we currently do not  experience  material  levels of
market risk.

Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data

     The Company's consolidated financial statements,  the notes thereto and the
report of Ernst & Young LLP,  independent  registered public accounting firm, on
pages 35  through  48 of the  Annual  Shareholders'  Report  for the year  ended
December 31, 2004,  under the  captions,  "Consolidated  Financial  Statements,"
"Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial  Statements"  and  "Report  of  Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm," are incorporated herein by reference.

Item  9.  Changes  In And  Disagreements  With  Accountants  On  Accounting  And
Financial Disclosure

      None.

Item 9A. Disclosure and Internal Control

     The Company's management,  under the supervision and with the participation
of our chief executive  officer and chief financial  officer,  have reviewed and
evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's  disclosure controls and procedures
as of  December  31,  2004.  Based on such  review  and  evaluation,  our  chief
executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that the disclosure
controls and  procedures  were effective as of December 31, 2004, to ensure that
the  information  required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it
files or submits under the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  (a) is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time period specified in
the  SEC's  rules  and  forms and (b) is  accumulated  and  communicated  to the
Company's  management,  including the officers,  as  appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required  disclosure.  There were no material changes in the
Company's internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of
2004 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
the Company's internal controls over financial reporting.

                                       15

<page>

     Management  assessed our internal  control over  financial  reporting as of
December 31, 2004.  Management's  assessment report is included at the beginning
of Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

     Our independent  registered  public  accounting firm,  Ernst & Young,  LLP,
audited management's  assessment and independently assessed the effectiveness of
the  Company's  internal  control over  financial  reporting.  Ernst & Young has
issued an attestation report concurring with management's  assessment,  which is
included at the beginning of Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

                                       16

<page>
                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors And Executive Officers Of The Registrant

     The  information  regarding the  directors of the Company  contained in the
Company's  Proxy  Statement  on  Schedule  14A for the 2005  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders  (the Proxy  Statement) under the caption  "Proposal  1-Election of
Class III Directors" is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement is
being filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission  within 120 days of the
end of the  Company's  most recent  fiscal year end. The  information  regarding
executive  officers called for by item 401 of Regulation S-K is included in Part
I as Item 4A, in accordance with General  Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, for the
executive officers of the Company who are not also directors.

     The  Company  has  adopted  a code of  ethics  that  applies  to all of its
directors,  officers  (including its chief  executive  officer,  chief operating
officer, chief financial officer,  chief accounting officer,  controller and any
person performing  similar  functions) and employees.  The Company has also made
the Code of Ethics available on its website at www.oreillyauto.com.

     The Company's Board of Directors has determined  that Mr. Murphy,  Chairman
of the  Audit  Committee,  is a  financial  expert  and  independent,  under the
standards  of Rule 10A-3 and that Mr.  Murphy  qualifies  as an audit  committee
financial  expert  under Item  401(h)(2)  of  Regulation  S-K and is presumed to
satisfy The Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2) requirements.

     The information  regarding  compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 included in the Company's Proxy Statement under the caption
"Compliance  with  Section  16(a)  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

     The  material  in  the  Proxy  Statement   under  the  caption   "Executive
Compensation",   other  than  the  material  under  the  captions  "Compensation
Committee  Report",   "Audit  Committee  Report"  and  "Performance   Graph"  is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management

     Information regarding equity compensation plans of the Company in the Proxy
Statement  under the caption  "Securities  Authorized  for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation  Plans" is  incorporated  herein by reference.  The material in the
Proxy Statement under the caption "Security  Ownership of Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners" is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships And Related Transactions

     The material in the Proxy  Statement under the caption  "Transactions  with
Insiders and Others" is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

     The  material  in the Proxy  Statement  under  the  caption  "Fees  Paid to
Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm"  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

                                       17

<page>
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule And Reports On Form 8-K

(a) 1.  Financial Statements-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following consolidated financial statements of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
Subsidiaries  included in the Annual  Shareholders' Report of the registrant for
the year ended December 31, 2004, are  incorporated  herein by reference in Part
II, Item 8:

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004, and 2003 (page 35)

     Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the years ended  December 31, 2004,
     2003, and 2002 (page 36)

     Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders'  Equity  for  the  years  ended
     December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 (page 37)

     Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the years  ended  December  31,
     2004, 2003, and 2002 (page 38)

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31,
     2004, 2003, and 2002 (pages 39-47)

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (page 48)

(a) 2.  Financial Statement Schedule-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

     The  following   consolidated  financial  statement  schedule  of  O'Reilly
Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries is included in Item 15(d):

     Schedule II-Valuation and qualifying accounts

     All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is  made  in  the  applicable
     accounting  regulations of the  Securities and Exchange  Commission are not
     required under the related instructions or are inapplicable,  and therefore
     have been omitted.

(a) 3.  Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans or Arrangements

     Each of the  Company's  management  contracts  and  compensatory  plans  or
     arrangements is identified in the Exhibit Index.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

     The Company  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  February  27, 2004,
     that  contained  financial  results for the quarter and year ended December
     31, 2003.

     The Company filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated April 20, 2004,  that
     contained  a press  release  stating  that the  Company  planned  to report
     financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 on April 29, 2004.

     The Company filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated April 27, 2004,  that
     contained  a press  release  stating  that the  Company  planned  to make a
     presentation  at the Lehman  Brothers  Retail Seventh Annual Seminar in New
     York, New York on April 26, 2004.

                                       18

<page>
     The Company filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated April 29, 2004,  that
     contained financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.

     The  Company  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated June 9, 2004,  that
     contained  a press  release  stating  that the  Company  planned  to make a
     presentation  at the Credit  Suisse First Boston  Retail  Conference in New
     York, New York.

     The Company  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated June 18, 2004,  that
     contained  a press  release  stating  that the  Company  planned  to make a
     presentation  at the  William  Blair & Company  24th  Annual  Growth  Stock
     Conference in Chicago, Illinois.

     The Company  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated July 20, 2004,  that
     contained  a press  release  stating  that the  Company  planned  to report
     financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 on July 29, 2004.

     The Company  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated July 29, 2004,  that
     contained financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 2004, that
     contained  a press  release  stating  that the  Company  planned  to report
     financial  results for the quarter ended  September 30, 2004 on October 29,
     2004.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 29, 2004, that
     contained financial results for the quarter ended
     September 30, 2004.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 29, 2004, that
     contained  a press  release  stating  that the  Company  planned  to make a
     presentation  at the Gabelli & Company 28th Annual  Automotive  Aftermarket
     Syposium in Las Vegas, Nevada.

(c) Exhibits

     See Exhibit Index on page E-1.

                                       19

<page>

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

<table>
<caption>

         Col. A                      Col. B             Col. C            Col. D        Col. E
-----------------------------     ----------   -----------------------   ----------   ----------
                                                             Additions -
                                               Additions -   Charged to
                                   Balance at  Charged to      Other                  Balance at
                                   Beginning    Costs and    Accounts -  Deductions   End of
Description                        of Period    Expenses     Describe     Describe      Period
-----------------------------     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
(Amounts in thousands)
<S>                                  <C>        <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Year ended December 31, 2004:
Deducted from asset account:
   Allowance for doubtful
      accounts                       $   986    $ 5,900    $    --    $ 3,469(1)   $ 3,417

Year ended December 31, 2003:
Deducted from asset account:
   Allowance for doubtful
      accounts                       $   865    $ 2,319    $     --   $ 2,198(1)   $   986

Year ended December 31, 2002:
Deducted from asset account:
   Allowance for doubtful
      accounts                       $ 1,760    $ 1,633    $     --   $ 2,528(1)   $   865
<fn>
(1)      Uncollectible accounts written off.
</fn>
</table>

                                       20

<page>
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                                        (Registrant)


                                        Date:  March 15, 2005
                                        By /s/ Greg Henslee
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Greg Henslee
                                        Chief Executive Officer and Co-President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been
signed  below by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the  registrant  in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

<table>
Signature                                               Title                                           Date
<S>                                                     <C>                                             <C>


/s/ David E. O'Reilly                                   Director and Chairman of the Board              March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
David E. O'Reilly


/s/ Lawrence P. O'Reilly                                Director and Vice-Chairman of the Board         March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Lawrence P. O'Reilly

/s/ Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr.                            Director and Vice-Chairman of the Board         March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr.

/s/ Rosalie O'Reilly - Wooten                           Director                                        March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Rosalie O'Reilly Wooten

/s/ Ted F. Wise                                         Chief Operating Officer and Co-President        March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Ted F. Wise

/s/ Greg Henslee                                        Chief Executive Officer and Co-President        March 15, 2005
                                                        (principal executive officer)
-----------------------------------------------
Greg Henslee

/s/ James R. Batten                                     Executive Vice-President of Finance             March 15, 2005
                                                        Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
-----------------------------------------------         (principal financial officer)
James R. Batten

/s/ Jay D. Burchfield                                   Director                                        March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Jay D. Burchfield

/s/ Joe C. Greene                                       Director                                        March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Joe C. Greene


/s/ Paul R. Lederer                                     Director                                        March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Paul R. Lederer


/s/ John Murphy                                         Director                                        March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
John Murphy
</table>
                                       21

<page>
<table>
<S>                                                     <C>                                             <C>
/s/ Ronald Rashkow                                      Director                                        March 15, 2005
-----------------------------------------------
Ronald Rashkow

</table>
                                       22

<page>




<page>
                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
No.                 Description

2.1* Plan of  Reorganization  Among the  Registrant,  Greene  County  Realty Co.
     ("Greene County Realty") and Certain Shareholders.

2.2  Agreement  and Plan of Merger,  dated as of December 23, 1997, by and among
     O"Reilly Automotive, Inc., Shamrock Acquisition, Inc. and Hi/LO Automotive,
     Inc., filed as Exhibit (c)(1) to the Registrant's Tender Offer Statement on
     Schedule  14D-1 dated December 23, 1997,  are  incorporated  herein by this
     reference.

3.1* Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant.

3.2* Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant.

3.3  Amendment  to the Restated  Articles of  Incorporation  of the  Registrant,
     filed as Exhibit 3.3 to the Registrant's  quarterly report on Form 10-Q for
     the  quarter  ended  September  30,1999,  are  incorporated  herein by this
     reference.

4.1* Form of Stock Certificate for Common Stock.

4.2  Rights  Agreement,  dated as of May 7, 2002,  between O'Reilly  Automotive,
     Inc. and UMB Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent, including the form of Certificate
     of  Designation,  Preferences  and  Rights as Exhibit A, the form of Rights
     Certificates  as Exhibit B and the Summary of Rights as Exhibit C, filed as
     Exhibit  4.2 to the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated May 8,
     2002, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.1*(a) Form of  Employment  Agreement  between  the  Registrant  and  David E.
     O'Reilly,  Lawrence  P.  O'Reilly,  Charles H.  O'Reilly,  Jr. and  Rosalie
     O'Reilly Wooten.

10.2* Lease between the Registrant and O'Reilly Investment Company.

10.3* Lease between the Registrant and O'Reilly Real Estate Company.

10.4 (a) Form of  Retirement  Agreement  between  the  Registrant  and  David E.
     O'Reilly,  Lawrence  P.  O'Reilly,  Charles H.  O'Reilly,  Jr. and  Rosalie
     O'Reilly  Wooten,   filed  as  Exhibit  10.4  to  the  Registrant's  Annual
     Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is
     incorporated herein by this reference.

10.7 (a) O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Profit Sharing and Savings Plan,  filed as
     Exhibit 4.1 to the  Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8, File
     No. 33-73892, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.8* (a) O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan.

10.9* (a) O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Stock Purchase Plan.

10.10* (a) O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan.

10.11* Commercial and Industrial Real Estate Sale Contract between  Westinghouse
     Electric Corporation and Registrant.

                                    Page E-1
                                       23
<page>

                            EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)

Exhibit
No.                 Description

10.12* Form of Assignment,  Assumption  and  Indemnification  Agreement  between
     Greene County Realty and Shamrock Properties, Inc.

10.13Loan commitment and construction  loan agreement between the Registrant and
     Deck  Enterprises,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.13  to the  Registrant's  Annual
     Shareholders' Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, are
     incorporated here by this reference.

10.14Lease between the Registrant and Deck  Enterprises,  filed as Exhibit 10.14
     to the Registrant's Annual  Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year
     ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated here by this reference.

10.15(a) Amended  Employment  Agreement  between the  Registrant  and Charles H.
     O'Reilly,   Jr.,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.17  to  the  Registrant's   Annual
     Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, is
     incorporated herein by this reference.

10.16O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Performance  Incentive Plan,  filed as Exhibit
     10.18 (a) to the Registrant's Annual  Shareholders' Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1996, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.17(a) Second  Amendment to the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  1993 Stock Option
     Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997, is  incorporated  herein by this
     reference.

10.18Credit  Agreement  between the  Registrant  and  NationsBank,  N.A. , dated
     October 16,  1997,  filed as Exhibit  10.17 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly
     Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  September  30,  1997,  is
     incorporated herein by this reference.

10.19Credit  Agreement  between the  Registrant  and  NationsBank,  N.A. , dated
     January 27,  1998,  filed as Exhibit  10.20 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998,  is  incorporated
     herein by this reference.

10.20(a) Third  Amendment to the  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  1993 Stock Option
     Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant's  Amended  Quarterly Report
     on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, is incorporated herein
     by this reference.

10.21(a) First  Amendment  to the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Directors'  Stock
     Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.22 to the Registrant's  Amended  Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, is incorporated
     herein by this reference.

10.22(a) O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as Exhibit
     10.23 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter
     ended March 31, 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.23Trust Agreement  between the Registrant's  Deferred  Compensation  Plan and
     Bankers  Trust,  dated  February  2, 1998,  filed as  Exhibit  10.24 to the
     Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
     1998, is incorporated herein by this reference.
                                       24
                                    Page E-2
<page>
                            EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)

Exhibit
No.                 Description

10.24(a) 2001 Amendment to the O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan,
     dated May 8, 2001, filed herewith.

10.25Note  Purchase  Agreement,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.25  to the  Registrant's
     Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  2001,  is
     incorporated herein by this reference.

10.26(a) First Amendment to Retirement Agreement,  dated February 7, 2001, filed
     on Exhibit 10.26 to the Registrant's  Annual  Shareholders'  Report on Form
     10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, is  incorporated  herein by this
     reference.

10.27(a) Fourth  Amendment to the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  1993 Stock Option
     Plan,  dated February 7, 2001,  filed on Exhibit 10.27 to the  Registrant's
     Annual  Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
     2001, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.28Credit Agreement between  Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., dated July
     29, 2002 filed as Exhibit  10.28 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
     From 10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 2002, is  incorporated  herein by
     this reference.

10.29(a) O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  2003  Employee  Stock  Option Plan,  filed
     herewith.

10.30(a) O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  2003  Director  Stock  Option Plan,  filed
     herewith.

10.31O'Reilly  Automotive,   Inc.  Corporate   Governance/Nominating   Committee
     Charter, filed herewith.

10.32 O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Audit Committee Charter, filed herewith.

10.33 O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter, filed herewith.

10.34O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Code of Business  Conduct  and  Ethics,  filed
     herewith.

13.1 Portions of the 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders, filed herewith.

18.0 Independent  Registered Public Accounting Firm Letter Regarding  Accounting
     Change, filed herewith.

21.1 Subsidiaries of the Registrant, filed herewith.

23.1 Consent  of Ernst & Young LLP,  independent  registered  public  accounting
     firm, filed herewith.

31.1 Certificate of the Chief Executive  Officer  pursuant to Section 302 of the
     Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed herewith.

31.2 Certificate of the Chief Financial  Officer  pursuant to Section 302 of the
     Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed herewith.

32.1 Certificate of the Chief Executive  Officer  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section
     1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
     filed herewith.

32.2 Certificate of the Chief Financial  Officer  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section
     1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
     filed herewith.

<page>
                                       25


*    Previously filed as Exhibit of same number to the Registration Statement of
     the Registrant on Form S-1, File No.  33-58948,  and  incorporated  here by
     this reference.

(a)  Management  contract or  compensatory  plan or  arrangement  required to be
     filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

                                    Page E-3
                                       26
<page>
<table>
<caption>
                                              O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                   Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders

                                                 Selected Consolidated Financial Data

Years ended December 31,     2004        2003        2002        2001       2000      1999      1998      1997      1996      1995
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
<S>                       <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
(In thousands, except
  per share data)
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
Product sales             $1,721,241  $1,511,816  $1,312,490  $1,092,112  $890,421  $754,122  $616,302  $316,399  $259,243  $201,492
Cost of goods sold,
  including warehouse
  and distribution
  expenses                   978,076     873,481     759,090     624,294   507,720   428,832   358,439   181,789   150,772   116,768
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Gross profit                 743,165     638,335     553,400     467,818   382,701   325,290   257,863   134,610   108,471    84,724
Operating, selling,
  general and
  administrative expenses    552,707     473,060     415,099     353,987   292,672   248,370   200,962    97,526    79,620    62,687
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
   Operating income          190,458     165,275     138,301     113,831    90,029    76,920    56,901    37,084    28,851    22,037
Other income (expense), net   (2,721)     (5,233)     (7,319)     (7,104)   (6,870)   (3,896)   (6,958)      472     1,182       236
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Income before income taxes
  and cumulative effect of
   accounting change         187,737     160,042     130,982     106,727    83,159    73,024    49,943    37,556    30,033    22,273
Provision for income taxes    70,063      59,955      48,990      40,375    31,451    27,385    19,171    14,413    11,062     8,182
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Income before cumulative
  effect of accounting
  change                     117,674     100,087      81,992      66,352    51,708    45,639    30,772    23,143    18,971    14,091
Cumulative effect of
  accounting change,
  net of tax (a)              21,892           -           -           -         -        -         -         -         -         -
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
       Net income         $  139,566  $  100,087  $   81,992  $   66,352  $ 51,708  $ 45,639  $ 30,772  $ 23,143  $ 18,971  $ 14,091
                          ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

BASIC EARNINGS PER COMMON
     SHARE:
Income before cumulative
  effect of
  accounting change       $     2.14  $     1.86  $     1.54  $     1.27  $   1.01  $   0.94  $   0.72  $   0.55  $   0.45  $   0.40
Cumulative effect of
  accounting change (a)         0.40           -           -           -         -         -         -         -         -         -
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Net income per share      $     2.54  $     1.86  $     1.54  $     1.27  $   1.01  $   0.94  $   0.72  $   0.55  $   0.45  $   0.40
                          ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Weighted-average common
  shares outstanding          55,010      53,908      53,114      52,121    51,168    48,674    42,476    42,086    41,728    35,640
                          ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE-
ASSUMING DILUTION:
Income before cumulative
  effect of
  accounting change       $     2.11  $     1.84  $     1.53  $     1.26  $   1.00  $   0.92  $   0.71  $   0.54  $   0.45  $   0.39
Cumulative effect of
  accounting change (a)         0.40           -           -           -         -         -         -         -         -         -
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Net income per share      $     2.51  $     1.84  $     1.53  $     1.26  $   1.00  $   0.92  $   0.71  $   0.54  $   0.45  $   0.39
                          ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Weighted-average common
  shares outstanding
  - adjusted                  55,711      54,530      53,692      52,786    51,728    49,715    43,204    42,554    42,064    35,804
                          ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

PRO FORMA INCOME
  STATEMENT DATA:
Product sales                         $1,511,816  $1,312,490  $1,092,112  $890,421  $754,122  $616,302  $316,399  $259,243  $201,492
Cost of goods sold,
  including warehouse
  and distribution
  expenses                               872,658     754,844     618,217   501,567   425,229   350,581   180,170   149,248   115,730
                                      ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Gross profit                             639,158     557,646     473,895   388,854   328,893   265,721   136,229   109,995    85,762
Operating, selling,
  general and
  administrative expenses                473,060     415,099     353,987   292,672   248,370   200,962    97,526    79,620    62,687
                                      ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
   Operating income                      166,098     142,547     119,908    96,182    80,523    64,759    38,703    30,375    23,075
Other income
  (expense), net                          (5,233)     (7,319)     (7,104)   (6,870)   (3,896)   (6,958)      472     1,182       236
                                      ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Income before
  income taxes                           160,865     135,228     112,804    89,312    76,627    57,801    39,175    31,557    23,311
Provision for
  income taxes                            60,266      50,595      42,672    33,776    28,747    22,141    15,025    11,638     8,574
                                      ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Net income                            $  100,599  $   84,633  $   70,132  $ 55,536  $ 47,880  $ 35,660  $ 24,150  $ 19,919  $ 14,737
                                      ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Net income per share                  $     1.87  $     1.59  $     1.35  $   1.09  $   0.98  $   0.84  $   0.57  $   0.48  $   0.41
                                      ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Net income per share -
  assuming dilution                   $     1.84  $     1.58  $     1.33  $   1.07  $   0.96  $   0.83  $   0.57  $   0.47  $   0.41
                                      ==========  ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

<fn>
(a)  See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
     of Operations, 2004 Compared to 2003.
</fn>
</table>

                                       27

<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                Selected Consolidated Financial Data (continued)

(In thousands, except selected operating data)
<table>
Years ended December 31,     2004        2003        2002        2001       2000      1999      1998      1997      1996      1995
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                          <S>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
SELECTED OPERATING DATA:
Number of stores at
  year-end (a)                 1,249       1,109         981         875       672       571       491       259       219       188
Total store square
 footage at year-end
 (in 000's) (a) (b)            8,318       7,348       6,408       5,882     4,491     3,777     3,172     1,417     1,151       923
Weighted-average product
 sales per store
 (in 000's) (a) (b)       $    1,443  $    1,413  $    1,372  $    1,426  $  1,412  $  1,422  $  1,368  $  1,300  $  1,240  $  1,101
Weighted-average product
 sales per square
 foot (b) (d)             $      217  $      215  $      211  $      219  $    218  $    223  $    238  $    244  $    251  $    227
Percentage increase in
 same-store product
 sales (c)                       6.8%        7.8%        3.7%        8.8%      5.0%      9.6%      6.8%      6.8%     14.4%     8.9%


BALANCE SHEET DATA:

Working capital           $  479,662  $  441,617  $  483,623  $  429,527  $296,272  $249,351  $208,363  $ 93,763  $ 74,403  $ 80,471

Total assets               1,432,357   1,157,033   1,009,419     856,859   715,995   610,442   493,288   247,617   183,623   153,604

Current portion of
 long-term debt
 and short-term debt             592         925         682      16,843    49,121    19,358    13,691       130     3,154       231

Long-term debt,
 less current portion        100,322     120,977     190,470     165,618    90,463    90,704   170,166    22,641       237       358

Shareholders' equity         947,817     784,285     650,524     556,291   463,731   403,044   218,394   182,039   155,782   133,870
<fn>
(a)  Store  count for 2002 does not include 27 stores  acquired  from Dick Smith
     Enterprises and Davie Automotive, Inc. in December 2002.

(b)  Total  square  footage  includes  normal  selling,  office,  stockroom  and
     receiving  space.  Weighted-average  product sales per store and per square
     foot are weighted to consider the  approximate  dates of store  openings or
     expansions.

(c)  Same-store  product  sales are  calculated  based on the  change in product
     sales of stores open at least one year. Prior to 2000,  same-store  product
     sales data were  calculated  based on the  change in product  sales of only
     those  stores open  during both full  periods  being  compared.  Percentage
     increase in same-store  product  sales is  calculated  based on store sales
     results,  which  exclude  sales of  specialty  machinery,  sales by outside
     salesmen and sales to employees.

(d)  1998  does  not  include   stores   acquired   from   Hi/LO.   Consolidated
     weighted-average product sales per square foot were $207.
</fn>
</table>
                                       28
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following discussion of our financial condition,  results of operations
and  liquidity  and capital  resources  should be read in  conjunction  with our
consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information
included elsewhere in this annual report.

     We are one of the largest  specialty  retailers of  automotive  aftermarket
parts, tools, supplies,  equipment and accessories in the United States, selling
our products to both do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and professional installers.
Our stores carry an extensive product line consisting of new and  remanufactured
automotive hard parts, maintenance items and accessories, and a complete line of
auto body paint and related materials, automotive tools and professional service
equipment.

     We calculate  same-store product sales based on the change in product sales
for  stores  open at least  one  year.  Prior to  January  2000,  we  calculated
same-store  product  sales  based on the change in  product  sales of only those
stores open during both full periods being compared. We calculate the percentage
increase in same-store product sales based on store sales results, which exclude
sales of  specialty  machinery,  sales by  outside  salesmen  and  sales to team
members.

     Cost of goods sold  consists  primarily of product  costs and warehouse and
distribution  expenses.  Cost of goods sold as a percentage of product sales may
be  affected by  variations  in our product  mix,  price  changes in response to
competitive factors and fluctuations in merchandise costs and vendor programs.

     Operating,  selling,  general and administrative expenses consist primarily
of salaries  and  benefits  for store and  corporate  team  members,  occupancy,
advertising  expenses,  general and  administrative  expenses,  data processing,
professional expenses and other related expenses.

                                       29

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

     The  fundamental  objective  of financial  reporting  is to provide  useful
information  that allows a reader to comprehend  the business  activities of our
company. To aid in that  understanding,  management has identified our "critical
accounting  policies."  These  policies  have  the  potential  to  have  a  more
significant  impact  on  our  financial   statements,   either  because  of  the
significance  of the financial  statement item to which they relate,  or because
they  require  judgment  and  estimation  due to  the  uncertainty  involved  in
measuring, at a specific point in time, events which are continuous in nature.

o    Cost of goods sold - Cost of goods sold includes warehouse and distribution
     expenses and estimates of amounts due from vendors for certain  merchandise
     allowances  and rebates.  These  estimates are consistent  with  historical
     experience.

o    Operating, selling, general and administrative expense (OSG&A) - Operating,
     selling, general and administrative expense includes estimates for medical,
     workers'  compensation and other general liability  insurance  obligations,
     which  are  partially  based  on  estimates  of  certain  claim  costs  and
     historical experience.

o    Accounts receivable - Allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on
     historical  loss  ratios  and  consistently  has been  within  management's
     expectations.

o    Revenue -  Over-the-counter  retail  sales are  recorded  when the customer
     takes  possession of merchandise.  Sales to professional  installers,  also
     referred  to  as  "commercial   sales",   are  recorded  upon  delivery  of
     merchandise to the customer, generally at the customer's place of business.
     Wholesale sales to other retailers,  also referred to as "jobber sales" are
     recorded  upon  shipment  of  merchandise.  All sales are  recorded  net of
     estimated allowances and discounts.

o    Vendor  concessions  ' The Company  receives  concessions  from its vendors
     through a variety of  programs  and  arrangements,  including  co-operative
     advertising,   allowances  for  warranties  and  volume  purchase  rebates.
     Co-operative advertising allowances that are incremental to our advertising
     program,  specific to a product or event and  identifiable  for  accounting
     purposes are reported as a reduction of  advertising  expense in the period
     in which  the  advertising  occurred.  All  other  vendor  concessions  are
     recognized  as a  reduction  of  cost  of  sales  when  recognized  in  the
     consolidated statement of income.

                                       30

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES (CONTINUED)

o    Stock-based  compensation  - We have  elected  to use the  intrinsic  value
     method of accounting  for stock options issued under our stock option plans
     and  accordingly  do not record an  expense  for such  stock  options.  For
     purposes  of pro  forma  disclosures  under  the  fair  value  method,  the
     estimated  fair value of the  options  is  amortized  to  expense  over the
     options'  vesting  period.  During the fourth  quarter of 2004, the Company
     changed its method of applying  its LIFO  accounting  policy for  inventory
     costs (see Note 2 - Accounting  Changes).  Our stock compensation pro forma
     information for the years ended December 31, is as follows,  both excluding
     and including the effects of the inventory accounting change:

<table>
<caption>
                                                2004        2003        2002
                                             ---------------------------------
                                           (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                          <C>         <C>         <C>
Excluding inventory accounting change
Net income, as reported....................  $ 139,566   $ 100,087   $  81,992
Stock-based compensation expense, net
  of tax, as reported......................          -           -           -
Stock-based compensation expense, net
  of tax, under fair value method..........      7,468       9,204       7,217
                                             ---------------------------------
Pro forma net income.......................  $ 132,098   $  90,883   $  74,775
                                             =================================
Pro forma basic net income per share.......  $    2.40   $    1.69   $    1.41
                                             =================================
Pro forma net income per share-
  assuming dilution........................  $    2.37   $    1.67   $    1.39
                                             =================================
Net income per share, as reported
Basic......................................  $    2.54   $    1.86   $    1.54
                                             =================================
Assuming dilution..........................  $    2.51   $    1.84   $    1.53
                                             =================================
Including inventory accounting change
Net income.................................              $ 100,599   $  84,633
Stock based compensation expense, net
  of tax, as reported......................                      -           -
Stock based compensation expense, net
  of tax, under fair value method..........                  9,204       7,217
                                                        ----------------------
Pro forma net income.......................             $   91,395   $  77,416
                                                        ======================
Pro forma basic net income per share.......             $     1.70   $    1.46
                                                        ======================
Pro forma net income per share-
  assuming dilution........................             $     1.68   $    1.44
                                                        ======================
</table>

                                       31

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth, certain income statement data as a percentage of
product sales for the years indicated:

<table>
<Caption>
                                                 Years ended December 31,
                                               --------------------------
                                                2004       2003      2002
<S>                                            <C>        <C>       <C>
Product sales..............................    100.0%     100.0%    100.0%
Cost of goods sold, including warehouse
  and distribution expenses................     56.8       57.8      57.8
                                               --------------------------
Gross profit...............................     43.2       42.2      42.2
Operating, selling, general and
  administrative expenses..................     32.1       31.3      31.6
                                               --------------------------
Operating income...........................     11.1       10.9      10.6
Other expense, net.........................     (0.2)      (0.3)     (0.6)
                                               --------------------------
Income before income taxes and cumulative
  effect of accounting change..............     10.9       10.6      10.0
Provision for income taxes.................      4.1        4.0       3.7
                                               --------------------------
Income before cumulative effect of
  accounting change........................      6.8        6.6       6.3
                                               --------------------------
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change, net of tax.......................      1.3          -         -
                                               --------------------------
Net income.................................      8.1%       6.6%      6.3%
                                               ==========================

</table>

     See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of  Operations,  2004 Compared to 2003,  for detailed  information on cumulative
effect of accounting change.


                                       32

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

2004 COMPARED TO 2003

     Product sales increased $209.4 million, or 13.9% from $1.51 billion in 2003
to $1.72  billion in 2004,  primarily  due to 140 net  additional  stores opened
during 2004, and a 6.8% increase in same-store  product sales for stores open at
least one year.  We believe that the  increased  product  sales  achieved by the
existing  stores  are the  result  of our  offering  of a broader  selection  of
products in most stores, an increased promotional and advertising effort through
a variety of media and localized  promotional events, and continued  improvement
in the merchandising and store layouts of most stores. Also, our continued focus
on serving professional installers contributed to increased product sales.

     Gross profit  increased  16.4% from $638.3 million (42.2% of product sales)
in 2003 to $743.2 million (43.2% of product sales) in 2004. Gross profit dollars
rose $100.4 million due to the increase in product sales and $4.4 million due to
a change in  accounting  method.  The  increase in gross  profit as a percent of
product sales is related to improvements in our  distribution  cost and improved
product margin related to product acquisition cost.

     OSG&A  increased $79.6 million from $473.1 million (31.3% of product sales)
in 2003 to $552.7  million  (32.1% of product  sales) in 2004.  The  increase in
these expenses was primarily  attributable  to increased  salaries and benefits,
rent and other costs associated with the addition of employees and facilities to
support the increased level of our operations.

     Corrections of errors related to lease accounting represented $10.4 million
($3.5 million  related to 2004) of the  increase.  Rent expense  increased  $4.4
million  ($0.9  million  related  to 2004),  as a result of  corrections  in the
Company's  method  of  calculating  straight-line  rent  expense.   Depreciation
increased  $6.0  million  ($2.6  million  related  to  2004),  as  a  result  of
corrections  in the Company's  method of calculating  amortization  of leasehold
improvements.  The Company's policy is to amortize  leasehold  improvements over
the lesser of the lease term or the  estimated  economic  life of those  assets.
Generally, for stores the lease term is the base lease term and for distribution
centers the lease term includes the base lease term plus certain  renewal option
periods for which  renewal is  reasonably  assured  and failure to exercise  the
renewal  option  would  result  in an  economic  penalty.  The  calculation  for
straight-line  rent  expense  is  based  on the  same  lease  term.  Previously,
leasehold  improvements were amortized over a period of time which included both
the base lease term and the first  renewal  option  period of the lease and rent
expense was recorded as paid.

     Other expense,  net, decreased by $2.5 million from $5.2 million in 2003 to
$2.7 million in 2004.  The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in interest
expense as a result of lower average borrowings under our credit facility.

     Provision  for income  taxes  increased  from $60.0  million in 2003 (37.5%
effective  tax rate) to $70.1 million in 2004 (37.3%  effective  tax rate).  The
increase in the dollar amount was primarily due to the increase of income before
income taxes.

     The  cumulative  change in accounting  method,  effective  January 1, 2004,
changed the method of applying our LIFO accounting  policy for certain inventory
costs. Under the new method, we inventoried certain procurement, warehousing and
distribution  center costs.  The previous method was to recognize those costs as
incurred,  reported  as a component  of costs of goods sold.  We believe the new
method is preferable,  since it better matches  revenues and expenses and is the
prevalent  method  used by other  entities  within  the  automotive  aftermarket
industry.

     Net income in 2004 was $139.6 million (8.1% of product sales),  an increase
of $39.5  million or 39.4%,  from net income in 2003 of $100.1  million (6.6% of
product sales).

                                       34

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

2003 COMPARED TO 2002

     Product sales increased $199.3 million, or 15.2% from $1.31 billion in 2002
to $1.51  billion in 2003,  primarily  due to 128 net  additional  stores opened
during 2003, and a 7.8% increase in same-store  product sales for stores open at
least one year.  We believe that the  increased  product  sales  achieved by the
existing  stores  are the  result  of our  offering  of a broader  selection  of
products in most stores, an increased promotional and advertising effort through
a variety of media and localized  promotional events, and continued  improvement
in the merchandising and store layouts of most stores. Also, our continued focus
on serving professional installers contributed to increased product sales.

     Gross profit  increased  15.4% from $553.4 million (42.2% of product sales)
in 2002 to $638.3  million  (42.2% of product  sales) in 2003.  The  increase in
gross profit dollars is due to the increase in product sales.

     OSG&A  increased $58.0 million from $415.1 million (31.6% of product sales)
in 2002 to $473.1  million  (31.3% of product  sales) in 2003.  The  increase in
these expenses was primarily  attributable  to increased  salaries and benefits,
rent and other costs associated with the addition of employees and facilities to
support the increased level of our operations. The decrease in OSG&A expenses as
a percent of product sales was primarily due to achieving  greater  economies of
scale resulting from increased  product sales and through  management's  expense
control initiatives.

     Other expense,  net, decreased by $2.1 million from $7.3 million in 2002 to
$5.2 million in 2003.  The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in interest
expense as a result of lower average borrowings under our credit facility and to
a lesser extent lower average interest rates.

     Provision  for income  taxes  increased  from $49.0  million in 2002 (37.4%
effective  tax rate) to $60.0 million in 2003 (37.5%  effective  tax rate).  The
increase in the dollar amount was primarily due to the increase of income before
income taxes.

     Net income in 2003 was $100.1 million (6.6% of product sales),  an increase
of $18.1  million or 22.1%,  from net income in 2002 of $82.0  million  (6.3% of
product sales).

                                       34

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Net cash  provided  by  operating  activities  was $226.5  million in 2004,
$168.8 million in 2003 and $104.5 million in 2002. The increase in cash provided
by operating  activities in 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to increases
in net income and accounts payable, partially offset by increases in receivables
and  inventory.   The  increase  in  accounts   payable  was  primarily  due  to
management's  efforts with vendors to extend the terms of payment. The increases
in accounts  receivable and inventory primarily relate to the increased level of
our operations.

     The increase in cash  provided by operating  activities in 2003 compared to
2002 was  primarily  due to increases  in net income and accounts  payable and a
smaller  increase in  inventory  than the prior year.  The  increase in accounts
payable was  primarily  due to  management's  efforts with vendors to extend the
terms of payment.  Inventory growth was reduced by transition of certain product
lines to vendor consignment programs.

     Net cash used in investing  activities was $172.0  million in 2004,  $130.6
million  in 2003 and  $105.4  million  in 2002.  The  increase  in cash  used in
investing  activities in 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to increased  purchases
of property and equipment.

     Capital  expenditures  were $173.5 million in 2004,  $136.5 million in 2003
and $102.3 million in 2002.  These  expenditures  were primarily  related to the
opening of new  stores,  as well as the  relocation  or  remodeling  of existing
stores.  We either opened or acquired 140, 128 and 106 net stores in 2004,  2003
and 2002,  respectively.  We remodeled or relocated 30 stores and  remodeled one
distribution  center  in  2004,   remodeled  or  relocated  46  stores  and  two
distribution  centers in 2003 and 27 stores in 2002. One new distribution center
was acquired in 2003, located near Mobile, Alabama.

     Our  continuing  store  expansion  program  requires   significant  capital
expenditures  and working capital  principally for inventory  requirements.  Our
2005 growth plans call for approximately 160 new stores and capital expenditures
of $175 million to $185 million.  The costs associated with the opening of a new
store (including the cost of land acquisition, improvements, fixtures, inventory
and computer equipment) are estimated to average approximately  $900,000 to $1.1
million; however, such costs may be significantly reduced where we lease, rather
than purchase,  the store site.  Although the cost to acquire the business of an
independently  owned parts store varies,  depending primarily upon the amount of
inventory  and the amount,  if any, of real estate being  acquired,  we estimate
that the average  cost to acquire  such a business  and convert it to one of our
stores is  approximately  $400,000.  We plan to finance  our  expansion  program
through cash expected to be provided  from  operating  activities  and available
borrowings under our existing credit facilities.

                                       35

<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (continued)

     On July 29, 2002, we completed an unsecured,  three-year  syndicated credit
facility (Credit Facility) in the amount of $150 million led by Wells Fargo Bank
as the Administrative  Agent,  replacing a five-year syndicated credit facility.
The  Credit  Facility  is  guaranteed  by  all of our  subsidiaries  and  may be
increased  to a total  of $200  million,  subject  to the  availability  of such
additional credit from either existing banks within the Credit Facility or other
banks.  At  December  31,  2004 we had no  outstanding  balance  with the Credit
Facility. The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus a spread ranging from
0.875% to 1.375%  (2.06% at  December  31,  2003) and  expires in July 2005.  At
December  31,  2003,  $20.0  million of the  Credit  Facility  was  outstanding.
Additionally,  letters of credit  totaling  $21.3 million and $11.0 million were
outstanding  at  December  31,  2004 and 2003,  respectively.  Accordingly,  our
aggregate  availability for additional  borrowings under the Credit Facility was
$128.7 million and $119.0 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

     We have utilized various financial instruments from time to time as sources
of cash when such  instruments  provided  a cost  effective  alternative  to our
existing sources of cash. We do not believe,  however,  that we are dependent on
the availability of these  instruments to fund our working capital  requirements
or our growth plans.

     On December 29, 2000, we completed a sale-leaseback transaction.  Under the
terms of the transaction,  we sold 90 properties,  including land, buildings and
improvements, which generated $52.3 million of additional cash. The lease, which
is being accounted for as an operating lease, provides for an initial lease term
of 21  years  and  may be  extended  for one  initial  ten-year  period  and two
additional  successive  periods of five years each.  The resulting  gain of $4.5
million has been  deferred and is being  amortized  over the initial lease term.
Net rent  expense  during the initial  term will be  approximately  $5.5 million
annually  and  is  included  in  the  table  of  contractual  obligations  under
non-cancelable operating leases.

     In August 2001, we completed a sale-leaseback with O'Reilly-Wooten 2000 LLC
(an entity  owned by  certain  shareholders  of the  Company).  The  transaction
involved the sale and  leaseback of nine O'Reilly Auto Parts stores and resulted
in approximately $5.6 million of additional cash to the Company. The transaction
did not result in a material gain or loss.  The lease,  which has been accounted
for as an  operating  lease,  calls for an  initial  term of 15 years with three
five-year renewal options.

     On June 26, 2003, we completed an amended and restated master  agreement to
our  $50  million  Synthetic  Operating  Lease  Facility  (the  Facility  or the
Synthetic  Lease)  with a group  of  financial  institutions.  The  terms of the
Facility  provide for an initial  lease period of five years,  a residual  value
guarantee of  approximately  $43.2  million at December  31, 2004,  and purchase
options on the  properties.  The Facility also contains a provision for an event
of default  whereby the lessor,  among other things,  may require us to purchase
any or all of the properties. One additional renewal period of five years may be
requested  from the lessor,  although the lessor is not  obligated to grant such
renewal.  The Facility has been  accounted  for as an operating  lease under the
provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13 and related  interpretations,  including FASB
Interpretation No. 46. Future minimum rental commitments under the Facility have
been included in the table of contractual obligations below.

                                       36

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

     We issue  stand-by  letters of credit  provided by a $30  million  sublimit
under the Credit Facility that reduce our available borrowings. These letters of
credit are issued primarily to satisfy the requirements of workers compensation,
general  liability  and  other  insurance  policies.  Substantially  all  of the
outstanding letters of credit have a one-year term from the date of issuance and
have been issued to replace surety bonds that were previously issued. Letters of
credit totaling $21.3 million and $11.0 million were outstanding at December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

     We  have  other  liabilities  reflected  in our  balance  sheet,  including
deferred  income  taxes and  self-insurance  accruals.  The payment  obligations
associated with these liabilities are not reflected in the financial commitments
table due to the absence of scheduled maturities. Therefore, the timing of these
payments  cannot be  determined,  except for amounts  estimated to be payable in
2005 that are included in current liabilities.

     Our  contractual  obligations,  including  commitments  for future payments
under   non-cancelable   lease   arrangements   and  short  and  long-term  debt
arrangements,  are summarized  below and are fully disclosed in Notes 4 and 5 to
the consolidated financial statements.
<table>
<caption>
                                                           Payments Due By Period
                                        ---------------------------------------------------------
                                                      Before       1-3          4-5      Over 5
                                          Total       1 Year      Years        Years     Years
Contractual Obligations:                                     (In thousands)
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Long-term debt......................... $ 100,914   $     592   $  75,317   $  25,005   $       -
Operating leases.......................   315,043      36,341      66,108      52,576     160,018
                                        ---------------------------------------------------------
Total contractual cash obligations..... $ 415,957   $  36,933   $ 141,425   $  77,581   $ 160,018
                                        =========================================================

</table>

     We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash expected to be
provided by operating  activities,  available  bank credit  facilities and trade
credit will be sufficient  to fund both our  short-term  and  long-term  capital
needs for the foreseeable future.

INFLATION AND SEASONALITY

     We  attempt  to  mitigate  the  effects  of   merchandise   cost  increases
principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale
resulting from increased volume of purchases and selective  forward buying. As a
result,  we do not believe that our operations have been materially  affected by
inflation.  Our  business is  somewhat  seasonal,  primarily  as a result of the
impact of weather  conditions  on store  sales.  Store  sales and  profits  have
historically  been  higher in the  second  and  third  quarters  (April  through
September) of each year than in the first and fourth quarters.

                                       37

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

RESTATEMENT OF QUARTERLY RESULTS

     The following table sets forth certain quarterly  unaudited  operating data
for fiscal 2004 and 2003.  The  unaudited  quarterly  information  includes  all
adjustments which management  considers necessary for a fair presentation of the
information shown. We have restated our quarterly financial information for each
of the first three  quarters  of 2004.  Effective  January 1, 2004,  the Company
changed its method of applying its LIFO accounting  policy for inventory  costs.
Under the new method,  the  Company  has  inventoried  certain  warehousing  and
distribution center costs. The Company's previous method recorded these expenses
directly into cost of goods sold. The Company believes the change in application
of accounting  method is preferable as it more accurately  matches  revenues and
expenses and is the prevelant method used by other entities within the Company's
industry.  The  cumulative  effect of this change in  application  of accounting
method is  $21,892,000  as of January 1, 2004,  net of the related  deferred tax
effect of $13,303,000.

     The unaudited  operating data presented below should be read in conjunction
with our consolidated  financial statements and related notes included elsewhere
in this annual report, and the other financial information included therein.

<table>
<caption>
                                                                         Fiscal 2004
                                   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      First Quarter         Second Quarter        Third Quarter
                                   --------------------  --------------------  -------------------
                                   Previously            Previously           Previously              Fourth
                                    Reported   Restated   Reported   Restated  Reported   Restated   Quarter(a)
                                   ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                                 (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Product sales....................  $ 403,294  $ 403,294  $ 435,167  $ 435,167  $ 455,162  $ 455,162  $ 427,618
Gross profit.....................    169,338    169,593    187,758    189,435    195,848    198,169    185,968
Operating income.................     43,772     44,027     52,565     54,242     53,809     56,130     36,059
Income before cumulative effect
  of accounting change...........     27,126     27,285     32,652     33,695     33,243     34,687     22,007
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change, net of tax.............          -     21,892          -          -          -          -          -
Net income.......................     27,126     49,177     32,652     33,695     33,243     34,687     22,007
Basic net income per common
  share before cumulative effect
  of accounting change...........       0.50       0.50       0.59       0.61       0.60       0.63       0.40
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change, net of tax.............          -       0.40          -          -          -          -          -
Basic net income per
  common share...................       0.50       0.90       0.59       0.61       0.60       0.63       0.40
Diluted net income per common
  share before cumulative effect
  of accounting change...........       0.49       0.49       0.59       0.61       0.60       0.62       0.39
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change, net of tax.............          -       0.40          -          -          -          -          -
Net income per common
  share-assuming dilution........       0.49       0.89       0.59       0.61       0.60       0.62       0.39

<fn>
(a)  During the fourth  quarter  2004,  the Company  recorded a correction of an
     error of $10.4 million ($3.5 million related to 2004) $6.5 million,  net of
     tax. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.
</fn>
</table>

                                       38

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

RESTATEMENT OF QUARTERLY RESULTS (CONTINUED)

<table>
<caption>
                                               Fiscal 2003
                              ---------------------------------------------
                                First      Second       Third      Fourth
                               Quarter    Quarter      Quarter     Quarter
                              ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                   (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                           <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Product sales...............  $ 339,475   $ 393,112   $ 412,182   $ 367,047
Gross profit................    140,946     165,713     175,653     156,023
Operating income............     33,341      44,726      48,362      38,846
Net income..................     19,728      26,924      29,533      23,902
Basic net income per
  common share..............       0.37        0.50        0.55        0.44
Net income per common
  share-assuming dilution...       0.37        0.50        0.54        0.43
</table>

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In November 2004, the FASB issued  SFAS 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment
of ARB No. 43,  Chapter 4.  The standard  requires that abnormal amounts of idle
capacity and spoilage  costs should be excluded  from the cost of inventory  and
expensed when incurred.  The provision is effective for fiscal periods beginning
after  June 15,  2005.  We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a
material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

     In  December  2004,  the FASB issued  SFAS 153,  Exchanges  of  Nonmonetary
Assets,  an amendment of APB No. 29,  Accounting for  Nonmonetary  Transactions.
SFAS 153  requires  exchanges of  productive  assets to be accounted for at fair
value, rather than at carryover basis, unless (1) neither the asset received nor
the asset  surrendered has a fair value that is determinable  within  reasonable
limits or (2) the transactions lack commercial substance.  SFAS 153 is effective
for  nonmonetary  asset  exchanges  occurring in fiscal periods  beginning after
June 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material
effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

                                       39

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (continued)


     In December 2004,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment. SFAS
No. 123R is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation,
and supersedes APB 25. Among other items, SFAS 123R eliminates the use of APB 25
and the  intrinsic  value  method  of  accounting,  and  requires  companies  to
recognize  the cost of employee  services  received  in  exchange  for awards of
equity  instruments,  based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the
financial  statements.  The effective  date of SFAS 123R is the first  reporting
period  beginning after June 15,  2005, which is third quarter 2005 for calendar
year companies, such as ourselves, although early adoption is allowed. SFAS 123R
permits   companies  to  adopt  its   requirements   using  either  a  "modified
prospective" method, or a "modified  retrospective"  method. Under the "modified
prospective" method, compensation cost is recognized in the financial statements
beginning with the effective  date,  based on the  requirements of SFAS 123R for
all share-based  payments granted after that date, and based on the requirements
of SFAS 123 for all unvested  awards granted prior to the effective date of SFAS
123R. Under the "modified  retrospective"  method, the requirements are the same
as under the "modified prospective" method, but also permits entities to restate
financial  statements of previous periods based on pro forma disclosures made in
accordance  with SFAS 123. We currently  utilize a standard option pricing model
(i.e.,  Black-Scholes)  to measure  the fair value of stock  options  granted to
employees. While SFAS 123R permits entities to continue to use such a model, the
standard also permits the use of a "lattice"  model.  We have not yet determined
which model we will use to measure the fair value of employee stock options upon
the adoption of SFAS 123R.  See Note 8 for further  information.  SFAS 123R also
requires  that the  benefits  associated  with the tax  deductions  in excess of
recognized  compensation  cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than
as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement
will reduce net operating  cash flows and increase net  financing  cash flows in
periods  after the effective  date.  These future  amounts  cannot be estimated,
because  they depend on,  among other  things,  when  employees  exercise  stock
options. However, the amount of operating cash flows recognized in prior periods
for such excess tax deductions,  as shown in our Consolidated  Statement of Cash
Flows, were $4.5 million,  $5.5 million,  and $1.5 million,  for the years ended
December 31, 2004,  2003, and 2002,  respectively.  We currently expect to adopt
SFAS 123R effective July 1,  2005;  however, we have not yet determined which of
the  aforementioned  adoption  methods we will use and are still  evaluating the
standard.  See Note 8 for further  information on our  stock-based  compensation
plans.

                                       40

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     We claim the protection of the safe-harbor for  forward-looking  statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You
can  identify  these  statements  by  forward-looking  words  such as  "expect,"
"believe," "anticipate," "good," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "project," "will"
or similar words. In addition,  statements  contained  within this annual report
that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements
discussing among other things,  expected growth, store development and expansion
strategy,  business  strategies,  future revenues and future performance.  These
forward-looking  statements  are based on  estimates,  projections,  beliefs and
assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and results. Such statements
are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions,  including, but not limited
to,  competition,  product  demand,  the market for auto  parts,  the economy in
general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to
hire and retain  qualified  employees,  risks associated with the integration of
acquired businesses,  weather,  terrorist activities, war and the threat of war.
Actual  results may  materially  differ from  anticipated  results  described or
implied in these  forward-looking  statements.  Please refer to the Risk Factors
sections of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004,
for additional factors that could materially affect our financial performance.

                                       41

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

        MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The management of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries  (the Company) is
responsible for  establishing  and maintaining  adequate  internal  control over
financial  reporting.  Our  internal  control  system  is  designed  to  provide
reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting and the
preparation  of financial  statements for external  purposes in accordance  with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

Internal control over financial  reporting  includes all policies and procedures
that:

o    pertain  to  the  maintenance  of  records  that,  in  reasonable   detail,
     accurately  and fairly reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the
     assets of the Company;

o    provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
     permit  preparation  of financial  statements in accordance  with GAAP, and
     that  receipts  and  expenditures  of the  Company  are being  made only in
     accordance with  authorizations of management and directors of the Company;
     and

o    provide reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention or timely detection of
     unauthorized  acquisition,  use or disposition of the Company's assets that
     could have a material effect on the financial statements.

All  internal  control  systems,  no matter  how well  designed,  have  inherent
limitations.  Therefore,  even those  systems  determined  to be  effective  can
provide  only   reasonable   assurance  with  respect  to  financial   statement
preparation   and   presentation.   Also,   projections  of  any  evaluation  of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk. Over time, controls may
become  inadequate  because of changes in  conditions  or  deterioration  in the
degree of compliance with policies or procedures.

Under the supervision and with the  participation  of our management,  including
our principal Executive Officer and our principal Financial Officer, we assessed
the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial  reporting as
of December 31, 2004. In making this assessment,  we used the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway  Commission (COSO)
in Internal Control - Integrated Framework.  Based on our assessment, we believe
that as of December 31, 2004,  the  Company's  internal  control over  financial
reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Ernst & Young LLP,  Independent  Registered Public Accounting Firm, that audited
the Company's consolidated financial statements has issued an attestation report
on  management's  assessment of the Company's  internal  control over  financial
reporting, as stated in their report which is included herein.

/s/ Greg Henslee                         /s/ Jim Batten
--------------------------------         -------------------------------------
Chief Executive Officer &                Executive Vice President of Finance &
Co-President                             Chief Financial Officer

                                       42

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of  Directors  and  Shareholders  of  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  and
Subsidiaries

We  have  audited   management's   assessment,   included  in  the  accompanying
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,  that O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries  maintained  effective  internal control over
financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004,  based on criteria  established in
Internal  Control-Integrated  Framework  issued by the  Committee of  Sponsoring
Organizations  of  the  Treadway   Commission  (the  COSO  criteria).   O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries'  management is responsible  for maintaining
effective  internal  control over financial  reporting and for its assessment of
the   effectiveness   of  internal   control  over  financial   reporting.   Our
responsibility  is to  express  an opinion  on  management's  assessment  and an
opinion on the  effectiveness  of the company's  internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.

We conducted  our audit in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about whether  effective
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in all  material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting,  evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating
the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other  procedures as we considered  necessary in the  circumstances.  We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company's  internal control over financial  reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the assets of the company;  (2)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use, or  disposition  of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent  limitations,  internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion,  management's  assessment  that  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and
Subsidiaries  maintained  effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material  respects,  based on the
COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries
maintained, in all material respects,  effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the consolidated balance sheets of
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and
the related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders'  equity, and cash
flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  2004 of
O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries and our report dated March 7, 2005
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

                                          /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
March 7, 2005
                                       43
<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)
<table>
<caption>
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                      (In thousands, except per share data)
                                                 December 31,
                                             2004           2003
                                          ------------------------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>
Assets
Current assets:
 Cash and cash equivalents..............  $   69,028   $    21,094
 Accounts receivable, less
   allowance for doubtful accounts
   of $3,417 in 2004 and $986 in 2003...      60,928        52,235
 Amounts receivable from vendors, net...      52,976        50,695
 Inventory..............................     625,320       523,750
 Deferred income taxes..................           -         4,753
 Other current assets...................       5,225         4,399
                                          ------------------------
    Total current assets................     813,477       656,926

Property and equipment, at cost:
 Land...................................      82,781        58,571
 Buildings..............................     278,752       212,937
 Leasehold improvements.................     108,144        79,994
 Furniture, fixtures and equipment .....     257,890       220,123
 Vehicles...............................      64,227        54,517
                                          ------------------------
                                             791,794       626,142
 Accumulated depreciation and
   amortization.........................     224,301       177,084
                                          ------------------------
    Net property and equipment..........     567,493       449,058

Notes receivable, less current portion..      21,690        24,313
Other assets, net.......................      29,697        26,736
                                          ------------------------
Total assets............................  $1,432,357    $1,157,033
                                          ========================

</table>
                                       44
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                     Consolidated Balance Sheets (continued)

<table>
<caption>

                                                  December 31,
                                             2004          2003
                                          ------------------------
                                                 (In thousands)
<S>                                       <C>           <C>
Liabilities and shareholders' equity
Current liabilities:
  Income taxes payable..................  $    9,736    $    6,872
  Accounts payable......................     240,548       145,954
  Self insurance reserve................      25,174        18,847
  Accrued payroll.......................      15,130        17,307
  Accrued benefits and withholdings.....      10,620         8,521
  Deferred income taxes.................       7,198             -
  Other current liabilities.............      24,817        16,883
  Current portion of long-term debt.....         592           925
                                          ------------------------
    Total current liabilities...........     333,815       215,309

Long-term debt, less current portion....     100,322       120,977
Deferred income taxes...................      38,440        29,448
Other liabilities.......................      11,963         7,014
Commitments and contingencies...........           -             -

Shareholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $0.01 par value:
    Authorized shares-5,000,000
    Issued and outstanding shares-none..           -             -
  Common stock, $0.01 par value:
    Authorized shares-90,000,000
    Issued and outstanding shares-
      55,377,130 in 2004 and
      54,664,976 in 2003................         554           547
Additional paid-in capital .............     326,650       302,691
Retained earnings.......................     620,613       481,047
                                          ------------------------
Total shareholders' equity..............     947,817       784,285
                                          ------------------------
Total liabilities and
  shareholders' equity..................  $1,432,357    $1,157,033
                                          ========================
</table>

                             See accompanying notes.
                                       45
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                        Consolidated Statements Of Income
<table>
<caption>
                                                 Years ended December 31,
                                             2004        2003       2002
                                          ----------------------------------
                                         (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                       <C>         <C>         <C>
Product sales...........................  $1,721,241  $1,511,816  $1,312,490
Cost of goods sold, including warehouse
  and distribution expenses.............     978,076     873,481     759,090
                                          ----------------------------------
Gross profit............................     743,165     638,335     553,400
Operating, selling, general and
  administrative expenses...............     552,707     473,060     415,099
                                          ----------------------------------
Operating income........................     190,458     165,275     138,301
Other income (expense):
  Interest expense......................      (4,700)     (6,864)     (9,248)
  Interest income.......................         901         298         989
  Other, net............................       1,078       1,333         940
                                          ----------------------------------
                                              (2,721)     (5,233)     (7,319)
                                          ----------------------------------
Income before income taxes and cumulative
  effect of accounting change...........     187,737     160,042     130,982
Provision for income taxes..............      70,063      59,955      48,990
Income before cumulative effect of
                                          ----------------------------------
  accounting change.....................     117,674     100,087      81,992
Cumulative effect of accounting change,
  net of tax $13,303....................      21,892           -           -
                                          ----------------------------------
Net income..............................  $  139,566  $  100,087  $   81,992
                                          ==================================
Basic income per common share:
Income before cumulative effect of
  accounting change.....................  $     2.14  $     1.86  $     1.54
Cumulative effect of accounting change..        0.40           -           -
                                          ----------------------------------
Net income per common share.............  $     2.54  $     1.86  $     1.54
                                          ==================================
Weighted-average common shares
  outstanding...........................      55,010      53,908      53,114
                                          ==================================
Income per common share-assuming dilution:
Income before cumulative effect of
  accounting change.....................  $     2.11  $     1.84  $     1.53
Cumulative effect of accounting change..        0.40           -           -
Net income per common share-
                                          ----------------------------------
  assuming dilution.....................  $     2.51  $     1.84  $     1.53
                                          ==================================
Adjusted weighted-average common
  shares outstanding....................      55,711      54,530      53,692
                                          ==================================
</table>
                                       46
                             See accompanying notes.

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                 Consolidated Statements Of Shareholders' Equity
<table>
<caption>
                                                                 Additional
                                                 Common Stock      Paid-In    Retained
                                             Shares   Par Value    Capital     Earnings     Total
                                             ------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  (In thousands)
<S>                                          <C>      <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Balance at December 31, 2001..............   52,851   $     528   $ 256,795   $ 298,968   $ 556,291
  Issuance of common stock under
    employee benefit plans................      223           3       6,094           -       6,097
  Issuance of common stock under
    stock option plans....................      297           3       4,677           -       4,680
  Tax benefit of stock options exercised..        -           -       1,464           -       1,464
  Net income..............................        -           -           -      81,992      81,992
                                             ------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2002..............   53,371         534     269,030     380,960     650,524
  Issuance of common stock under
    employee benefit plans................      242           2       6,746           -       6,748
  Issuance of common stock under
    stock option plans....................    1,052          11      21,429           -      21,440
  Tax benefit of stock options exercised..        -           -       5,486           -       5,486
  Net income..............................        -           -           -     100,087     100,087
                                             ------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2003..............   54,665         547     302,691     481,047     784,285
  Issuance of common stock under
    employee benefit plans................      221           2       8,358           -       8,360
  Issuance of common stock under
    stock option plans....................      491           5      11,075           -      11,080
  Tax benefit of stock options exercised..        -           -       4,526           -       4,526
  Net income..............................        -           -           -     139,566     139,566
                                             ------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2004..............   55,377   $     554   $ 326,650   $ 620,613   $ 947,817
                                             ======================================================
</table>

                                                        See accompanying notes.
                                       47
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
<table>
<caption>
                                                  Years ended December 31,
                                                2004       2003        2002
                                            ---------------------------------
                                                       (In thousands)
Operating activities
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
Net income................................  $ 139,566   $ 100,087   $  81,992
Adjustments to reconcile net income to
 net cash provided by operating activities:
  Cumulative effect of accounting change..    (21,892)          -           -
  Depreciation............................     53,126      41,216      35,923
  Amortization............................      1,199       1,158         984

  Provision for doubtful accounts
    and notes.............................      2,942       2,461       1,873
  Loss (gain) on sale of property
    and equipment.........................         46        (264)        (58)
  Deferred income taxes...................      7,640      13,796       5,666
  Common stock contributed to employee
    benefit plans.........................      5,067       4,026       3,512
  Tax benefit of stock options exercised..      4,526       5,486       1,464
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable...................    (11,636)     (9,108)     (5,701)
    Amounts receivable from vendors ......     (3,606)     (4,824)     (4,478)
    Inventory.............................    (66,375)    (19,652)    (56,305)
    Refundable income taxes...............          -           -         168
    Other current assets..................       (835)       (540)       (788)
    Other assets..........................        (50)     (4,005)          -
    Accounts payable......................     94,594      29,760      23,495
    Income taxes payable..................      2,865      (2,926)      9,798
    Accrued payroll.......................     (2,177)      2,050       2,391
    Accrued benefits and withholdings.....      8,427       8,203       5,127
    Other current liabilities.............      7,934        (267)     (1,148)
    Other liabilities.....................      5,175       2,179         618
                                            ---------------------------------
      Net cash provided by
        operating activities..............    226,536     168,836     104,533
                                            ---------------------------------
Investing activities
Purchases of property and equipment.......   (173,486)   (136,497)   (102,257)
Proceeds from sale of property
  and equipment ..........................      1,653       1,273       2,278
Payments received on notes receivable.....      2,634         871         862
(Investment in) reduction of other assets.     (2,787)      3,793      (6,268)
                                            ---------------------------------
      Net cash used in
        investing activities.............    (171,986)   (130,560)   (105,385)
                                            ---------------------------------
Financing activities
Payments on notes payable to bank........           -           -      (5,000)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt.           -      27,900     179,640
Principal payments on long-term debt.....     (20,989)    (98,577)   (166,761)
Net proceeds from issuance of
  common stock...........................      14,373      24,162       7,265
                                            ---------------------------------
     Net cash (used in) provided by
       financing activities..............      (6,616)    (46,515)     15,144
                                            ---------------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and
  cash equivalents.......................      47,934      (8,239)     14,292
Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of year......................      21,094      29,333      15,041
                                            ---------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year.   $  69,028   $  21,094   $  29,333
                                            =================================
</table>

                             See accompanying notes.
                                       48
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature of Business

     O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  (the  Company)  is a  specialty  retailer  and
supplier of automotive  aftermarket  parts,  tools,  supplies and accessories to
both the do-it-yourself (DIY) customer and the professional installer throughout
Alabama, Arkansas,  Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
Louisiana,  Mississippi,  Missouri,  Nebraska,  North Carolina,  Oklahoma, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.

Principles of Consolidation

     The consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of the Company
and its wholly owned  subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany  balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Revenue Recognition

     Over-the-counter   retail  sales  are  recorded  when  the  customer  takes
possession of merchandise. Sales to professional installers, also referred to as
"commercial  sales",  are recorded upon delivery of merchandise to the customer,
generally  at the  customer's  place  of  business.  Wholesale  sales  to  other
retailers,  also  referred to as "jobber  sales," are recorded  upon shipment of
merchandise. All sales are recorded net of estimated allowances and discounts.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of the  consolidated  financial  statements,  in conformity
with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United  States  (GAAP),
requires  management to make estimates and  assumptions  that affect the amounts
reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Inventory

     Inventory,  which  consists of automotive  hard parts,  maintenance  items,
accessories and tools, is stated at the lower of cost or market.  Inventory also
includes related  procurement,  warehousing and distribution  center costs. Cost
has been determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. If the first-in,
first-out  (FIFO)  method of  costing  inventory  had been used by the  Company,
inventory would have been  $628,309,000 and $513,365,000 as of December 31, 2004
and  2003,  respectively.  Please  refer  to  Note 2 for  cumulative  effect  of
accounting change.

                                       49
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Amounts Receivable from Vendors

     The Company  receives  concessions  from its  vendors  through a variety of
programs  and  arrangements,  including  co-operative  advertising,  devaluation
programs,  allowances for warranties and volume purchase  rebates.  Co-operative
advertising allowances that are incremental to our advertising program, specific
to a product or event and identifiable for accounting purposes are reported as a
reduction  of  advertising  expense  in the  period  in  which  the  advertising
occurred.  All other vendor concessions are recognized as a reduction of cost of
sales when recognized in the consolidated  income statement.  Amounts receivable
from vendors also includes amounts due to the Company for changeover merchandise
and product returns.  Reserves for uncollectable amounts receivable from vendors
are  provided  for  in  the  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  and
consistently have been within management's expectations.

Property and Equipment

     Property and equipment are carried at cost.  Depreciation  is provided on a
straight-line  method over the  estimated  useful  lives of the assets.  Service
lives for  property  and  equipment  generally  range from three to forty years.
Leasehold  improvements  are amortized  over the lesser of the lease term or the
estimated  economic life of the assets.  The lease term includes renewal options
determined by  management at lease  inception for which failure to renew options
would result in a substantial  economic penalty to the Company.  Maintenance and
repairs are charged to expense as incurred.  Upon  retirement or sale,  the cost
and  accumulated  depreciation  are  eliminated and the gain or loss, if any, is
included  in the  determination  of net income as a  component  of other  income
(expense).  The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events
or changes in  circumstances  indicate that the carrying  amount of an asset may
not be fully recoverable.

     The Company  capitalizes  interest costs as a component of  construction in
progress,  based on the  weighted-average  rates paid for long-term  borrowings.
Total interest costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002, were $2,579,000, $1,808,000 and $369,000, respectively.

Income Taxes

     The  Company  accounts  for  income  taxes  using the  liability  method in
accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109. The
liability   method  provides  that  deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  are
determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and  liabilities  and are  measured  using the enacted tax rates and laws
that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.

                                       50

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Advertising Costs

     The Company expenses  advertising  costs as incurred.  Advertising  expense
charged to operations  amounted to $22,999,000,  $19,533,000 and $14,442,000 for
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Pre-opening Costs

     Costs associated with the opening of new stores, which consist primarily of
payroll and occupancy costs, are charged to operations as incurred.

Stock Option Plans

     The Company has elected to follow  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No.
25,   Accounting   for  Stock  Issued  to   Employees   (APB  25),  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its  employee  stock  options  because,  as
discussed in Note 8, the alternative  fair value  accounting  provided for under
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation,  requires  the use of
option  valuation  models that were not  developed  for use in valuing  employee
stock  options.  SFAS  No.  148,  Accounting  for  Stock-Based   Compensation  -
Transition  and  Disclosure,   further  established  accounting  and  disclosure
requirements  using a  fair-value-based  method of  accounting  for  stock-based
employee compensation plans. Under the intrinsic value method in accordance with
APB 25,  because the exercise  price of the Company's  stock options  equals the
market  price of the  underlying  stock on the date of  grant,  no  compensation
expense is recognized.

                                       51
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Stock Option Plans (continued)

     For  purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  the  estimated  fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the  options'  vesting  period.  During the
fourth  quarter of 2004,  the Company  changed  its method of applying  its LIFO
accounting  policy for inventory  costs (see Note 2 - Accounting  Changes).  Our
stock  compensation pro forma information for the years ended December 31, is as
follows,  both  excluding and including the effects of the inventory  accounting
change:
<table>
<caption>
                                             2004         2003        2002
                                          ---------------------------------
                                        (In thousands, except per share data)
Excluding inventory accounting change
<S>                                       <C>         <C>         <C>
Net income, as reported.................  $ 139,566   $ 100,087   $  81,992
Stock-based compensation expense, net
  of tax, as reported...................          -           -           -
Stock-based compensation expense, net
  of tax, under fair value method.......      7,468       9,204       7,217
                                          ---------------------------------
Pro forma net income....................  $ 132,098   $  90,883   $  74,775
                                          =================================
Pro forma basic net income per share....  $    2.40   $    1.69   $    1.41
                                          =================================
Pro forma net income per share-
  assuming dilution.....................  $    2.37   $    1.67   $    1.39
                                          =================================
Net income per share, as reported
  Basic.................................  $    2.54   $    1.86   $    1.54
                                          =================================
  Assuming dilution.....................  $    2.51   $    1.84   $    1.53
                                          =================================
Including inventory accounting change
Net income..............................              $ 100,599   $  84,633
Stock based compensation expense, net
  of tax, as reported...................                      -           -
Stock based compensation expense, net
  of tax, under fair value method.......                  9,204       7,217
                                                      ---------------------
Pro forma net income....................              $  91,395   $  77,416
                                                      =====================
Pro forma basic net income per share....              $    1.70   $    1.46
                                                      =====================
Pro forma net income per share -
  assuming dilution.....................              $    1.68   $    1.44
                                                      =====================
</table>
                                       52



<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Earnings per Share

     Basic  earnings  per  share is based  on the  weighted-average  outstanding
common  shares.  Diluted  earnings  per  share is based on the  weighted-average
outstanding shares adjusted for the effect of common stock  equivalents.  Common
stock equivalents that could potentially  dilute basic earnings per share in the
future that were not  included in the fully  diluted  computation  because  they
would have been  antidilutive  were  272,000,  66,750 and  816,250 for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

 Cash Equivalents

     Cash equivalents  consist of investments with maturities of 90 days or less
at the day of purchase.

Concentration of Credit Risk

     Financial   instruments   that   potentially   subject   the   Company   to
concentrations  of credit risk  consist  primarily  of cash,  cash  equivalents,
accounts receivable and notes receivable.

     The  Company  grants  credit to certain  customers  who meet the  Company's
pre-established credit requirements.  Concentrations of credit risk with respect
to these receivables are limited because the Company's customer base consists of
a large number of smaller customers, thus spreading the credit risk. The Company
controls  credit risk through  credit  approvals,  credit limits and  monitoring
procedures.  Generally  the  Company  does not require  security  when credit is
granted  to  customers.   Credit  losses  are  provided  for  in  the  Company's
consolidated financial statements and consistently have been within management's
expectations.

     The carrying value of the Company's financial  instruments,  including cash
and cash equivalents,  accounts receivable, accounts payable and long-term debt,
as reported in the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets,  approximates fair
value.

Notes Receivable

     The  Company had notes  receivable  from  vendors  and other third  parties
amounting  to  $25,108,000  and  $27,742,000  at  December  31,  2004 and  2003,
respectively. The notes receivable, which bear interest at rates ranging from 0%
to 10%, are due in varying amounts through August 2017.

                                       53





<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

New Accounting Pronouncements

     In November 2004, the FASB issued  SFAS 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment
of ARB No. 43,  Chapter 4.  The standard  requires that abnormal amounts of idle
capacity and spoilage  costs should be excluded  from the cost of inventory  and
expensed when incurred.  The provision is effective for fiscal periods beginning
after  June 15,  2005. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard
to have a material  effect on its financial  position,  results of operations or
cash flows.

     In  December  2004,  the FASB issued  SFAS 153,  Exchanges  of  Nonmonetary
Assets,  an amendment of APB No. 29,  Accounting for  Nonmonetary  Transactions.
SFAS 153  requires  exchanges of  productive  assets to be accounted for at fair
value, rather than at carryover basis, unless (1) neither the asset received nor
the asset  surrendered has a fair value that is determinable  within  reasonable
limits or (2) the transactions lack commercial substance.  SFAS 153 is effective
for  nonmonetary  asset  exchanges  occurring in fiscal periods  beginning after
June 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have
a material  effect on its  financial  position,  results of  operations  or cash
flows.

     In December 2004,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment. SFAS
No. 123R is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation,
and supersedes APB 25. Among other items, SFAS 123R eliminates the use of APB 25
and the  intrinsic  value  method  of  accounting,  and  requires  companies  to
recognize  the cost of employee  services  received  in  exchange  for awards of
equity  instruments,  based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the
financial  statements.  The effective  date of SFAS 123R is the first  reporting
period  beginning after June 15,  2005, which is third quarter 2005 for calendar
year companies,  although early adoption is allowed. SFAS 123R permits companies
to adopt its requirements  using either a "modified  prospective"  method,  or a
"modified  retrospective"  method.  Under  the  "modified  prospective"  method,
compensation cost is recognized in the financial  statements  beginning with the
effective  date,  based on the  requirements  of SFAS  123R for all  share-based
payments  granted after that date, and based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for
all unvested awards granted prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R.  Under the
"modified  retrospective"  method,  the  requirements  are the same as under the
"modified  prospective"  method,  but also permits entities to restate financial
statements of previous periods based on pro forma disclosures made in accordance
with SFAS 123. The Company  currently  utilizes a standard  option pricing model
(i.e.,  Black-Scholes)  to measure  the fair value of stock  options  granted to
employees. While SFAS 123R permits entities to continue to use such a model, the
standard  also  permits  the use of a "lattice"  model.  The Company has not yet
determined  which model it will use to measure the fair value of employee  stock
options upon the adoption of SFAS 123R. See Note 8 for further information. SFAS
123R also  requires  that the benefits  associated  with the tax  deductions  in
excess of  recognized  compensation  cost be reported as a financing  cash flow,
rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This
requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash
flows in periods  after the  effective  date.  These  future  amounts  cannot be
estimated,  because they depend on, among other things,  when employees exercise
stock options.  However,  the amount of operating cash flows recognized in prior
periods for such excess tax deductions,  as shown in the Company's  Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows, were $4.5 million,  $5.5 million, and $1.5 million, for
the years ended  December 31, 2004,  2003, and 2002,  respectively.  The Company
currently  expects to adopt  SFAS 123R  effective  July 1,  2005;  however,  the
Company has not yet determined which of the  aforementioned  adoption methods it
will use and is still evaluating the standard.

                                       54
<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Reclassifications

     The Company made certain  reclassifications  to prior periods to conform to
current year presentation.

Leases

     The Company's policy is to amortize leasehold  improvements over the lesser
of the lease term or the estimated economic life of those assets. Generally, for
stores the lease term is the base lease term and for  distribution  centers  the
lease term includes the base lease term plus certain  renewal option periods for
which renewal is reasonably  assured and failure to exercise the renewal  option
would result in an economic  penalty.  The  calculation for  straight-line  rent
expense is based on the same lease term. Previously, leasehold improvements were
amortized  over a period of time which included both the base lease term and the
first renewal option period of the lease and rent expense was recorded as paid.

     As a result,  the Company's 2004 statement of income includes an adjustment
to correct its lease accounting of $10.4 million ($3.5 million related to 2004),
$6.5 million, net of tax. Prior years' financial statements will not be restated
due to the  immateriality  of  the  amount  to the  results  of  operations  and
statement of financial  position for the current year or any individual year. As
the correction  relates solely to accounting  treatment,  it does not affect the
Company's historical or future cash flows.

     The effect from these  corrections,  which is  reflected  in the  financial
statements, is an increase in depreciation expense of $6.0 million ($2.6 million
related to 2004),  an increase in rent  expense of $4.4  million  ($0.9  million
related to 2004), and a decrease in income tax expense of $3.9 million.

                                       55
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 2 - ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     The  Company's  inventory  consists of automotive  hard parts,  maintenance
items,  accessories  and tools.  During the fourth  quarter of 2004, the Company
changed its method of applying its LIFO accounting  policy for inventory  costs.
Under  the  new  method,  the  Company  has  inventoried  certain   procurement,
warehousing and distribution  center costs. The Company's previous method was to
recognize  those costs as  incurred,  reported as a component  of costs of goods
sold.  The Company  believes the change in  application  of the LIFO  accounting
method is  preferable  as it better  matches  revenues  and  expenses and is the
prevalent  method used by other  entities  within the  Company's  industry.  The
cumulative  effect  of this  change  in  application  of  accounting  method  is
$21,892,000  as of January 1, 2004,  net of the related  deferred  tax effect of
$13,303,000.  The change  increased  2004 net income by  $2,722,000 or $0.05 per
share. Prior 2004 quarterly  financial  statements have been restated to reflect
this change, effective January 1, 2004, (see Restatement of Quarterly Results in
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations). Pro forma changes to results of operations as if the new method had
been applied for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 are presented below.

<table>
<caption>
                                                           Years Ended December 31,
                                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              (in thousands)
                                   As originally                     As originally
                                    reported               Pro forma   reported                Pro forma
                                       2003    Adjustment     2003       2002      Adjustment     2002
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
<S>                                <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Product sales....................  $1,511,816  $        -  $1,511,816  $1,312,490  $        -  $1,312,490
Cost of goods sold, including
  warehouse and distribution
  expense........................     873,481        (823)    872,658     759,090      (4,246)    754,844

Operating, selling, general and
  administrative expenses........     473,060           -     473,060     415,099           -     415,099
                                   ----------------------------------  ----------------------------------
  Operating income...............     165,275         823     166,098     138,301       4,246     142,547
  Other expense, net.............      (5,233)          -      (5,233)     (7,319)          -      (7,319)
                                   ----------------------------------  ----------------------------------
  Income before income taxes.....     160,042         823     160,865     130,982       4,246     135,228
  Provision for income taxes.....      59,955         311      60,266      48,990       1,605      50,595
                                   ----------------------------------  ----------------------------------
Net income.......................  $  100,087  $      512  $  100,599  $   81,992  $    2,641  $   84,633
                                   ==================================  ==================================
Basic income per share...........  $     1.86  $     0.01  $     1.87  $     1.54  $     0.05  $     1.59
                                   ==================================  ==================================
Net income per share -
  assuming dilution..............  $     1.84  $     0.00  $     1.84  $     1.53  $     0.05  $     1.58
                                   ==================================  ==================================
Weighted-average common
  shares outstanding.............      53,908      53,908      53,908      53,114      53,114      53,114
                                   ==================================  ==================================
Weighted-average common shares
  outstanding-assuming dilution..      54,530      54,530      54,530      53,692      53,692      53,692
                                   ==================================  ==================================
</table>

NOTE 3-RELATED PARTIES

     The  Company  leases  certain  land and  buildings  related to fifty of its
O'Reilly  Auto Parts stores  under  six-year  operating  lease  agreements  with
O'Reilly  Investment  Company and O'Reilly Real Estate Company,  partnerships in
which certain shareholders and directors of the Company are partners. Generally,
these lease  agreements  provide for renewal options for an additional six years
at the option of the Company. Additionally, the Company leases certain

                                       56

<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 3-RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)

land and buildings related to twenty-one of its O'Reilly Auto Parts stores under
15-year operating lease agreements with O'Reilly-Wooten 2000 LLC, which is owned
by certain  shareholders  of the  Company.  Generally,  these  lease  agreements
provide for renewal options for two additional  five-year terms at the option of
the Company (see Note 5). Rent payments  under these  operating  leases  totaled
$3,374,000, $3,238,000 and $3,222,000 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

NOTE 4-LONG-TERM DEBT

     On July 29, 2002, the Company amended the unsecured,  three-year syndicated
credit  facility  (Credit  Facility)  in the amount of $150 million led by Wells
Fargo Bank as the Administrative Agent,  replacing a five-year syndicated credit
facility. The Credit Facility is guaranteed by all of the Company's subsidiaries
and may be increased to a total of $200 million,  subject to the availability of
such additional  credit from either existing banks within the Credit Facility or
other banks.  At December 31, 2004 the Company had no  outstanding  balance with
the Credit  Facility.  The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus a spread
ranging  from 0.875% to 1.375%  (2.06% at December 31, 2003) and expires in July
2005.  At  December  31,  2003,   $20.0  million  of  the  Credit  Facility  was
outstanding.  Accordingly,  the Company's aggregate  availability for additional
borrowings  under the Credit  Facility was $128.7  million and $119.0 million at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     The Company  issues  stand-by  letters of credit  provided by a $30 million
sublimit  under the Credit  Facility  that reduce  available  borrowings.  These
letters of credit are issued  primarily to satisfy the  requirements  of workers
compensation,  general liability and other insurance policies. Substantially all
of the  outstanding  letters  of credit  have a  one-year  term from the date of
issuance  and have been  issued to replace  surety  bonds  that were  previously
issued.  Letters  of  credit  totaling  $21.3  million  and $11.0  million  were
outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     On May 16, 2001, the Company  completed a $100 million private placement of
two series of unsecured  senior notes (Senior  Notes).  The Series 2001-A Senior
Notes were issued for $75 million,  are due May 16, 2006,  and bear  interest at
7.72% per year. The Series 2001-B Senior Notes were issued for $25 million,  are
due May 16, 2008,  and bear  interest at 7.92% per year.  The private  placement
agreement allows for a total of $200 million of Senior Notes issuable in series.
Proceeds from the transaction were used to reduce  outstanding  borrowings under
the Company's former revolving credit facility.

     The Company leases certain  computer  equipment under a capitalized  lease.
The lease  agreement has a term of 30 months,  expiring in 2006. At December 31,
2004, the monthly  installment under this agreement was  approximately  $48,500.
The present value of the future minimum lease  payments  under these  agreements
totaled  $858,000 and $1,426,300 at December 31, 2004,  and 2003,  respectively,
which has been  classified as long-term  debt in the  accompanying  consolidated
financial statements. During 2004, the Company did not purchase any assets under
a capitalized  lease.  During 2003, the Company  purchased  $1,426,300 of assets
under a capitalized lease.

                                       57

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 4-LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)

     Principal  maturities  of  long-term  debt for each of the next five  years
ending December 31, are as follows (amounts in thousands):

<table>
                  <S>           <C>
                  2005          $      592
                  2006              75,300
                  2007                  17
                  2008              25,005
                  2009                   -
            Thereafter                   -
                                ----------
                                $  100,914
</table>

     Cash paid by the Company for interest  during the years ended  December 31,
2004,  2003,  and 2002,  amounted to  $4,960,000,  $6,864,000,  and  $9,248,000,
respectively.

NOTE 5-COMMITMENTS

Lease Commitments

     On June 26, 2003, we completed an amended and restated master  agreement to
our  $50  million  Synthetic  Operating  Lease  Facility  (the  Facility  or the
Synthetic  Lease)  with a group  of  financial  institutions.  The  terms of the
Facility  provide for an initial  lease period of five years,  a residual  value
guarantee of  approximately  $43.2  million at December  31, 2004,  and purchase
options on the  properties.  The Facility also contains a provision for an event
of default  whereby the lessor,  among other things,  may require us to purchase
any or all of the properties. One additional renewal period of five years may be
requested  from the lessor,  although the lessor is not  obligated to grant such
renewal.  The  amended  and  restated  Facility  has  been  accounted  for as an
operating  lease under SFAS No. 13 and related  interpretations,  including FASB
Interpretation No. 46. Future minimum rental commitments under the Facility have
been included in the table of future minimum annual rental commitments below.

                                       58

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


NOTE 5-COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

     The Company also leases certain office space,  retail stores,  property and
equipment under long-term, non-cancelable operating leases. Most of these leases
include  renewal options and some include options to purchase and provisions for
percentage  rent based on sales.  At December 31, 2004,  future  minimum  rental
payments under all of the Company's  operating  leases for each of the next five
years and in the aggregate are as follows (amounts in thousands):

<table>
                   Related   Non-related
                   Parties     Parties      Total
                  --------    --------    --------
           <S>    <C>         <C>         <C>
           2005   $  3,334    $ 33,041    $ 36,375
           2006      3,349      30,910      34,259
           2007      3,351      29,386      32,737
           2008      3,277      26,587      29,864
           2009      2,462      23,882      26,344
     Thereafter      7,479     182,629     190,108
                  --------    --------    ---------
                  $ 23,252    $326,435    $349,687
                  ========    ========    ========
</table>

     Rental expense amounted to $39,145,000, $31,865,000 and $29,652,000 for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. 2004 rental expense
includes an adjustment  to correct lease  accounting in the amount of $4,367,000
($900,000 related to 2004.) See Note 1 - Leases for further details.

Other Commitments

     The Company had construction commitments, which totaled approximately $32.3
million, at December 31, 2004.

NOTE 6-LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is  involved in various  legal  proceedings  incidental  to the
conduct of its  business.  Although the Company  cannot  ascertain the amount of
liability  that it may incur from any of these  matters,  it does not  currently
believe that, in the aggregate,  they will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of  operations  or cash flows of the
Company.

                                       59
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 7-EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company  sponsors a  contributory  profit sharing and savings plan that
covers  substantially  all  employees  who are 21 years of age with at least six
months of service. A total of 1,600,000 shares of common stock were reserved for
issuance  under the plan.  Employees  may  contribute up to 100% of their annual
compensation subject to Internal Revenue Code maximum  limitations.  The Company
has agreed to make matching  contributions  equal to 50% of the first 2% of each
employee's contribution and 25% of the next 4% of each employee's  contribution.
Additional  contributions to the plan may be made as determined  annually by the
Board of  Directors.  After  two years of  service,  Company  contributions  and
earnings thereon vest at the rate of 20% per year. Company contributions charged
to operations amounted to $5,278,000 in 2004,  $4,353,000 in 2003 and $3,438,000
in 2002.  Company  contributions,  in the form of common  stock,  to the  profit
sharing and savings plan to match employee  contributions during the years ended
December 31 were as follows:

<table>
                      Year                         Market
                   Contributed       Shares         Value
                   ------------   ------------   ------------
                     <S>            <C>          <C>
                     2004           40,684       $1,766,000
                     2003           42,183        1,478,000
                     2002           38,354        1,136,000
</table>

     Profit sharing contributions accrued at December 31, and funded in the next
year  through  the  issuance  of shares of the  Company's  common  stock were as
follows:

<table>
                       Year                        Market
                      Funded         Shares         Value
                   ------------   ------------   ------------
                     <S>            <C>          <C>
                     2004           78,730       $3,000,000
                     2003           85,184        2,300,000
                     2002           77,876        2,200,000
</table>
                                       60

<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 7-EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)

     Additionally,  the Company has  adopted a stock  purchase  plan under which
1,300,000  shares of common stock were  reserved for  issuance.  Under the plan,
substantially  all  employees  and  non-employee  directors  have  the  right to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock monthly at a price equal to 85% of
the fair market value of the stock, not to exceed 5% of the participants  annual
salary. Purchases of common stock under the plan during the years ended December
31 were as follows:

<table>
                                              Weighted
                                               Average       Market
                 Year           Shares       Fair Value       Value
              ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------
                <S>            <C>            <C>            <C>
                2004            93,877        $41.70         $3,915,000
                2003           103,457         32.38          3,350,000
                2002           102,662         29.62          3,041,000
</table>

     The Company has in effect a  performance  incentive  plan for the Company's
senior  management  under  which  400,000  shares  of stock  were  reserved  for
issuance.  Shares  awarded under the plan vest equally over a three-year  period
and are held in escrow until such  vesting has  occurred.  Shares are  forfeited
when an employee ceases employment. Shares, net of forfeitures, issued under the
plan during the years ended December 31 were as follows:

<table>
                       Year                         Market
                      Funded        Shares           Value
                   ------------   ------------   ------------
                     <S>            <C>            <C>
                     2004             7,917        $302,000
                     2003            10,530         248,000
                     2002             4,779         175,000

</table>

NOTE 8-SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Shareholder Rights Plan

     On May 17, 2002, the Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder  Rights Plan.
One Right was  distributed  for each share of common  stock,  par value $.01 per
share, of the Company held by stockholders of record as of the close of business
on May  31,  2002.  The  Rights  initially  entitle  stockholders  to buy a unit
representing one  one-hundredth of a share of a new series of preferred stock of
the Company for $160 and expire on May 30, 2012.  The Rights  generally  will be
exercisable  only if a person or group acquires  beneficial  ownership of 15% or
more of the Company's  common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer upon
consummation of which such person or group would beneficially own 15% or more of
the Company's common stock. If a person or group acquires  beneficial  ownership
of 15% or more of the Company's common stock, each Right (other than Rights held
by the  acquiror)  will,  unless the Rights are redeemed by the Company,  become
exercisable  upon payment of the exercise  price of $160 for common stock of the
Company  having a market value of twice the exercise  price of the Right. A copy
of the  Stockholder  Rights Plan was filed on May 28, 2002,  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, as Exhibit 99.1 to our report on Form 8-K.

Stock Option Plans

     The Company has a stock option plan under which  incentive stock options or
non-qualified  stock  options may be granted to officers and key  employees.  An
aggregate of 12,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance

                                       61

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 8-SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

Stock Option Plans (continued)

under this plan.  The exercise  price of options  granted shall not be less than
the fair  market  value of the stock on the date of grant and the  options  will
expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant.  Options granted  pursuant
to the plan become exercisable no sooner than six months from the date of grant.
All grants  under the plan since its  inception  have been  non-qualified  stock
option  grants.  A summary of  outstanding  stock  options under this plan is as
follows:

<table>
                                                             Number
                                       Price per Share     of Shares
                                      ------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>                  <C>
Outstanding at December 31, 2001....  $  8.69 - 37.62      3,277,135
  Granted...........................    24.96 - 35.48        712,500
  Exercised.........................     8.69 - 30.23       (296,858)
  Canceled..........................     8.75 - 38.00       (202,075)
                                      ------------------------------
Outstanding at December 31, 2002....  $  8.94 - 37.62      3,490,702
  Granted...........................    23.01 - 44.81      1,035,750
  Exercised.........................     8.94 - 37.62     (1,051,940)
  Canceled..........................     8.94 - 38.98       (222,413)
                                      ------------------------------
Outstanding at December 31, 2003....  $ 10.56 - 44.81      3,252,099
  Granted...........................    37.06 - 46.75        858,125
  Exercised.........................    10.56 - 40.39       (470,977)
  Canceled..........................    10.94 - 46.29       (239,114)
                                      ------------------------------
Outstanding at December 31, 2004....  $ 10.94 - 46.75      3,400,133

</table>

     Options to purchase  1,612,600,  1,223,409 and  1,566,104  shares of common
stock were exercisable at December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.

                                       62

<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 8-SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

     The Company also maintains a stock option plan for  non-employee  directors
of the Company  under which  500,000  shares of common  stock were  reserved for
issuance.  All  director  stock  options are granted at fair market value on the
date of grant and expire on the earlier of termination of service to the Company
as a director or seven years. Options granted under this plan become exercisable
six months from the date of grant. A summary of outstanding  stock options under
this plan is as follows:

<table>
                                                             Number
                                       Price per Share      of Shares
                                      -------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>                    <C>
Outstanding at December 31, 2001....  $ 12.44 -  23.91        50,000
  Granted...........................             29.02        30,000
                                      ------------------------------
Outstanding at December 31, 2002....  $ 12.44 -  29.02        80,000
  Granted...........................             29.20        30,000
                                      ------------------------------
Outstanding at December 31, 2003....  $ 12.44 -  29.20       110,000
  Granted...........................             41.67        12,500
  Exercised.........................    12.44  - 20.65       (20,000)
                                      ------------------------------
Outstanding at December 31, 2004....  $ 20.65  - 41.67       102,500

</table>

     All options under this plan were  exercisable  at December 31, 2004,  2003,
and 2002.

     Pro forma  information  regarding  net  income  and  earnings  per share is
required  by SFAS  No.  123,  and has  been  determined  as if the  Company  had
accounted  for its employee and  non-employee  director  stock options under the
fair value method.

     The fair values for these options were estimated at the date of grant using
a  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with  the  following  weighted-average
assumptions for 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively:  risk-free interest rates of
3.01%,  3.61% and 4.01%;  volatility factors of the expected market price of the
Company's common stock of .404, .458, and .481; and expected life of the options
of 4.0,  9.4 and 9.0 years.  The Company  assumed a 0%  dividend  yield over the
expected  life of the  options.  The  weighted-average  fair  values of  options
granted  during the years ended  December 31, 2004,  2003, and 2002 were $14.47,
$20.56 and $17.75, respectively. The weighted-average remaining contractual life
at December 31, 2004,  for all  outstanding  options under the  Company's  stock
option  plans  is  7.2  years.  The  weighted-average  exercise  price  for  all
outstanding  options under the Company's  stock option plans was $29.88,  $26.11
and $22.78 at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     The  Black-Scholes   option  valuation  model  was  developed  for  use  in
estimating the fair value of traded options,  which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully  transferable.  In addition,  option  valuation models require the
input of highly  subjective  assumptions,  including  the  expected  stock price
volatility.   Because  the   Company's   stock   options  have   characteristics
significantly  different from those of traded options and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially  affect the fair value estimate,  in
management's opinion, the existing model does not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.

                                       63

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 9-INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

     The following  table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted income
per common share:

<table>
<caption>
                                                             Years ended December 31,
                                                        2004        2003        2002
                                                     ---------------------------------
                                                    (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                  <C>         <C>         <C>
Numerator (basic and diluted):
  Net income.......................................  $ 139,566   $ 100,087   $  81,992
                                                     =================================
Denominator:
  Denominator for basic income per common share-
    weighted-average shares........................     55,010      53,908      53,114
  Effect of stock options (Note 8).................        701         622         578
                                                     ---------------------------------
  Denominator for diluted income per common share-
    adjusted weighted-average shares and
    assumed conversion.............................     55,711      54,530      53,692
                                                     =================================
Basic net income per common share..................  $    2.54   $    1.86   $    1.54
                                                     =================================
Net income per common share-assuming dilution......  $    2.51   $    1.84   $    1.53
                                                     =================================
</table>
                                       64
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 10-INCOME TAXES

     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary  differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of
the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows at December 31:

<table>
<caption>
                                           2004            2003
                                        -----------------------
                                               (In thousands)
<S>                                     <C>         <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Current:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts...  $    1,292   $      373
    Other accruals....................      10,038        6,973
  Noncurrent:
    Other accruals....................       1,980            -
                                        -----------------------
    Total deferred tax assets.........      13,310        7,346
                                        -----------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Current:
    Inventory carrying value..........      18,528        2,593

  Noncurrent:
    Property and equipment............      39,203       29,171
    Other.............................       1,217          277
                                        -----------------------
    Total deferred tax liabilities....      58,948       32,041
                                        -----------------------
    Net deferred tax liabilities .....  $  (45,638)  $  (24,695)
                                        =======================
</table>
                                       65

<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 10-INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:
<table>
<caption>
                            Current     Deferred     Total
                           ---------------------------------
                                      (In thousands)
<S>                        <C>         <C>         <C>
2004:
     Federal..........     $  56,385   $   6,942   $  63,327
     State............         6,038         698       6,736
                           ---------------------------------
                           $  62,423   $   7,640   $  70,063
                           =================================
2003:
     Federal..........     $  41,465   $  12,362   $  53,827
     State............         4,694       1,434       6,128
                           ---------------------------------
                           $  46,159   $  13,796   $  59,955
                           =================================
2002:
     Federal..........     $  39,038   $   5,113   $  44,151
     State............         4,286         553       4,839
                           ---------------------------------
                           $  43,324   $   5,666   $  48,990
                           =================================

</table>

     A reconciliation  of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed
at the federal statutory rate is as follows:

<table>
<caption>

                                                     2004       2003         2002
                                                  ---------------------------------
                                                          (In thousands)
<S>                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
Federal income taxes at statutory rate..........  $  65,708   $  56,015   $  45,844
State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit..      4,355       3,935       3,140
Other items, net................................          -           5           6
                                                  ---------------------------------
                                                  $  70,063   $  59,955   $  48,990
</table>

     The tax benefit associated with the exercise of non-qualified stock options
has  been  reflected  as  additional   paid-in   capital  in  the   accompanying
consolidated financial statements.

     During the years ended December 31, 2004,  2003, and 2002, cash paid by the
Company for income taxes amounted to $55,140,000,  $43,007,000 and  $31,119,000,
respectively.

                                       66

<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

             Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of  Directors  and  Shareholders  of  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  and
Subsidiaries

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  as of December  31, 2004 and 2003,  and the
related consolidated statements of income,  shareholders' equity, and cash flows
for each of the  three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  2004.  These
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all  material  respects,   the  consolidated   financial  position  of  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  at  December  31,  2004 and 2003,  and the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period  ended  December  31, 2004,  in  conformity  with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 2 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  in 2004 the
Company changed its method of accounting for inventory.

We also have  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United  States),  the  effectiveness  of O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as
of   December   31,   2004,   based  on   criteria   established   in   Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the  Treadway  Commission  and our report  dated March 7, 2005  expressed  an
unqualified opinion thereon.


                                                /s/ Ernst & Young LLP



Kansas City, Missouri
March 7, 2005

                                       67

<page>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Shareholder Information

CORPORATE ADDRESS

233 South Patterson
Springfield, Missouri 65802
417/862-3333
Web site - www.oreillyauto.com

REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT

UMB Bank
928 Grand Boulevard
Kansas City, Missouri 64141-0064

Inquiries regarding stock transfers, lost certificates or address changes should
be directed to UMB Bank at the above address.

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Ernst & Young LLP
One Kansas City Place
Kansas City, Missouri 64105-2143

LEGAL COUNSEL

Gallop Johnson & Neuman, L.C.
101 South Hanley Road, Suite 1600
St. Louis, Missouri 63105

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100
Chicago, Illinois 60606

ANNUAL MEETING

The annual meeting of shareholders of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. will be held at
10:00 a.m. local time on May 3, 2005, at the Clarion  Hotel,  Ballrooms 1 and 2,
3333 South Glenstone Ave in Springfield,  Missouri. Shareholders of record as of
February 25, 2005, will be entitled to vote at this meeting.

FORM 10-K REPORT

The Form 10-K Report of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  and our quarterly  press  releases are  available  without
charge to shareholders  upon written request.  These requests and other investor
contacts  should be directed to James R.  Batten,  Executive  Vice  President of
Finance/Chief Financial Officer, at the corporate address.

TRADING SYMBOL

The  Company's  common  stock is traded on The  Nasdaq  Stock  Market  (National
Market) under the symbol ORLY.

                                       68
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)


NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS

As of February 25, 2005,  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. had  approximately  29,282
shareholders  based on the number of holders  of record and an  estimate  of the
number of individual participants represented by security position listings.

ANALYST COVERAGE

The following analysts provide research coverage of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.:

AG Edwards & Sons - Brian Postol
Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co, Inc. - Reed Anderson
Lehman Brothers Equities Research - Alan Rifkin
Monarch Research LLC - Cid Wilson
Piper Jaffray - Michael Cox
Prudential Equity Group, LLC - John Tomlinson
Raymond James & Associates - Gerald Marks
RBC Capital Markets - Scot Ciccarelli
Robert W. Baird & Co - David Cumberland
SG Cowen Securities - Joseph Feldman
Smith Barney - Bill Sims
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Capital Markets - Frank Brown
UBS Equities - Gary Balter
William Blair & Company - Sharon Zackfia

MARKET PRICES AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION

The  prices  in the  table  below  represent  the high and low  sales  price for
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market.

The common stock began  trading on April 22, 1993. No cash  dividends  have been
declared  since  1992,  and the  Company  does not  anticipate  paying  any cash
dividends in the foreseeable future.

<table>
                           2004                  2003
------------------------------------------------------------
                      High       Low        High       Low
------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>
First Quarter       $ 41.69   $ 36.46    $  27.86   $  22.91
Second Quarter        47.07     39.18       35.39      26.76
Third Quarter         45.35     36.06       39.96      33.23
Fourth Quarter        45.64     37.00       44.90      36.54
For the Year          47.07     36.06       44.90      22.91
</table>
                                       69
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                     Exhibit 18.0 - Independent Registered
           Public Accounting Firm Letter REgarding Accounting Change

Mr. James R. Batten
Chief Financial Officer
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
233 South Patterson
Springfield, MO 65802

Dear Sir:

Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
Subsidiaries included in its Form 10-K as of and for the year ended December 31,
2004  describes a change in the method of accounting for inventory to capitalize
into inventory certain  procurement,  warehousing and distribution  costs, which
were previously  expensed as incurred.  There are no authoritative  criteria for
determining  a  preferable  inventory  costing  method  based on the  particular
circumstances; however, we conclude that such change in the method of accounting
is to an acceptable alternative method which, based on your business judgment to
make  this  change  and  for  the  stated   reasons,   is   preferable  in  your
circumstances.

                                Very truly yours,

                                /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

March 7, 2005
Kansas City, Missouri

                                       70
<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Exhibit 21.1 - Subsidiaries of the Company

                    Subsidiary                  State of Incorporation
          Ozark Automotive Distributors, Inc.                Missouri
          Greene County Realty Co.                           Missouri
          O'Reilly II Aviation, Inc.                         Missouri
          Ozark Services, Inc.                               Missouri
          Hi-LO Investment Company                           Delaware
          Hi-LO Management Company                           Delaware


One  hundred  percent  of  the  capital  stock  of  each  of  the  above  listed
subsidiaries directly owned by O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.

                                       71


<page>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit  23.1 - Consent  of Ernst & Young  LLP,  Independent  Registered  Public
Accounting Firm

            Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  of our reports  dated March 7,
2005,  with  respect  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries,  O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries
management's  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries,  included in the 2004 Annual Report
to Shareholders of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries.

Our  audits  also  included  the  financial   statement   schedule  of  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  listed in Item 15(a).  This schedule is the
responsibility of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries'  management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, the
financial  statement  schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to
the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 No.  333-59568,  Form S-8 No.  333-63467 and Form S-8 No.  333-111976)
pertaining to the O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. 2003 Employee Stock Option Plan, the
O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  2003  Director  Stock  Option  Plan,  the  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan,  the O'Reilly  Automotive  Inc.  Stock
Purchase Plan, the O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Profit Sharing and Savings Plan and
the  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  1993  Employee  Stock  Option Plan of O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  of our reports  dated March 7, 2005,  with
respect to the consolidated  financial statements of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.
and  Subsidiaries,  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  management's
assessment of the  effectiveness of internal  control over financial  reporting,
and the  effectiveness of internal control over financial  reporting of O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries,  incorporated  herein by reference,  and our
report  included  in the  preceding  paragraph  with  respect  to the  financial
statement  schedule  included  in this  Annual  Report  (Form  10-K) of O'Reilly
Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2004.



                                        /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
March 11, 2005

                                       72
<page>

                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        Exhibit 31.1 - CEO Certification

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Greg Henslee, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of O'Reilly  Automotive,
     Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material  fact or omit to state a  material  fact  necessary  to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances  under which such statements
     were made,  not  misleading  with  respect  to the  period  covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in  this  report,  fairly  present  in all  material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the  registrant  as of, and for, the periods  presented  in this report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))  and internal  control over
     financial  reporting  (as  defined  in  Exchange  Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and
     14d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

     (a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or caused such
          disclosure   controls  and   procedures  to  be  designed   under  our
          supervision,  to ensure  that  material  information  relating  to the
          registrant,  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities,  particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared;

     (b)  Designed such internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or caused
          such internal  control over  financial  reporting to be designed under
          our  supervision,   to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the
          reliability  of financial  reporting and the  preparation of financial
          statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
          accounting principles;

     (c)  Evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     (d)  Disclosed  in this  report  any  change in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in
          the case of an annual  report)  that has  materially  affected,  or is
          reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's  other certifying  officer and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's  auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of
     directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     a)   All significant  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation  of internal  control  over  financial  reporting  which are
          reasonably  likely to  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     b)   Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting.

Date:  March 15, 2005           /s/ Greg Henslee
                                ------------------------------------------------
                                Greg Henslee, Chief Executive Officer (Principal
                                Executive Officer) and Co-President

                                       73

<page>
                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        Exhibit 31.2 - CFO Certification

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, James R. Batten, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of O'Reilly  Automotive,
     Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material  fact or omit to state a  material  fact  necessary  to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances  under which such statements
     were made,  not  misleading  with  respect  to the  period  covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in  this  report,  fairly  present  in all  material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the  registrant  as of, and for, the periods  presented  in this  quarterly
     report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))  and internal  control over
     financial  reporting  (as  defined  in  Exchange  Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and
     14d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

     (a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or caused such
          disclosure   controls  and   procedures  to  be  designed   under  our
          supervision,  to ensure  that  material  information  relating  to the
          registrant,  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities,  particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared;

     (b)  Designed such internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or caused
          such internal  control over  financial  reporting to be designed under
          our  supervision,   to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the
          reliability  of financial  reporting and the  preparation of financial
          statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
          accounting principles;

     (c)  Evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     (d)  Disclosed  in this  report  any  change in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in
          the case of an annual  report)  that has  materially  affected,  or is
          reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's  other certifying  officer and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's  auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of
     directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     a)   All significant  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation  of internal  control  over  financial  reporting  which are
          reasonably  likely to  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     b)   Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting.

Date:  March 15, 2005       /s/ James R. Batten
                            ----------------------------------------------------
                            James R. Batten, Executive Vice President of Finance
                            and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and
                            Accounting Officer)
                                       74

<page>
                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        Exhibit 32.1 - CEO Certification

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002


In  connection  with  the  Annual  Report  of  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period  ending  December 31, 2004, as filed with
the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the date hereof (the  "Report"),  I,
Greg Henslee,  Chief Executive Officer of the Company,  certify,  pursuant to 18
U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted  pursuant to Section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that:

(1)  The Report fully complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or 15(d)
     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2)  The information  contained in the Report fairly  presents,  in all material
     respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.


/s/ Greg Henslee
----------------------------------------
Greg Henslee
Chief Executive Officer

March 15, 2005

                                       74


This  certification  is made solely for purposes of 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, and
not for any other purpose.
<page>
                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        Exhibit 32.2 - CFO Certification

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002


In  connection  with  the  Annual  Report  of  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period  ending  December 31, 2004, as filed with
the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the date hereof (the  "Report"),  I,
James R. Batten, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted  pursuant to Section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that:

(1)  The Report fully complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or 15(d)
     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2)  The information  contained in the Report fairly  presents,  in all material
     respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.




/s/ James R. Batten
----------------------------------------
James R. Batten
Chief Financial Officer

March 15, 2005



This  certification  is made solely for purposes of 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, and
not for any other purpose.

                                       76
<page>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
