<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>oreilly10k2002.txt
<DESCRIPTION>O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. 2002 10-K
<TEXT>


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

                                       OR

( )  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

            For the transition period from ___________ to ___________

                         Commission file number 0-21318

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Missouri                                       44-0618012
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 (State or other jurisdiction                (IRS Employer Identification No.)
      of incorporation or
         organization)

                               233 South Patterson
                           Springfield, Missouri 65802
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices, zip code)

                                 (417) 862-6708
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X    No _____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained here, and will not be contained,  to the best
of the registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  ]

Indicate by a check mark  whether the  registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act.)  Yes X    No _____


At June 28, 2002, an aggregate of  53,139,484  shares of the common stock of the
registrant was  outstanding.  As of that date, the aggregate market value of the
voting  stock  held  by   non-affiliates   of  the  Company  was   approximately
$1,547,204,179  based on the last sale price of the common stock reported by the
Nasdaq  Stock Market  (Nation  Market).  At February  28, 2003,  an aggregate of
53,368,259  shares of the common stock of the registrant was outstanding.  As of
that date, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the Company was approximately  $1,362,491,650 based on the last sale price of
the common stock reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market (National Market).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

As provided below,  portions of the registrant's  documents  specified below are
incorporated here by reference:

      Document                                                  Part-Form 10-K
--------------------                                           -----------------

Portions of the Annual Shareholders' Report for the Year
Ended December 31, 2002                                         Part II

Proxy Statement for 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (to
be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days of the
end of registrant's most recently completed fiscal year)        Parts I and III


<PAGE>
Forward Looking Information

The  information  contained  in this Form  10-K  includes  statements  regarding
matters  which are not  historical  facts  (including  statements as to O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.'s plans,  beliefs or expectations)  which are  forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the federal  securities laws within the meaning
of the Private Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These  forward-looking
statements are based on estimates,  projections, beliefs and assumptions and are
not  guarantees of future  events and results.  Such  statements  are subject to
risks,   uncertainties   and  assumptions,   including,   but  not  limited  to,
competition,  product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in general,
inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to hire and
retain  qualified  employees,  risks associated with the integration of acquired
businesses,  weather,  terrorist  activities,  war and the threat of war. Actual
results  may  materially  differ from  anticipated  results  described  in these
forward-looking  statements.  Because such  forward-looking  statements  involve
certain risks and  uncertainties,  our actual  results and the timing of certain
events could differ  materially from those  discussed in this document.  Factors
that could cause or contribute to such  differences  include those  discussed in
the Sections captioned  "Business" and "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations"  (incorporated here by reference)
and the "Risk Factors" discussed below.

Unless otherwise  indicated,  "we",  "us",  "our", and similar terms, as well as
references to the "Company" and "O'Reilly"  refer to O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.
and its subsidiaries.

                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business
-----------------

     O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. is one of the largest  specialty  retailers  of
automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies,  equipment and accessories in the
United States, selling our products to both do-it-yourself ("DIY") customers and
professional  installers.  At  December  31,  2002,  we  operated  981 stores in
Alabama, Arkansas,  Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi,  Nebraska, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee
and Texas.  Eighteen,  net additional stores were acquired in December 2002, and
will be included in 2003 as new stores.  Our stores carry an  extensive  product
line consisting of:

o    new  and  remanufactured   automotive  hard  parts,  such  as  alternators,
     starters,  fuel pumps, water pumps, brake shoes and pads, chassis parts and
     engine parts;

o    maintenance items, such as oil,  antifreeze,  fluids,  engine additives and
     appearance products;

o    accessories, such as floor mats and seat covers; and

o    a complete line of autobody paint and related  materials,  automotive tools
     and professional service equipment.

     We do not sell tires or perform automotive repairs or installations.

     We were  founded  in 1957 by Charles F.  O'Reilly  and his son,  Charles H.
"Chub" O'Reilly,  Sr. and initially operated from a single store in Springfield,
Missouri. The O'Reilly family has managed the Company since our inception.

     Our goal is to continue  to achieve  growth in sales and  profitability  by
capitalizing  on  our  competitive  advantages  and  executing  our  growth  and
expansion strategies.

     See "Risk Factors"  beginning on page 11 for a description of certain risks
relevant to our  business.  These risk  factors  include,  among  others,  risks
related  to  competition  in the  automotive  aftermarket  business,  our growth
strategy,  our acquisition  strategy,  our sensitivity to regional  economic and
weather  conditions,  our  dependence  upon  key  and  other  personnel  and the
significant voting control held by our principal shareholders.

                                       2
<PAGE>

Competitive Advantages

     Proven  Ability to Execute  Dual Market  Strategy.  We have an  established
track record of serving  both DIY  customers  and  professional  installers.  We
believe  our  ability  to  execute  a  dual  market  strategy  is a  competitive
advantage, which enables us to:

o    target a larger base of consumers of automotive aftermarket parts;

o    capitalize on our existing retail and distribution infrastructure;

o    profitably  operate  both in  large  markets  and  less  densely  populated
     geographic areas which typically attract fewer competitors; and

o    enhance  service  levels  offered to our DIY  customers by offering a broad
     selection of stock keeping units ("SKUs") and extensive  product  knowledge
     required by professional installers.

     We have been  committed to a dual market  strategy  for over 20 years.  For
2002, we derived  approximately  54% of our product sales from our DIY customers
and approximately 46% from our professional installer customers.  As a result of
our  historical  success in executing our dual market  strategy and our over 135
full-time sales representatives  dedicated solely to calling upon and selling to
the  professional   installer,   we  believe  we  will  increase  the  sales  to
professional  installers  and  have a  competitive  advantage  over  our  retail
competitors   who  have  only  recently   entered  and  begun  focusing  on  the
professional installer market.

     Superior  Customer  Service.  We seek to attract  new DIY and  professional
installer  customers  and to retain  existing  customers  by  offering  superior
customer service, the key elements of which include:

o    superior in-store service through highly-motivated,  technically proficient
     store personnel  ("Professional Parts People") using advanced point-of-sale
     systems;

o    an extensive selection of products;

o    attractive stores in convenient locations; and

o    competitive pricing, with a low price guarantee.

     Technically  Proficient  Professional  Parts People.  Our highly proficient
Professional Parts People provide us with a significant  competitive  advantage,
particularly over less specialized retail operators. We require our Professional
Parts People to undergo  extensive  and ongoing  training and to be  technically
knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts, in order to better serve
the  technically-oriented  professional  installers with whom they interact on a
daily basis.  Such technical  proficiency  also enhances the customer service we
provide to our DIY customers,  who appreciate the expert assistance  provided by
our Professional Parts People.

     Strategic   Distribution   Systems.   We   believe   that  the   geographic
concentration  of our store network in seventeen,  contiguous  states  (Alabama,
Arkansas,   Florida,  Georgia,   Illinois,   Indiana,  Iowa,  Kansas,  Kentucky,
Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi,  Nebraska, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee
and Texas) and the strategic  locations of our nine distribution  centers enable
us to  maintain  optimum  inventory  levels  throughout  our store  network.  In
addition,  our inventory management and distribution systems electronically link
each of our stores to a distribution  center,  providing for efficient inventory
control and management. Our distribution system provides each of our stores with
same day or overnight  access to  approximately  100,000 SKUs, many of which are
hard to find items not typically  stocked by other parts  retailers.  We believe
the availability of a broad range of products is a key competitive  advantage in
satisfying customer demand and generating repeat business.

     Experienced Management Team. Our management team has a demonstrated ability
to  successfully  execute our business plan,  including the  identification  and
integration of strategic acquisitions. We have experienced ten consecutive years
of record revenues and earnings growth.  We have a strong senior management team
comprised of 49 professionals  who average 17 years of experience with O'Reilly.
In addition,  our 93 district  managers  average over 9 years of experience with
us.

                                       3
<PAGE>

Growth and Expansion Strategies

     Aggressively  Open New Stores.  We intend to continue to aggressively  open
new stores in order to achieve  greater  penetration in existing  markets and to
expand into new, contiguous markets. We plan to open approximately 130 stores in
2003 and  approximately  145  stores in 2004.  A  majority  of the sites for our
proposed  2003 store  openings  and several of the sites for our  proposed  2004
store openings have been identified.  In selecting sites for new stores, we seek
to strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order
to achieve  economies  of scale in areas  such as  management,  advertising  and
distribution.

     Until 1986, our expansion was targeted to markets with  populations of less
than  100,000.  We entered into a more densely  populated  market in August 1986
with the opening of the first of 29 stores in the greater Kansas City, Missouri,
market area.  Of the 106 net new stores added in 2002, 2 are located in Alabama,
3 in Arkansas,  3 in Georgia,  7 in Illinois,  2 in Kansas, 4 in Kentucky,  7 in
Louisiana, 10 in Mississippi,  7 in Missouri, 20 in Tennessee,  and 41 in Texas.
While we have faced, and expect to continue to face, more aggressive competition
in the  more  densely  populated  markets,  we  believe  that we  have  competed
effectively, and that we are well positioned to continue to compete effectively,
in such markets and achieve our goal of continued sales and profit growth within
these markets. We also believe that because of our dual market strategy,  we are
better  able to  operate  stores in less  densely  populated  areas  within  our
regional  market which would not otherwise  support a national or regional chain
store selling to one portion of the market or the other. Consequently, we expect
to continue to open new stores in less densely populated market areas.

     To date,  we have  experienced  no  significant  difficulties  in  locating
suitable  store sites for  construction  of new stores or  identifying  suitable
acquisition  candidates for conversion to O'Reilly stores. We typically open new
stores  either (i) by  constructing  a new store at a site which is purchased or
leased  and  stocking  the new store with  fixtures  and  inventory,  or (ii) by
acquiring  an  independently  owned parts  store,  typically  by the purchase of
substantially  all of the inventory and other assets (other than realty) of such
store.  Store  sites are  strategically  located in clusters  within  geographic
areas, which complement our distribution system in order to achieve economies of
scale in management,  advertising,  and distribution costs. Other key factors we
consider in the site selection  process  include  population  density and growth
patterns, age and per capita income, vehicle traffic counts, the number and type
of  existing  automotive  repair  facilities,   auto  parts  stores,  and  other
competitors within a pre-determined radius, and the operational strength of such
competitors.  When entering new, more densely  populated  markets,  we generally
seek to initially  open several  stores  within a short span of time in order to
maximize  the  effect  of  initial  promotional  programs  and  achieve  further
economies of scale.

     Same store growth  through  increased  sales and  profitability  is also an
important  part  of  our  growth   strategy.   To  achieve  improved  sales  and
profitability at existing O'Reilly stores, we continually strive to improve upon
the service provided to our customers. We believe that while competitive pricing
is  essential  in the  competitive  environment  of the  automotive  aftermarket
business,   it  is  customer  satisfaction  (whether  of  the  DIY  consumer  or
professional installer), resulting from superior customer service that generates
increased sales and profitability.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     Selectively   Pursue  Strategic   Acquisitions.   Although  the  automotive
aftermarket  industry  is still  highly  fragmented,  we believe  the ability of
national and regional specialty retail chains, such as O'Reilly, to operate more
efficiently than smaller independent operators or mass merchandisers will result
in continued  industry  consolidation.  Thus,  we intend to  selectively  pursue
acquisition  targets that will  strengthen our position as a leading  automotive
products retailer.

     Continually Enhance Store Design and Location.  Our current prototype store
design features  enhancements  such as greater square footage,  higher ceilings,
more convenient  interior store layouts,  brighter  lighting,  increased parking
availability  and  dedicated  counters to serve  professional  installers,  each
designed  to  increase  product  sales and  operating  efficiencies  and enhance
customer service.  We continually update the location and condition of our store
network through  systematic  renovation and relocation of our existing stores to
conform  with our  prototype  store  design.  We  believe  that our  ability  to
consistently  achieve  growth in same store  product sales is due in part to our
commitment to maintaining an attractive  store network,  which is  strategically
located to best serve our customers.

Products and Purchasing

     Our stores offer DIY and professional  installer customers a wide selection
of brand name and private label products for domestic and imported  automobiles,
vans  and  trucks.  We do not  sell  tires  or  perform  automotive  repairs  or
installations.  Our  merchandise  generally  consists of nationally  recognized,
well-advertised,  name brand products such as AC Delco,  Moog,  Murray,  Wagner,
Gates Rubber, Federal Mogul, Monroe, Prestone, Quaker State, Pennzoil,  Castrol,
Valvoline, STP, BWD, Cardone, Wix, Armor All and Turtle Wax. In addition to name
brand products,  our stores carry a wide variety of  high-quality  private label
products  under our  O'Reilly  Auto  Parts,  SuperStart,  BrakeBest,  Ultima and
Omnispark  proprietary  name brands.  Because most of our private label products
are produced by  nationally  recognized  manufacturers  in  accordance  with our
specifications,  we believe that the private  label  products  are  generally of
equal or, in some cases,  better quality than comparable name brand products,  a
characteristic which is important to our professional  installer  clientele.  We
further  believe that the private label  products are packaged  attractively  to
promote  customer  interest and are generally priced below comparable name brand
products carried in our stores.

     We purchase  automotive  products from approximately 400 vendors,  the five
largest of which accounted for approximately 25% of our total purchases in 2002.
Our largest vendor in 2002 accounted for approximately 7% of our total purchases
and the next four largest vendors  accounted for 4-5% of such purchases each. We
have no long-term  contractual purchase commitments with any of our vendors, nor
have we experienced difficulty in obtaining satisfactory  alternative sources of
supply for automotive parts. We believe that alternative supply sources exist at
substantially  similar costs, for substantially all automotive  products that we
sell.  It is our  policy  to  take  advantage  of  early  payment  and  seasonal
purchasing  discounts  offered by our vendors,  and to utilize  extended  dating
terms  available  from  vendors  due  to  volume  purchasing.  We  consider  our
relationships with our suppliers to be good.

                                       5
<PAGE>

Inflation and Seasonality

     We have  been  successful,  in many  cases,  in  reducing  the  effects  of
merchandise  cost increases  principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive
programs,  economies of scale  resulting from increased  volume of purchases and
selective  forward  buying.  As a result,  we do not believe our operations have
been materially affected by inflation.

     Our business is seasonal to some extent primarily as a result of the impact
of weather  conditions on store sales. Store sales and profits have historically
been higher in the second and third quarters  (April through  September) of each
year than in the first and fourth quarters.

Store Network

     Store Locations.  As a result of our dual market  strategy,  we are able to
profitably  operate in both large,  densely  populated  markets and less densely
populated  areas which would not otherwise  support a national or regional chain
selling to just one portion of the automotive  aftermarket.  The following table
sets forth the geographic distribution of our stores:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                 State                  Number of Stores
                -------                ------------------
               <S>                            <C>
               Texas                          363
               Missouri                       130
               Oklahoma                        99
               Arkansas                        67
               Iowa                            63
               Kansas                          55
               Tennessee                       61
               Louisiana                       47
               Nebraska                        24
               Alabama                         18
               Kentucky                        11
               Mississippi                     16
               Georgia                          8
               Indiana                          5
               Florida                          4
               Illinois                        10
                                             -----
                     Total                    981
                                             =====
</TABLE>

     Our  stores  on  average  carry  approximately   22,000  SKUs  and  average
approximately  6,700 total square feet in size.  At December 31, 2002,  we had a
total of approximately 6.6 million square feet in our 981 stores. Our stores are
served primarily by the nearest distribution center, but also have access to the
broader  selection  of  inventory  available  at one of our 46 Master  Inventory
Stores,   which  on  average  carry   approximately   38,000  SKUs  and  average
approximately 9,400 square feet in size. Master Inventory Stores, in addition to
serving DIY and professional  installer customers in their markets, also provide
our other stores  within  their area access to a greater  selection of SKUs on a
same day basis.

                                       6
<PAGE>

     We believe that our stores are  "destination  stores"  generating their own
traffic  rather than relying on traffic  created by the presence of other stores
in the immediate  vicinity.  Consequently,  most of our stores are  freestanding
buildings  situated  on or near major  traffic  thoroughfares,  and offer  ample
parking and easy customer access.

     Store Layout. We utilize a computer-assisted  "plan-o-grammed" store layout
system to provide a uniform and consistent  merchandise  presentation;  however,
some variation occurs in order to meet the specific needs of a particular market
area.  Merchandise  is  arranged  to provide  easy  customer  access and maximum
selling space, keeping high-turnover products and accessories within view of the
customer.  Aisle displays are generally used to feature  high-demand or seasonal
merchandise, new items and advertised specials.

     Store  Automation.  To enhance store level operations and customer service,
we use IBM AS/400  computer  systems in all of our  stores.  These  systems  are
linked  with  the IBM  AS/400  computers  located  in  each of our  distribution
centers. Our point-of-sale  terminals provide immediate access to our electronic
catalog to display  parts and  pricing  information  by make,  model and year of
vehicle and use bar code  scanning  technology  to price our  merchandise.  This
system speeds  transaction  times,  reduces register lines and provides enhanced
customer  service.   Moreover,   our  store  automation  systems  capture  sales
information which assists in store  management,  strategic  planning,  inventory
control and distribution efficiency.

     New Store Site  Selection.  In selecting  sites for new stores,  we seek to
strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to
achieve economies of scale in management,  advertising and  distribution.  Other
key factors we consider in the site selection process include:

o    population density and growth patterns;

o    age and per capita income;

o    vehicle traffic counts;

o    the number and type of existing automotive repair facilities; and

o    the  number  of  auto  parts   stores  and  other   competitors   within  a
     pre-determined radius and the operational strength of such competitors.

     When entering new, more densely  populated  markets,  we generally  seek to
initially  open several  stores within a short span of time in order to maximize
the effect of initial  promotional  programs  and achieve  further  economies of
scale.  After  opening  this  initial  cluster of new  stores,  we seek to begin
penetrating the less densely populated  surrounding areas. This strategy enables
us to achieve  additional  distribution  and  advertising  efficiencies  in each
market.

                                       7
<PAGE>

Distribution System

     The  following  table sets  forth the  distribution  centers  we  currently
operate:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            Square Footage
                        ------------------------------------------------        Number of
  Location              Distribution Center (1)      Office       Total       Stores Served
------------------      -----------------------     --------     -------     ---------------
<S>                           <C>                   <C>          <C>              <C>
Houston, TX                   449,825                21,280      471,105          229
Oklahoma City, OK             296,600                 5,940      302,540          158
Dallas, TX                    442,376                21,889      464,265          163
Springfield, MO               310,666               108,690 (2)  419,359          113
Des Moines, IA                178,391                 8,325      186,716           90
Kansas City, MO               128,064                 2,590      130,654           72
Nashville, TN                 346,604                35,000      381,604           92
Little Rock, AR                89,852                 7,200       97,052           40
Knoxville, TN                 153,664                 9,725      163,389           24
                           ----------              --------    ---------         ----
                            2,396,042               220,639    2,616,682          981
<FN>
(1)  Includes both floor and mezzanine square footage.

(2)  Includes  square  footage  for  corporate  offices,  technical  center  and
     training center.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     In addition, adjacent to the Springfield,  Missouri distribution center, we
operate  a  36,000  square  foot  bulk   merchandise   warehouse  used  for  the
distribution  of  bulk  products  such  as  motor  oil,  antifreeze,  batteries,
lubricants  and other fast  moving  bulk  products,  and an 20,000  square  foot
returned goods  processing  facility.  We also operate a 31,000 square foot bulk
warehouse in McAllen,  Texas that serves the  surrounding  distribution  centers
with bulk motor oil. A tenth distribution center,  located in Saraland,  Alabama
near  Mobile,  Alabama  with  approximately  301,000  square feet to be used for
distribution  and  approximately  13,000 square feet to be used for offices,  is
under construction and is expected to open June 2003.

     Our  distribution  centers  are  equipped  with highly  automated  conveyor
systems,  which  expedite  the  movement of our  products  to loading  areas for
shipment to  individual  stores on a nightly  basis.  The  distribution  centers
utilize  computer-assisted  technology  to  electronically  receive  orders from
computers  located in each of our  stores.  In  addition  to the bar code system
employed in our stores, we have established a  satellite-based  data interchange
system among those stores in which  high-speed data  transmission  technology is
not readily available,  the distribution  center, which services such stores and
our corporate headquarters.

     We  believe  that  our  distribution  system  assists  us in  lowering  our
inventory-carrying   costs,   improving  our  store  in-stock   positions,   and
controlling and managing our inventory.  Moreover, we believe that our expanding
network of distribution  centers allows us to more efficiently  service existing
stores,  as well as new stores  planned for opening in contiguous  market areas.
Our  distribution  center  expansion  strategy  also  complements  our new store
opening strategy by supporting newly  established  clusters of stores located in
the regions  surrounding  each  distribution  center.  As part of our continuing
efforts to enhance our distribution network, in 2003 we plan to:

o    open a distribution center in the  Saraland/Mobile,  Alabama area providing
     opportunity for continued expansion in the southeast United States; and

o    continue to implement  improvement plans to increase  inventory turnover in
     all distribution centers; and

o    upgrade  material  handling  equipment  in  several   distribution  centers
     including conveyor systems, forklifts and racking.

                                       8
<PAGE>

Marketing

     Marketing  to the  DIY  Customer.  We  aggressively  promote  sales  to DIY
customers through an extensive  advertising program,  which includes direct mail
and newspaper,  radio and television advertising in selected markets. We believe
that our  advertising  and  promotional  activities have resulted in significant
name recognition in each of our market areas. Newspaper and radio advertisements
are generally directed towards specific product and price promotions, frequently
in connection with specific sale events and promotions.  To promote sales to car
enthusiasts,  who we believe on an  individual  basis  spend more on  automotive
products than the public generally, we sponsor 16 nationally televised races and
over 200  motorsports  races and car shows at over 150  racetracks in 17 states,
including  the  O'Reilly  Chili Bowl,  the World of Outlaws  Series,  the NASCAR
Craftsmen Truck Series, as well as four National Hotrod Racing Association races
in Topeka,  Memphis,  Houston and Dallas.  O'Reilly  Auto Parts is the "official
auto parts  store" of Texas  Motor  Speedway,  Kansas  Speedway,  Bristol  Motor
Speedway,  Houston Raceway Park, Texas Motorplex,  Memphis  Motorsports Park and
Heartland  Park.  We have found  that the more  progressive  marketing  concepts
utilized  in the DIY  portion of our  business  can also be applied to  increase
sales to our professional installer customers.

     Marketing  to the  Professional  Installer.  We  have  over  135  full-time
O'Reilly  sales  representatives  strategically  located  in  the  more  densely
populated  market areas that we serve,  and each is dedicated  solely to calling
upon and selling to the professional installer. Our First Call program, which is
our commitment to the professional  customer,  includes a dedicated sales force,
sales and  promotions  directed  to the  professional  installer  and  overnight
delivery  service from the  distribution  center to the  professional  customer.
Moreover,  each district manager and store manager  throughout our store network
calls upon  existing and  potential new  professional  installer  customers on a
regular basis. Our First Call marketing  strategy,  with respect to professional
installers, emphasizes our ability to offer:

o    prompt delivery using small trucks or vans operated by most of our stores;

o    a separate counter in most of our stores  dedicated  exclusively to serving
     professional installers;

o    trade credit for qualified professional installers;

o    broad inventory of merchandise and competitive pricing;

o    a  professional  installer  computer  system that connects  directly to our
     inventory system; and

o    seminars concerning topics of interest to professional installers,  such as
     technical updates, safety and general business management.

     Marketing to the Independently  Owned Parts Store. Along with the operation
of the distribution  centers and the distribution of automotive  products to the
O'Reilly  stores,  Ozark  Automotive  Distributors,  Inc.  ("Ozark")  also sells
automotive  products to independently owned parts stores whose retail stores are
generally  located in areas not serviced by an O'Reilly  store.  We generally do
not compete with any independently owned parts store to which we sell automotive
products,   but  have,  on  occasion,   acquired  the  business   assets  of  an
independently  owned  parts  store  supplied by Ozark.  Ozark  operates  its own
separate  marketing program to independently  owned parts stores through a staff
of three.

     Of  the  approximately  230  independently  owned  parts  stores  currently
purchasing  automotive  products from Ozark,  219  participate in the Auto Value
program through Ozark. As a participant in this program,  an independently owned
parts store which meets certain minimum  financial and operational  standards is
permitted to indicate its Auto Value membership  through the display of the Auto
Value logo, which is owned by The Alliance,  Inc.  (formerly known as Auto Value
Associates,  Inc.), a non-profit buying group consisting of approximately  4,500
members as of December 31, 2002, including O'Reilly, engaged in the distribution
or sale  of  automotive  products.  Additionally,  we  provide  advertising  and
promotional  assistance to Auto Value stores purchasing automotive products from
Ozark,  as well as marketing  and sales  support.  In return for a commitment to
purchase  automotive  products from Ozark, we offer  assistance to an Auto Value
independently  owned  parts  store by making  available  computer  software  for
inventory control.

                                       9
<PAGE>
Management Structure

     Each of our  stores  is  staffed  with a  store  manager  and an  assistant
manager, in addition to the parts specialists and support staff required to meet
the specific needs of each store.  Each of our 93 district  managers has general
supervisory  responsibility  for an average of 10.5 stores within such manager's
district.

     Each  district  manager  receives  comprehensive  training on a  bi-monthly
basis, focusing on management techniques,  new product  announcements,  advanced
automotive  systems and our policies and  procedures.  In turn, the  information
covered at such bi-monthly meetings is discussed in full by district managers at
bi-monthly  meetings  with their store  managers.  All  assistant  managers  and
manager  trainees  are  required to  successfully  complete a six-month  manager
training program, which includes classroom and field training, as a prerequisite
to becoming a store manager. This program covers operations extensively, as well
as principles of successful management.  Shortly after becoming a store manager,
all managers  attend a manager  development  program,  at the  corporate  office
headquarters,  which includes 72 hours of classroom training.  Upon returning to
the stores,  managers  are given  continuous  field  training  throughout  their
management experience.

     We provide financial  incentives to our district managers,  store managers,
assistant  managers  and sales  specialists  through an  incentive  compensation
program.  Under our incentive  compensation program, base salary is augmented by
incentive  compensation  based upon the  achievement of sales and  profitability
goals.  We  believe  that  our  incentive   compensation  program  significantly
increases the  motivation  and overall  performance  of our  Professional  Parts
People and our  ability to attract  and retain  qualified  management  and other
personnel.

     Most of our current senior management, district managers and store managers
were promoted to their positions from within the Company.  Our senior management
team averages 17 years of experience with the Company and district managers have
an average length of service with the Company of over 9 years.

Professional Parts People

     We  believe  our  highly  trained  team of  Professional  Parts  People  is
essential in providing  superior service both to DIY and professional  installer
customers.  Each of our Professional  Parts People is required to be technically
proficient in the workings and  application  of  automotive  products due to the
significant portion of our business  represented by the professional  installer.
In addition,  we have found that the typical DIY customer often seeks assistance
from sales persons,  particularly in connection with the purchase of hard parts.
We believe  that the ability of our  Professional  Parts  People to provide such
assistance  to  the  DIY  customer  creates  a  favorable  impression  during  a
customer's visit to our store and is a significant  factor in generating  repeat
DIY business.

     We  screen  prospective  employees,  whom we refer to as team  members,  to
identify highly motivated individuals either with experience in automotive parts
or repairs, or an aptitude for automotive  knowledge.  Each person who becomes a
team member first  participates  in an  intensive  two-day  orientation  program
designed to  introduce  the team member to our culture and his or her job duties
before being assigned specific job  responsibilities.  The successful completion
of additional training is required before a team member is deemed qualified as a
parts  specialist  and  thus  able to work at the  parts  counter  of one of our
stores. All new counter people are required to successfully complete a six-month
basic  automotive  systems  training course and are then enrolled in a six-month
advanced  automotive  systems course for certification by the National Institute
for Automotive Service Excellence ("ASE"),  which administers national exams for
various  automotive  specialties and requires ASE certified  specialists to take
recertification exams every five years.

                                       10
<PAGE>

     Each of our stores  participates in our sales specialist  training program.
Under this program,  selected team members  complete two days of extensive sales
call  training  for  business  development,  after which these team members will
spend  one day per week  calling  on  existing  and new  professional  installer
customers.  Additionally, each team member engaged in such sales activities will
participate  in  quarterly  advanced  training  programs  for sales and business
development.

Customer Service

     We seek to provide our customers  with an efficient  and pleasant  in-store
experience by maintaining  attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide
selection of automotive  products.  We believe that the  satisfaction of DIY and
professional installer customers is substantially  dependent upon our ability to
provide,  in a  timely  fashion,  the  specific  automotive  product  requested.
Accordingly,  each  O'Reilly  store  carries  a broad  selection  of  automotive
products  designed  to  cover  a  wide  range  of  vehicle  specifications.   We
continuously  refine the inventory levels carried in our stores,  based in large
part on the sales movement shown by our  computerized  inventory  control system
and on management's assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace.

Pricing

     We believe that a competitive  pricing  policy is essential  within product
categories  in order to  compete  successfully.  Product  pricing  is  generally
established  to meet the  pricing  policies  of  competitors  in the market area
served  by each  store.  Most  automotive  products  that we sell are  priced at
discounts to the  manufacturer  suggested  prices,  and  additional  savings are
offered through volume  discounts and special  promotional  pricing.  Consistent
with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price
on any in-stock product of the same or comparable  quality offered by any of our
competitors.

Competition

     We  compete  in both the DIY and  professional  installer  portions  of the
automotive aftermarket. We compete primarily with:

o    national and  regional  retail  automotive  parts chains (such as AutoZone,
     Inc.,  Advance Auto Parts,  CSK Auto Corp. and The Pep Boys-Manny,  Moe and
     Jack, Inc.);

o    independently owned parts stores;

o    wholesalers  or jobber stores (some of which are  associated  with national
     automotive parts distributors or associations such as NAPA and CarQuest);

o    automobile dealers; and

o    mass  merchandisers that carry automotive  replacement  parts,  maintenance
     items and accessories (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.).

     We compete on the basis of customer  service,  which  includes  merchandise
selection and  availability,  price,  helpfulness  of store  personnel and store
layout and location.

                                       11
<PAGE>

Team Members

     As of December 31,  2002,  we had 11,513  full-time  team members and 2,760
part-time team members,  of whom 10,849 were employed at our stores,  2,494 were
employed at our distribution  centers and 930 were employed at our corporate and
administrative  headquarters.  Our team  members are not subject to a collective
bargaining  agreement.  We consider  our  relations  with our team members to be
excellent,  and strive to promote good relations  with our team members  through
various programs designed for such purposes.

Servicemarks and Trademarks

     We have  registered the  servicemarks  O'Reilly  Automotive,  O'Reilly Auto
Parts,  and Parts Payoff and the trademarks  SuperStart,  BrakeBest,  Omnispark,
First  Call,  Ultima,  and  Master  Pro.  Further,  we are  licensed  to use the
registered  trademarks and servicemarks Auto Value and Parts Master owned by The
Alliance  (formerly  Auto Value  Associates)  in  connection  with our marketing
program.  We believe  that our  business  is not  otherwise  dependent  upon any
patent, trademark, servicemark or copyright.

Regulations

     Although subject to various laws and governmental  regulations  relating to
our business, including those related to the environment, we do not believe that
compliance with such laws and  regulations has a material  adverse effect on our
operations.  Further, we are unaware of any failure to comply with any such laws
and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  We
can not give any assurance, however, that we will not incur significant expenses
in the future in order to comply with any such law or regulation.

Internet Address and Access to SEC Filings

     Our Internet address is www.oreillyauto.com.  Interested readers can access
the  Company's  annual  reports  on Form 10-K,  quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q,
current  reports  on Form 8-K,  and any  amendments  to those  reports  filed or
furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, through the www.sec.gov.  Such reports are generally available
on the day they are filed.  Additionally,  the Company will  furnish  interested
readers upon request and free of charge, a paper copy of such reports.


Risk Factors

     Some of the  information  in this Form 10-K contains and future reports and
press  releases  and  other  public  information  may  contain   forward-looking
statements that involve  substantial risks and  uncertainties.  You can identify
these  statements  by  forward-looking  words such as "may,"  "will,"  "expect,"
"anticipate,"  "believe,"  "estimate,"  and "continue" or similar  words.  These
"forward-looking   statements"  are  made  in  reliance  upon  the  safe  harbor
provisions of the Private Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (See Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.) You should read statements that contain these words carefully  because
they: (1) discuss our future expectations; (2) contain projections of our future
results  of  operations  or of  our  financial  condition;  or (3)  state  other
"forward-looking"  information.  We believe it is important to  communicate  our
expectations to our investors.  However,  there may be events in the future that
we are not able to accurately predict or over which we have no control. The risk
factors listed in this section,  as well as any cautionary language in this Form
10-K, are subject to risks,  uncertainties and assumptions,  including,  but not
limited to, competition,  product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy
in general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability
to hire and retain qualified employees, risks associated with the integration of
acquired business,  weather,  terrorist  activities,  war and the threat of war.
Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described in these
forward-looking  statements.  You  should be aware  that the  occurrence  of the
events  described  in these risk  factors and  elsewhere in this Form 10-K could
have a material adverse effect on our business,  operating results and financial
condition.

                                       12
<PAGE>
The Automotive Aftermarket Business is Highly Competitive

     Both the DIY and professional installer portions of our business are highly
competitive,  particularly  in the more densely  populated  areas that we serve.
Some of our  competitors  are  larger  than we are and  have  greater  financial
resources.  In addition, some of our competitors are smaller than we are overall
but have a greater presence than we do in a particular market. For a list of our
principal  competitors,  see the  "Competition"  section  of Item 1 of this Form
10-K.

We Cannot Assure Future Growth

     We believe  that our ability to open  additional  stores at an  accelerated
rate will be a  significant  factor in achieving our growth  objectives  for the
future.  Failure to achieve  our growth  objectives  may  negatively  impact the
trading  price of our  common  stock.  Our  ability  to  accomplish  our  growth
objectives is dependent, in part, on matters beyond our control, such as weather
conditions,  zoning and other issues related to new store site development,  the
availability of qualified management personnel and general business and economic
conditions.  We cannot be sure that our growth plans for 2003 and beyond will be
achieved.  For a  discussion  of our  growth  strategies,  see the  "Growth  and
Expansion Strategies" section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

Acquisitions May Not Lead to Expected Growth

     We expect to  continue  to make  acquisitions  as an  element of our growth
strategy.  Acquisitions involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth
to differ from our expectations. For example: (1) we may not be able to continue
to identify suitable  acquisition  candidates or to acquire additional companies
at favorable prices or on other favorable terms; (2) our management's  attention
may be distracted;  (3) we may fail to retain key acquired personnel; (4) we may
assume unanticipated legal liabilities and other problems; and (5) we may not be
able to successfully integrate the operations (accounting and billing functions,
for example) of businesses we acquire to realize economic, operational and other
benefits.


Sensitivity to Regional Economic and Weather Conditions

     All of our stores are located in the Central and Southern United States. In
particular, approximately 37% of our stores are located in Texas. Therefore, our
business is sensitive to the economic and weather  conditions of these  regions.
Unusually severe or inclement weather tends to reduce sales, particularly to DIY
customers.

                                       13
<PAGE>

Dependence Upon Key and Other Personnel

     Our  success  has been  largely  dependent  on the  efforts of certain  key
personnel,  including David E. O'Reilly,  Lawrence P. O'Reilly,  Ted F. Wise and
Greg L.  Henslee.  One  key  person,  Lawrence  P.  O'Reilly  retired  from  his
operational  duties in February 2003, but will continue to serve on the Board of
Directors.  Our business and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected  by the  loss of the  services  of one or more  of  these  individuals.
Additionally,  our  successful  implementation  and management of our growth and
expansion  strategies  will  depend on our  ability to  continue  to attract and
retain qualified  personnel.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue
to attract  such  personnel.  For a further  discussion  of our  management  and
personnel,  see the  "Business"  section of Item 1 and Item 4a of this Form 10-K
and our  Proxy  Statement  on  Schedule  14A  for the  2003  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders, a portion of which is incorporated herein.

Significant Voting Control is held by the O'Reilly Family

     As of the date of this  Form 10-K the  O'Reilly  family  beneficially  owns
approximately  13% of the  outstanding  shares of our common stock. As a result,
the  O'Reilly  family  acting  together  will  continue  to be able to  exercise
significant  voting  control  over the  Company,  including  the election of our
directors and on any other matter being voted on by our shareholders,  including
any merger, sale of assets or other change in control.

Possible Volatility of Our Stock Price

     The stock  market  and the price of our  common  stock  may be  subject  to
volatile  fluctuations  based on general  economic  and market  conditions.  The
market  price for our common  stock may also be  affected by our ability to meet
analysts' expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could
have an adverse  effect on the market  price of our common  stock.  In addition,
stock market  volatility  has had a  significant  effect on the market prices of
securities  issued by many  companies  for reasons  unrelated  to the  operating
performance of these companies.  In the past, following periods of volatility in
the market price of a company's  securities,  securities class action litigation
has often been  instituted  against such a company.  If similar  litigation were
instituted  against us, it could result in substantial  costs and a diversion of
our management's attention and resources,  which could have an adverse effect on
our business.

Shares Eligible for Future Sale

     All of the shares of common stock  currently  held by our affiliates may be
sold in reliance upon the exemptive provisions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended,  subject to certain volume and other conditions  imposed by
such rule. We cannot predict the effect,  if any, that future sales of shares of
common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market
price of the common stock  prevailing  from time to time.  Sales of  substantial
amounts of common stock,  or the perception  that such sales might occur,  could
adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock.

                                       14
<PAGE>
Item 2.  Properties
-------------------

     The   following   table   provides   certain   information   regarding  our
administrative  offices and distribution  centers and offices as of December 31,
2002:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Square
   Location                       Principal Uses(s)                      Footage     Interest
-----------------               --------------------                    ---------   ---------
<S>                        <C>                                          <C>          <C>
Springfield, MO            Distribution Center, Bulk and Return
                              Facilities and Corporate Offices          330,866      Owned
Springfield, MO            Corporate Offices, Training and Technical     33,580      Leased (a)
                              Center
Springfield, MO            Corporate Offices                             54,910      Leased (b)
Kansas City, MO            Distribution Center and Offices              130,654      Owned
Oklahoma City, OK          Distribution Center and Offices              302,540      Owned
Des Moines, IA             Distribution Center and Offices              186,716      Owned
Houston, TX                Distribution Center and Offices              471,105      Owned
Dallas, TX                 Distribution Center and Offices              464,265      Owned
Little Rock, AR            Distribution Center and Offices               97,052      Leased (c)
Nashville, TN              Distribution Center and Offices              381,604      Leased (d)
Knoxville, TN              Distribution Center and Offices              163,389      Owned

<FN>
(a)  Occupied under the terms of a lease  expiring in 2007 with an  unaffiliated
     party,  subject to renewal  for three  five-year  terms at our  option.  To
     facilitate  construction,  we  loaned  to  the  owner  of the  facility  an
     aggregate of approximately $2.5 million. The principal balance of such loan
     bears  interest  at a rate of 6% per annum,  is  payable  in equal  monthly
     installments through January 2005 and is secured by a first deed of trust.

(b)  Occupied  under the terms of a lease with an  unaffiliated  party  expiring
     July 31, 2007, subject to renewal for three three-year terms at our option.

(c)  Occupied  under the terms of a lease with an  unaffiliated  party  expiring
     September  30, 2005,  subject to renewal for three  five-year  terms at our
     option.

(d)  Occupied  under the terms of a two  separate  leases  with an  unaffiliated
     party with the  distribution  center  lease  expiring in December 31, 2008,
     subject to renewal of two five-year options. The office space lease expires
     December 14, 2008, subject to renewal of two five year options.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Of the 981 stores that we operated at December  31,  2002,  375 stores were
owned,  536 stores  were  leased  from  unaffiliated  parties and 70 stores were
leased  from  one of two  real  estate  investment  partnerships  and a  limited
liability  corporation  formed by the O'Reilly family.  Leases with unaffiliated
parties generally  provide for payment of a fixed base rent,  payment of certain
tax,  insurance  and  maintenance  expenses,  and an original  term of 10 years,
subject to one or more  renewals at our option.  We have entered  into  separate
master  lease  agreements  with each of the  affiliated  real estate  investment
partnerships for the occupancy of the stores covered thereby.  Such master lease
agreements  expired on December 31, 1998, and were renewed through  December 31,
2004.  We believe  that the lease  agreements  with the  affiliated  real estate
investment  partnerships  are on terms comparable to those obtainable from third
parties.

     We  believe  that  our  present  facilities  are  in  good  condition,  are
adequately insured and together with those under construction,  are suitable and
adequate for the conduct of our current operations.

                                       15
<PAGE>

Item 3. Legal Proceedings
-------------------------

     The Company  was a defendant  in a lawsuit  entitled  "Coalition  for Level
Playing  Field,  L.L.C.,  et. AL., v.  AutoZone,  Inc.,  et. AL.," in the United
States  District  Court for the Eastern  District of New York. The suit had been
brought by a group of automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers,
who alleged that the defendants, including the Company, were in violation of the
Robinson-Patman Act. The Company settled the case for an undisclosed amount that
did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial position or results
of operations.

     The Company is involved in various  other legal  proceedings  incidental to
the conduct of its business. Although the Company cannot ascertain the amount of
liability  that it may incur from any of these  matters,  it does not  currently
believe that, in the aggregate,  they will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of  operations  or cash flows of the
Company.

Item 4. Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders
-----------------------------------------------------------

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders,  through  the
solicitation  of proxies or otherwise,  during the fourth  quarter of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2002.

Item 4a. Executive Officers of the Company
------------------------------------------

     The following  paragraphs  discuss  information about executive officers of
the Company who are not also directors:

     Ted F. Wise, age 52, Co-President,  has been an O'Reilly team member for 32
of his 52  years.  Mr.  Wise's  primary  areas of  responsibilities  are  Sales,
Operations and Real Estate.  He began his O'Reilly  career in sales in 1970, was
promoted  to store  manager in 1973,  and became our first  district  manager in
1977. He continued his progression through the ranks as Operations Manager, Vice
President, Senior Vice President focusing on Operations and Sales, and Executive
Vice President.  In July 1999, he was promoted to President of Sales, Operations
and Real Estate.

     Greg L. Henslee, age 42, Co-President, has been an O'Reilly team member for
18 of  his 42  years.  Mr.  Henslee's  primary  areas  of  responsibilities  are
Merchandise,  Systems and Distributions.  His O'Reilly career started as a Parts
Specialist,  and  during his first five  years  served in several  positions  in
retail store operations,  including District Manager.  From there he advanced to
Computer  Operations  Manager,  and over the past ten  years,  he has  served as
Director  of  Computer  Operations/Loss  Prevention,  Vice  President  of  Store
Operations and as Senior Vice President.  He has been in his current position as
President of Merchandise,  Distribution, Information Systems and Loss Prevention
since July 1999.

     James R.  Batten,  CPA, age 40, has served as Chief  Financial  Officer and
Treasurer since March 1994 and, in addition,  as Vice-President of Finance since
October 1997.  Mr. Batten served as our Finance  Manager from January 1993 until
being elected to his current  position.  From September 1986 until joining us in
January 1993, Mr. Batten was employed by the accounting firm of Whitlock,  Selim
& Keehn.  Mr. Batten was employed with the accounting  firm Deloitte,  Haskins &
Sells from 1984 until 1986.

                                       16
<PAGE>

                                     PART II

Item 5. Market For Registrant's Common Equity And Related Shareholder Matters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Common  Stock  Market  Prices and  Dividend  Information  on page 52 of the
Annual  Shareholders'  Report for the year ended  December 31,  2002,  under the
captions, "Market Prices and Dividend Information" and "Number of Shareholders,"
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data
-------------------------------

     Selected  Financial  Data on  pages 26 and 27 of the  Annual  Shareholders'
Report  for the year  ended  December  31,  2002,  under the  caption  "Selected
Consolidated Financial Data," is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7. Management's  Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Of Operations
        -------------

     Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  on pages 28 through 33 of the  Annual  Shareholders'  Report for the
year ended December 31, 2002,  under the caption,  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations,"  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 7(A). Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
---------------------------------------------------------------------

     At  December  31,  2002,   we  had  floating  rate   obligations   totaling
approximately  $90 million for amounts  outstanding  under our revolving line of
credit and long-term debt. These floating rate obligations expose us to the risk
of increased  interest expense in the event of increases in short-term rates. If
the  floating  interest  rate were to increase by 100 basis  points (or 1%) from
December 31, 2002,  levels,  our interest  expense would  increase by a total of
approximately $75,000 per month.

Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data
---------------------------------------------------

     The Company's consolidated financial statements,  the notes thereto and the
report of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, on pages 34 through 48 of the
Annual  Shareholders'  Report for the year ended  December 31,  2002,  under the
captions,  "Consolidated Financial Statements," "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements"  and "Report of Independent  Auditors," are  incorporated  herein by
this reference.

Item  9.  Changes  In And  Disagreements  With  Accountants  On  Accounting  And
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Financial Disclosure
        --------------------
     None.

                                       17
<PAGE>

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors And Executive Officers Of The Registrant
-----------------------------------------------------------

     The  information  regarding the  directors of the Company  contained in the
Company's  Proxy  Statement  on  Schedule  14A for the 2003  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders  ("the Proxy Statement") under the caption "Proposal  1-Election of
Class I Directors" is incorporated herein by this reference. The Proxy Statement
is being filed with the  Securities and Exchange  Commission  within 120 days of
the end of the Company's most recent fiscal year end. The information  regarding
executive  officers called for by item 401 of Regulation S-K is included in Part
I as Item 4A, in accordance with General  Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, for the
executive officers of the Company who are not also directors.

     The information  regarding  compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 included in the Company's Proxy Statement under the caption
"Compliance  with  Section  16(a)  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934" is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation
-------------------------------

     The  material  in  the  Proxy  Statement   under  the  caption   "Executive
Compensation",   other  than  the  material  under  the  captions  "Compensation
Committee  Report",   "Audit  Committee  Report"  and  "Performance   Graph"  is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

     Information regarding equity compensation plans of the Company in the Proxy
Statement  under the caption  "Securities  Authorized  for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation  Plans" is incorporated here by the reference.  The material in the
Proxy Statement under the caption "Security  Ownership of Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners" is incorporated here by this reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships And Related Transactions
-------------------------------------------------------
     The material in the Proxy  Statement under the caption  "Transactions  with
Insiders and Others" is incorporated here by this reference.

Item 14. Controls and Procedures
---------------------------------

     Our chief executive  officer and chief financial  officer have reviewed and
evaluated the Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures as of December 31,
2002.  Based on such  review  and  evaluation,  the  officers  believe  that the
disclosure  controls and procedures are designed  effectively to ensure that the
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files
or  submits  under the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended,  (i) is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time period specified in
the SEC's rules and forms and that the  information  required to be discussed by
the  Company  in the  reports  that it files and  submits  under the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended,  and (ii) is  accumulated,  documented  and
communicated to the Company's management, including the officers, as appropriate
to  allow  timely  decisions  regarding  required  disclosure.   There  were  no
significant  changes in the Company's internal controls or in other factors that
could  significantly  affect  these  controls  subsequent  to the  date of their
evaluation,   including  any  corrective  actions  with  regard  to  significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses.

                                       18
<PAGE>
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule And Reports On Form 8-K
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

(a)  1. Financial Statements-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

     The following  consolidated  financial  statements of O'Reilly  Automotive,
     Inc. and Subsidiaries  included in the Annual  Shareholders'  Report of the
     registrant for the year ended December 31, 2002, are  incorporated  here by
     this reference in Part II, Item 8:

          Consolidated  Balance  Sheets as of December 31, 2002,  and 2001 (page
          34)

          Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the years ended  December  31,
          2002, 2001, and 2000 (page 35)

          Consolidated  Statements of  Shareholders'  Equity for the years ended
          December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 (page 36)

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
          2002, 2001, and 2000 (page 37)

          Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  the  years  ended
          December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 (pages 38-46)

          Report of Independent Auditors (page 47)

(a)  2. Financial Statement Schedule-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

     The  following   consolidated  financial  statement  schedule  of  O'Reilly
     Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries is included in Item 15(d):

          Schedule II-Valuation and qualifying accounts

     All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is  made  in  the  applicable
     accounting  regulations of the  Securities and Exchange  Commission are not
     required under the related instructions or are inapplicable,  and therefore
     have been omitted.

(a)  3. Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans or Arrangements

     Each of the  Company's  management  contracts  and  compensatory  plans  or
     arrangements is identified in the Exhibit Index.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     The Company  filed a Current  Report  dated May 8, 2002,  that  contained a
     press release stating that the Company had implemented a shareholder rights
     plan attaching such as an exhibit therewith.

(c)  Exhibits

     See Exhibit Index on page E-1.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedules

                                       19
<PAGE>

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
-------------------------------    ------------- ------------------------------ ---------------- -------------
           Col. A                      Col. B                Col. C                  Col. D          Col. E
-------------------------------    ------------- ------------------------------ ---------------- -------------
                                                                   Additions -
                                     Balance at    Additions -    Charged to
                                     Beginning     Charged to       Other                         Balance at
                                     of Period     Costs and       Accounts -      Deductions -   End of
        Description                                Expenses        Describe        Describe       Period
-------------------------------    ------------- -------------- --------------- ---------------- -------------
(Amounts in thousands)
<S>                                   <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Year ended December 31, 2002:
Deducted from asset account:
   Allowance for doubtful
      accounts                        $ 1,760        $ 1,633        $    --        $ 2,528        $   865

Year ended December 31, 2001:
Deducted from asset account:
   Allowance for doubtful
      accounts                        $   135        $ 2,635        $ 1,386 (3)    $ 2,396 (1)    $ 1,760


Year ended December 31, 2000:
Deducted from asset account:
   Allowance for doubtful
      Accounts                        $   681        $ 1,235        $     0        $ 1,781 (1)    $   135
   Inventory reserve                  $    53        $     0        $     0        $    53 (2)    $     0

<FN>
(1)  Uncollectible accounts written off.

(2)  Inventory acquired from Hi/LO written off.

(3)  Reserves assumed upon acquisition of Mid-State.

</FN>
</TABLE>
                                       20
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                         O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                                               (Registrant)


                                         Date:  March 27, 2003
                                         By /s/ David E. O'Reilly
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         David E. O'Reilly
                                         Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been
signed  below by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the  registrant  in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>

Signature                                                  Title                                       Date
-------------------------------------        ----------------------------------------------       --------------
<S>                                          <C>                                                  <C>
                                             Director, Co-Chairman of the Board and Chief         March 27, 2003
/s/David E. O'Reilly                         Executive Officer (principal executive officer)
-------------------------------------
David E. O'Reilly

/s/Lawrence P. O'Reilly                      Director and Co-Chairman of the Board                March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Lawrence P. O'Reilly

/s/Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr.                  Director and Vice-Chairman of the Board              March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr.

/s/Rosalie O'Reilly Wooten                   Director                                             March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Rosalie O'Reilly Wooten

/s/Ted F. Wise                               Co-President                                         March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Ted F. Wise

/s/Greg  Henslee                             Co-President                                         March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Greg Henslee
                                             Vice-President of Finance
                                             Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
/s/James R. Batten                           (principal financial officer)                        March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
James R. Batten

/s/ Jay D. Burchfield                        Director                                             March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Jay D. Burchfield

/s/ Joe C. Greene                            Director                                             March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Joe C. Greene

/s/ Paul R. Lederer                          Director                                             March 27, 2003
-------------------------------------
Paul R. Lederer

</TABLE>
                                       21
<PAGE>
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, David E. O'Reilly, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of O'Reilly  Automotive,
     Inc.;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

     a.   Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to ensure  that
          material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
          consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
          entities,  particularly  during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b.   Evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c.   Presented   in  this   annual   report  our   conclusions   about  the
          effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
     equivalent functions):

     a.   All  significant  deficiencies  in the design or operation of internal
          controls  which could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record,  process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
          identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b.   Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether there were significant  changes in internal  controls
     or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal  controls
     subsequent  to the  date  of our  most  recent  evaluation,  including  any
     corrective  actions with regard to  significant  deficiencies  and material
     weaknesses.

                                        /s/  David E. O'Reilly
                                        ---------------------------------------
                                        Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

March 27, 2003

                                       22
<PAGE>
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, James R. Batten, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of O'Reilly  Automotive,
     Inc.;

2.   Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information included in this annual report,  fairly present in all material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers  and I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

     a.   Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to ensure  that
          material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
          consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
          entities,  particularly  during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b.   Evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c.   Presented   in  this   annual   report  our   conclusions   about  the
          effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying  officers and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent  evaluation,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit
     committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
     equivalent functions):

     a.   All  significant  deficiencies  in the design or operation of internal
          controls  which could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record,  process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
          identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b.   Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          controls; and

6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether there were significant  changes in internal  controls
     or in other  factors  that could  significantly  affect  internal  controls
     subsequent  to the  date  of our  most  recent  evaluation,  including  any
     corrective  actions with regard to  significant  deficiencies  and material
     weaknesses.


                                      /s/  James R. Batten
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Vice-President of Finance, Chief Financial
                                      Officer and Treasurer
March 27, 2003

                                       23
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
No.          Description
-------     ------------
<S>         <C>
2.1*        Plan of  Reorganization  Among the  Registrant,  Greene  County  Realty Co.
            ("Greene County Realty") and Certain Shareholders.

2.2         Agreement  and Plan of Merger,  dated as of December 23, 1997, by and among
            O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., Shamrock Acquisition, Inc. and Hi/LO Automotive,
            Inc., filed as Exhibit (c)(1) to the Registrant's Tender Offer Statement on
            Schedule  14D-1 dated December 23, 1997,  are  incorporated  herein by this
            reference.

3.1*        Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant.

3.2*        Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant.

3.3         Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant,  as Amended, filed as
            Exhibit  3.3 to the  Registrant's  quarterly  report  on Form  10-Q for the
            quarter ended September 30,1999, are incorporated herein by this reference.

4.1*        Form of Stock Certificate for Common Stock.

4.2         Rights  Agreement,  dated as of May 7, 2002,  between O'Reilly  Automotive,
            Inc. and UMB Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent, including the form of Certificate
            of  Designation,  Preferences  and  Rights as Exhibit A, the form of Rights
            Certificates  as Exhibit B and the Summary of Rights as Exhibit C, filed as
            Exhibit  4.2 to the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated May 8,
            2002, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.1*       (a) Form of  Employment  Agreement  between  the  Registrant  and  David E.
            O'Reilly,  Lawrence  P.  O'Reilly,  Charles H.  O'Reilly,  Jr. and  Rosalie
            O'Reilly Wooten.

10.2*       Lease between the Registrant and O'Reilly Investment Company.

10.3*       Lease between the Registrant and O'Reilly Real Estate Company.

10.4        (a) Form of  Retirement  Agreement  between  the  Registrant  and  David E.
            O'Reilly,  Lawrence  P.  O'Reilly,  Charles H.  O'Reilly,  Jr. and  Rosalie
            O'Reilly  Wooten,   filed  as  Exhibit  10.4  to  the  Registrant's  Annual
            Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is
            incorporated herein by this reference.

10.7        (a) O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Profit Sharing and Savings Plan,  filed as
            Exhibit 4.1 to the  Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8, File
            No. 33-73892, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.8*       (a) O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan.

10.9*       (a) O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Stock Purchase Plan.

10.10*      (a) O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan.

10.11*      Commercial and Industrial Real Estate Sale Contract between  Westinghouse
            Electric Corporation and Registrant.
</TABLE>
                                    Page E-1


                                       24
<PAGE>

                            EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)
<TABLE>
Exhibit
No.          Description
-------     -------------
<S>         <C>
10.12*      Form of Assignment,  Assumption  and  Indemnification  Agreement  between
            Greene County Realty and Shamrock Properties, Inc.

10.13       Loan commitment and construction  loan agreement between the Registrant and
            Deck  Enterprises,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.13  to the  Registrant's  Annual
            Shareholders' Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, are
            incorporated here by this reference.

10.14       Lease between the Registrant and Deck  Enterprises,  filed as Exhibit 10.14
            to the Registrant's Annual  Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated here by this reference.

10.15(a)    Amended  Employment   Agreement  between  the  Registrant  and  Charles  H.
            O'Reilly,   Jr.,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.17  to  the  Registrant's   Annual
            Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, is
            incorporated herein by this reference.

10.16       O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Performance  Incentive Plan,  filed as Exhibit
            10.18 (a) to the Registrant's Annual  Shareholders' Report on Form 10-K for
            the year ended December 31, 1996, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.17(a)    Second  Amendment to the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  1993 Stock Option
            Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997, is  incorporated  herein by this
            reference.

10.18       Credit  Agreement  between the  Registrant  and  NationsBank,  N.A. , dated
            October 16,  1997,  filed as Exhibit  10.17 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly
            Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  September  30,  1997,  is
            incorporated herein by this reference.

10.19       Credit  Agreement  between the  Registrant  and  NationsBank,  N.A. , dated
            January 27,  1998,  filed as Exhibit  10.20 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998,  is  incorporated
            herein by this reference.

10.20       (a) Third  Amendment to the  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  1993 Stock Option
            Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant's  Amended  Quarterly Report
            on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, is incorporated herein
            by this reference.

10.21       (a) First  Amendment  to the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Directors'  Stock
            Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.22 to the Registrant's  Amended  Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, is incorporated
            herein by this reference.

10.22       (a) O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as Exhibit
            10.23 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter
            ended March 31, 1998, is incorporated herein by this reference.

10.23       Trust Agreement  between the Registrant's  Deferred  Compensation  Plan and
            Bankers  Trust,  dated  February  2, 1998,  filed as  Exhibit  10.24 to the
            Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
            1998, is incorporated herein by this reference.
</TABLE>
                                    Page E-2

                                       25
<PAGE>
                            EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)
<TABLE>

Exhibit
No.          Description
-------     -------------
<S>         <C>
10.24(a)    2001  Amendment to the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  1993 Stock Option Plan,
            dated  May  8,  2001,  filed  herewith.

10.25       Note  Purchase  Agreement,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.25  to the  Registrant's
            Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  2001,  is
            incorporated herein by this reference.

10.26(a)    First Amendment to Retirement  Agreement,  dated February 7, 2001, filed on
            Exhibit 10.26 to the Registrant's Annual  Shareholders' Report on Form 10-K
            for the year  ended  December  31,  2001,  is  incorporated  herein by this
            reference.

10.27(a)    Fourth Amendment to the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan,
            dated February 7, 2001, filed on Exhibit 10.27 to the  Registrant's  Annual
            Shareholders'  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, is
            incorporated herein by this reference.

10.28       Credit Agreement between  Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., dated July
            29, 2002 filed as Exhibit  10.28 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on
            From 10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 2002, is  incorporated  herein by
            this reference.

13.1        Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, filed herewith.

21.1        Subsidiaries of the Registrant, filed herewith.

23.1        Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, filed herewith.

99.1        Certificate of the Chief Executive  Officer  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section
            1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
            filed herewith.

99.2        Certificate of the Chief Financial  Officer  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section
            1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
            filed herewith.

<FN>
*    Previously filed as Exhibit of same number to the Registration Statement of
     the Registrant on Form S-1, File No.  33-58948,  and  incorporated  here by
     this reference.

(a)  Management  contract or  compensatory  plan or  arrangement  required to be
     filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.
</FN>
</TABLE>
                                    Page E-3

                                       26
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
        Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders

                      Selected Consolidated Financial Data
<TABLE>
Years ended December 31,       2002        2001       2000      1999      1998      1997      1996      1995      1994      1993
------------------------    ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
(In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                         <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
Product sales               $1,312,490  $1,092,112  $890,421  $754,122  $616,302  $316,399  $259,243  $201,492  $167,057  $137,164
Cost of goods sold,
 including warehouse and
 distribution expenses         759,090     624,294   507,720   428,832   358,439   181,789   150,772   116,768    97,758    82,102
                            ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
  Gross profit                 553,400     467,818   382,701   325,290   257,863   134,610   108,471    84,724    69,299    55,062
Operating, selling, general
 and administrative expenses   415,099     353,987   292,672   248,370   200,962    97,526    79,620    62,687    52,142    42,492
                            ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Operating income               138,301     113,831    90,029    76,920    56,901    37,084    28,851    22,037    17,157    12,570
Other income (expense), net     (7,319)     (7,104)   (6,870)   (3,896)   (6,958)      472     1,182       236       376       216
Provision for income taxes      48,990      40,375    31,451    27,385    19,171    14,413    11,062     8,182     6,461     4,556
                            ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Income from continuing
 operations                     81,992      66,352    51,708    45,639    30,772    23,143    18,971    14,091    11,072     8,230
                            ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Income from discontinued
 operations                          -           -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        48
                            ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Net income                  $   81,992  $   66,352  $ 51,708  $ 45,639  $ 30,772  $ 23,143  $ 18,971  $ 14,091  $ 11,072  $  8,278
                            ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
BASIC EARNINGS PER COMMON
     SHARE:
Income per share from
 continuing operations      $     1.54  $     1.27  $   1.01  $   0.94  $   0.72  $   0.55  $   0.45  $   0.40  $   0.32   $  0.25
Income per share from
 discontinued operations             -           -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
                            ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Net income per share        $     1.54  $     1.27  $   1.01  $   0.94  $   0.72  $   0.55  $   0.45  $   0.40  $   0.32   $  0.25
                            ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Weighted-average common
 shares outstanding             53,114      52,121    51,168    48,674    42,476    42,086    41,728    35,640    34,620    32,940
                            ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE-
ASSUMING DILUTION:
Income per share from
 continuing operations      $     1.53  $     1.26  $   1.00  $   0.92  $   0.71  $   0.54  $   0.45  $   0.39  $   0.32  $   0.25
Income per share from
 discontinued operations             -           -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
                            ----------  ----------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Net income per share        $     1.53  $     1.26  $   1.00  $   0.92  $   0.71  $   0.54  $   0.45  $   0.39  $   0.32  $   0.25
                            ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Weighted-average common
 shares outstanding-adjusted    53,692      52,786    51,728    49,715    43,204    42,554    42,064    35,804    34,778    33,046
                            ==========  ==========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
</TABLE>

                                       27

<PAGE>



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                Selected Consolidated Financial Data (continued)
<TABLE>

Years ended December 31,            2002      2001      2000      1999      1998      1997      1996      1995      1994      1993
-------------------------------  ---------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
(In thousands, except selected operating data)
<S>                              <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
SELECTED OPERATING DATA:
Number of stores at year-end (a)       981       875       672       571       491       259       219       188       165       145
Total store square footage at
 year-end (in 000's) (a) (b)         6,617     5,882     4,491     3,777     3,172     1,454     1,155       923       785       671
Weighted-average product sales
 per store (in 000's) (a) (b)    $   1,415  $  1,425  $  1,412  $  1,423  $  1,368  $  1,306  $  1,239  $  1,101  $  1,007  $    949
Weighted-average product sales
 per square foot (b) (e)         $  210.70  $ 213.00  $ 212.60  $ 216.50  $ 238.00  $ 235.80  $ 242.20  $ 227.30  $ 215.40  $ 208.70
Percentage increase in same-
 store product sales open two
 full periods (c)                      3.1%      8.2%      4.0%     9.6%       6.8%      6.8%     14.4%      8.9%      8.9%    14.9%
Percentage increase in same-store
product sales open one year (d)        3.7%      8.8%      5.0%


         BALANCE SHEET DATA:

Working capital                  $ 483,623  $429,527  $296,272  $249,351  $208,363  $ 93,763  $ 74,403  $ 80,471  $ 41,416  $ 41,193

Total assets                     1,009,419   856,859   715,995   610,442   493,288   247,617   183,623   153,604    87,327    73,112

Short-term debt                        682    16,843    49,121    19,358    13,691       130     3,154       231       311       495

Long-term debt, less
 current portion                   190,470   165,618    90,463    90,704   170,166    22,641       237       358       461       732

Shareholders' equity               650,524   556,291   463,731   403,044   218,394   182,039   155,782   133,870    70,224    57,805

<FN>
(a)  Store  count for 2002 does not include 27 stores  acquired  from Dick Smith
     Enterprises and Davie Automotive, Inc. in December 2002.

(b)  Total  square  footage  includes  normal  selling,  office,  stockroom  and
     receiving  space.  Weighted-average  product sales per store and per square
     foot are weighted to consider the  approximate  dates of store  openings or
     expansions.

(c)  Same-store product sales data are calculated based on the change in product
     sales of only those  stores open during both full periods  being  compared.
     Percentage  increase in same-store  product  sales is  calculated  based on
     store sales results,  which exclude sales of specialty machinery,  sales by
     outside salesmen and sales to employees.

(d)  Beginning January 2000,  same-store product sales data are calculated based
     on the change in product sales of stores open at least one year. Percentage
     increase in same-store  product  sales is  calculated  based on store sales
     results,  which  exclude  sales of  specialty  machinery,  sales by outside
     salesmen and sales to employees.

(e)  1998  does  not  include   stores   acquired   from   Hi/LO.   Consolidated
     weighted-average product sales per square foot were $207.30.

</FN>
</TABLE>
                                       28
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following discussion of our financial condition,  results of operations
and  liquidity  and capital  resources  should be read in  conjunction  with our
consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information
included elsewhere in this annual report.

     We are one of the largest  specialty  retailers of  automotive  aftermarket
parts, tools, supplies,  equipment and accessories in the United States, selling
our  products  to  both   do-it-yourself   ("DIY")  customers  and  professional
installers.  Our stores carry an extensive  product line  consisting  of new and
remanufactured  automotive hard parts, maintenance items and accessories,  and a
complete  line of auto body paint and related  materials,  automotive  tools and
professional service equipment.

     Beginning in January 2000, we calculate  same-store  product sales based on
the change in product sales for stores open at least one year. We also calculate
same-store  product  sales  based on the change in  product  sales of only those
stores open during both full periods being compared. We calculate the percentage
increase in both  same-store  product sales based on store sales results,  which
exclude  sales of specialty  machinery,  sales by outside  salesmen and sales to
employees.

     Cost of goods sold  consists  primarily of product  costs and warehouse and
distribution  expenses.  Cost of goods sold as a percentage of product sales may
be  affected by  variations  in our product  mix,  price  changes in response to
competitive factors and fluctuations in merchandise costs and vendor programs.

     Operating,  selling,  general and administrative expenses consist primarily
of store payroll,  store occupancy,  advertising expenses,  other store expenses
and general and administrative expenses, including salaries and related benefits
of corporate  team  members,  administrative  office  occupancy  expenses,  data
processing, professional expenses and other related expenses.

DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROL

     Our chief executive  officer and chief financial  officer have reviewed and
evaluated the Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures as of December 31,
2002.  Based on such  review  and  evaluation,  the  officers  believe  that the
disclosure  controls and procedures are designed  effectively to ensure that the
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files
or  submits  under the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended,  (i) is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time period specified in
the SEC's rules and forms and that the  information  required to be discussed by
the  Company  in the  reports  that it files and  submits  under the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (ii) is documented and communicated to the
Company's  management,  including the officers,  as  appropriate to allow timely
decisions  regarding required  disclosure.  There were no significant changes in
the Company's  internal  controls or in other  factors that could  significantly
affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation,  including any
corrective  actions  with  regard  to  significant   deficiencies  and  material
weaknesses.

                                       29
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The  fundamental   objective  of  financial   reporting  is  to  provide  useful
information  that allows a reader to comprehend  the business  activities of our
company. To aid in that  understanding,  management has identified our "critical
accounting  policies."  These  policies  have  the  potential  to  have  a  more
significant  impact  on  our  financial   statements,   either  because  of  the
significance  of the financial  statement item to which they relate,  or because
they  require  judgment  and  estimation  due to  the  uncertainty  involved  in
measuring, at a specific point in time, events which are continuous in nature.

o    Cost of goods sold - Cost of goods sold  includes  estimates  of  shortages
     that are adjusted upon physical  inventory counts in subsequent periods and
     estimates  of amounts due from vendors for certain  merchandise  allowances
     and rebates. These estimates are consistent with historical experience.

o    Operating,   selling,   general  and  administrative  expense  ("OSG&A") -
     Operating,  selling,  general and administrative expense includes estimates
     for worker's  compensation and other general liability  obligations,  which
     are  partially  based on  estimates of certain  claim costs and  historical
     experience.

o    Credit  operations - Allowance for doubtful  accounts is estimated based on
     historical  loss  ratios and  consistently  have been  within  management's
     expectations.

o    Revenue - We recognize sales upon shipment of the products.

o    Stock-based  compensation  - We have  elected  to use the  intrinsic  value
     method of accounting  for stock options issued under our stock option plans
     and  accordingly  do not record an  expense  for such  stock  options.  For
     purposes  of pro  forma  disclosures  under  the  fair  value  method,  the
     estimated  fair value of the  options  is  amortized  to  expense  over the
     options'  vesting  period.  Our pro forma  information  for the years ended
     December 31, is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      2002           2001          2000
                                                                     -------------------------------------
                                                                     (In thousands, except per share data)
      <S>                                                            <C>            <C>          <C>
      Net income as reported.........................                $ 81,992       $  66,352    $  51,708
                                                                     =====================================
      Stock-based compensation expense
         as reported.................................                $      -       $       -    $       -
      Stock-based compensation expense
         under fair value method.....................                $  7,217       $   5,406    $   3,531
                                                                     -------------------------------------
      Pro forma net income...........................                $ 74,775       $  60,946    $  48,177
                                                                     =====================================
      Pro forma basic net income per share...........                $   1.41       $    1.17    $    0.94
                                                                     =====================================
      Pro forma net income per share-
         assuming dilution...........................                $   1.39       $    1.15    $    0.93
                                                                     =====================================
</TABLE>
                                       30
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

Results of Operations

     The  following  table  sets  forth  certain  income  statement  data  as  a
percentage of product sales for the years indicated:

<TABLE>
                                                                  Years ended December 31,
                                                               ------------------------------
                                                                2002       2001       2000
<S>                                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
Product sales............................................       100.0%     100.0%     100.0%
Cost of goods sold, including warehouse and
       distribution expenses.............................        57.8       57.2       57.0
                                                               ------------------------------
Gross profit                                                     42.2       42.8       43.0
Operating, selling, general and administrative
     expenses............................................        31.6       32.4       32.9
                                                               ------------------------------
Operating income.........................................        10.6       10.4       10.1
Other expense, net.......................................        (0.6)      (0.6)      (0.8)
                                                               ------------------------------
Income before income taxes...............................        10.0        9.8        9.3
Provision for income taxes...............................         3.7        3.7        3.5
                                                               ------------------------------
Net income...............................................         6.3%       6.1%       5.8%
                                                               ==============================
</TABLE>
2002 Compared to 2001

     Product sales increased $220.4 million, or 20.2% from $1.09 billion in 2001
to $1.31 billion in 2002, due to 106 net  additional  stores opened during 2002,
and a 3.7%  increase in  same-store  product  sales for stores open at least one
year.  We believe  that the  increased  product  sales  achieved by the existing
stores are the result of our offering of a broader selection of products in most
stores,  an increased  promotional and  advertising  effort through a variety of
media  and  localized  promotional  events,  and  continued  improvement  in the
merchandising  and store layouts of most stores.  Also,  our continued  focus on
serving professional installers contributed to increased sales.

     Gross  profit  increased  18.3% from  $467.8  million  (or 42.8% of product
sales)  in 2001 to  $553.4  million  (or 42.2% of  product  sales) in 2002.  The
increase in gross  profit  dollars is primarily  due to increases in sales.  The
decrease  in gross  profit as a percent of  product  sales is  primarily  due to
increased sales to independent  jobbers,  which are at a lower gross margin, and
increased distribution costs at the distribution centers acquired from Mid-State
Automotive Distributors, Inc.

     Operating,  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses increased $61.1
million  from  $354.0  million  (or  32.4% of  product  sales) in 2001 to $415.1
million (or 31.6% of product  sales) in 2002.  The increase in these expenses in
dollar amount was  primarily  attributable  to increased  salaries and benefits,
rent and other costs associated with the addition of employees and facilities to
support the increased level of our operations. The decrease in OSG&A expenses as
a percent of product sales was primarily due to reductions in payroll,  benefits
and other OSG&A expenses through management's expense control initiatives.

                                       31
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

     Other expense, net, increased by $215,000 from $7.1 million in 2001 to $7.3
million in 2002. The increase was primarily due to interest expense on increased
borrowings under our credit facility and a decrease in interest income.

     Provision  for income  taxes  increased  from $40.4  million in 2001 (37.8%
effective  tax rate) to $49.0 million in 2002 (37.4%  effective  tax rate).  The
increase in the dollar amount was primarily due to the increase of income before
income taxes. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily due to changes in
the mix of business between the states in which we operate.

     Principally  as a result  of the  foregoing,  net  income in 2002 was $82.0
million (or 6.3% of product  sales),  an  increase of $15.6  million (or 23.6%of
product  sales)  from net  income in 2001 of $66.4  million  (or 6.1% of product
sales).

2001 Compared to 2000

     Product sales  increased  $201.7  million,  or 22.7% from $890.4 million in
2000 to $1.09 billion in 2001, primarily due to 121 net additional stores opened
during 2001,  an 8.8%  increase in  same-store  product sales for stores open at
least one year.  We believe that the  increased  product  sales  achieved by the
existing  stores  are the  result  of our  offering  of a broader  selection  of
products in most stores, an increased promotional and advertising effort through
a variety of media and localized  promotional events, and continued  improvement
in the merchandising and store layouts of most stores. Also, our continued focus
on serving professional installers contributed to increased sales.

     Gross  profit  increased  22.2% from  $382.7  million  (or 43.0% of product
sales) in 2000 to $467.8 million (or 42.8% of product sales) in 2001.

     Operating,  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses increased $61.3
million  from  $292.7  million  (or  32.9% of  product  sales) in 2000 to $354.0
million (or 32.4% of product  sales) in 2001.  The increase in these expenses in
dollar amount was  primarily  attributable  to increased  salaries and benefits,
rent and other costs associated with the addition of employees and facilities to
support the increased level of our operations.

     Other expense, net, increased by $234,000 from $6.9 million in 2000 to $7.1
million in 2001. The increase was primarily due to interest expense on increased
debt levels  related to the issuing of $100 million of senior  notes,  partially
offset by lower  interest  expense  on  borrowings  under the  revolving  credit
facility due to lower interest rates.

     Provision  for income  taxes  increased  from $31.5  million in 2000 (37.8%
effective  tax rate) to $40.4 million in 2001 (37.8%  effective  tax rate).  The
increase in the dollar  amount was due to the increase of income  before  income
taxes.

     Principally  as a result  of the  foregoing,  net  income in 2001 was $66.4
million (or 6.1% of product  sales),  an  increase of $14.6  million (or 28.3%of
product  sales)  from net  income in 2000 of $51.7  million  (or 5.8% of product
sales).

                                       32
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     Net cash provided by operating activities was $104.5 million in 2002, $50.0
million in 2001 and $5.8  million in 2000.  The  increase  in cash  provided  by
operating  activities  in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily due to increases in
net income, accounts payable, income taxes payable,  accrued payroll and accrued
benefits and  withholdings,  partially  offset by increases in  receivables  and
inventory.  The  increase  in cash  provided  by  operating  activities  in 2001
compared  to 2000 is  largely  the  result of smaller  increases  in  inventory,
increased  net income and to a lesser  extent,  increased  accrued  benefits and
withholdings.  This  increase in cash  provided by operating  activities in 2001
compared to 2000 was partially offset by the increase in amounts receivable from
vendors and a decrease in accounts payable and other current liabilities.

     Net cash used in investing  activities  was $105.4  million in 2002,  $77.8
million  in 2001  and  $40.5  million  in 2000.  The  increase  in cash  used in
investing  activities  in 2002  was  primarily  due to  increased  purchases  of
property and  equipment.  The increase in cash used in investing  activities  in
2001 was largely due to the purchase of Mid-State, as discussed in Note 2 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements,  and a significant reduction in the amount of
proceeds received from the sale of property and equipment.

     On December 15, 2000,  we entered  into a $50 million  Synthetic  Operating
Lease Facility ("the  Facility") with a group of financial  institutions.  Under
the Facility,  the Lessor  generally  acquires land to be developed for O'Reilly
Auto  Parts  stores  and funds the  development  thereof  by the  Company as the
Construction Agent and Guarantor.  We subsequently  leases the property from the
Lessor for an initial  term  through  December  15,  2005,  and has an option to
request  two  additional  successive  renewal  periods of five years  each.  The
Facility  provides for a residual  value  guarantee of $41.7 million at December
31, 2002, and purchase  options on the properties.  It also contains  provisions
for an event of default whereby the Lessor,  among other things,  may require us
to purchase  any or all of the  properties.  We are  utilizing  the  Facility to
finance a portion of its store  growth.  Funding  under the Facility at December
31, 2002,  and 2001,  totaled  $49.0  million and $43.0  million,  respectively.
Future minimum rental  commitments  under the Facility have been included in the
table of future minimum annual rental  commitments  below.  Our lessor under the
Facility acts as lessor to numerous other lessees under similar  synthetic lease
arrangements and has no other  operations.  The Company's maximum loss under its
Facility is limited to its $41.7 million  residual  value  guarantee and none of
the  Company's   assets  have  been  pledged  as  collateral  for  the  Lessor's
obligations.

     On December 29, 2000, we completed a sale-leaseback transaction.  Under the
terms of the transaction,  we sold 90 properties,  including land, buildings and
improvements,  for $52.3 million.  The lease, which is being accounted for as an
operating  lease,  provides  for an  initial  lease  term of 21 years and may be
extended for one initial ten-year period and two additional  successive  periods
of five years each.  The resulting gain of $4.5 million has been deferred and is
being amortized over the initial lease term. Net rent expense during the initial
term will be approximately $5.5 million annually and is included in the table of
future minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable  operating leases.
Proceeds from the transaction were used to reduce  outstanding  borrowings under
our former revolving credit facility.

                                       33
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

     On May 16,  2001,  we  completed a $100  million  private  placement of two
series of unsecured  senior notes  ("Senior  Notes").  The Series  2001-A Senior
Notes were issued for $75 million,  are due May 16, 2006,  and bear  interest at
7.72% per year. The Series 2001-B Senior Notes were issued for $25 million,  are
due May 16, 2008, and bears  interest at 7.92% per year.  The private  placement
agreement  allows for a total of $200 million of Senior Notes issuable in series
and is guaranteed by all of our susidiaries.  Proceeds from the transaction were
used  to  reduce  outstanding  borrowings  under  our  former  revolving  credit
facility.

     In August,  2001, we completed a sale-leaseback with  O'Reilly-Wooten  2000
LLC (an entity owned by certain  shareholders  of the Company).  The transaction
closed on September 1, 2001, with a purchase price of approximately $5.6 million
for nine  O'Reilly  Auto Parts  stores and did not result in a material  gain or
loss. The lease,  which has been accounted for as an operating lease,  calls for
an initial term of 15 years with three five-year renewal options.

     Capital expenditures were $102.3 million in 2002, $68.5 million in 2001 and
$82.0 million in 2000. These  expenditures were primarily related to the opening
of new stores,  as well as the relocation or remodeling of existing  stores.  We
either  opened or acquired  106, 203 and 101 net stores in 2002,  2001 and 2000,
respectively.  Eighteen net,  additional  stores were acquired in December 2002,
and will be included in 2003 as new stores.  We remodeled or relocated 27 stores
in 2002, 16 stores in 2001 and 8 stores in 2000. Three new distribution  centers
were  acquired;  two in  October  2001,  located  in  Nashville,  Tennessee  and
Knoxville, Tennessee, and one in October 2000, located in Little Rock, Arkansas.

     Our  continuing  store  expansion  program  requires   significant  capital
expenditures  and working capital  principally for inventory  requirements.  The
costs  associated  with the opening of a new store  (including  the cost of land
acquisition,  improvements,  fixtures,  inventory  and computer  equipment)  are
estimated to average approximately $900,000 to $1.1 million; however, such costs
may be  significantly  reduced where we lease,  rather than purchase,  the store
site.  Although the cost to acquire the business of an independently owned parts
store varies,  depending  primarily upon the amount of inventory and the amount,
if any, of real estate  being  acquired,  we estimate  that the average  cost to
acquire  such a business  and  convert it to one of our stores is  approximately
$400,000.  We plan to finance our expansion  program through cash expected to be
provided from operating  activities and available  borrowings under our existing
credit facilities.

     On July 29, 2002, we completed an unsecured,  three-year  syndicated credit
facility  in  the  amount  of  $150  million  led by  Wells  Fargo  Bank  as the
Administrative Agent replacing a five-year  syndicated credit facility.  The new
credit facility is guaranteed by all of our subsidiaries and may be increased to
a total of $200 million,  subject to availability of such additional credit from
either  existing banks within the facility or other banks.  The Credit  Facility
bears  interest at LIBOR plus .875%  (2.26% at December 31, 2002) and expires in
July  2005.  At  December  31,  2002,  and 2001,  $90,000,000  and  $61,350,000,
respectively,  of the revolving credit facility were outstanding.  Additionally,
$15  million  of the term loan  under the old  credit  facility  outstanding  at
December 31, 2001,was fully repaid in 2002.

                                       34
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

     Our  contractual  obligations,  including  commitments  for future payments
under   non-cancelable   lease   arrangements   and  short  and  long-term  debt
arrangements,  are summarized  below and are fully disclosed in Notes 6 and 7 to
the consolidated financial statements.

<TABLE>
                                                             Payments Due By Period
                                           ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                        Less than     2-3         4-5       After 5
                                              Total      1 Year      Years       Years       Years
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Contractual Obligations:                                          (In thousands)
<S>                                        <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Notes payable.........................     $       95  $       78  $       17  $        -  $        -
Long-term debt........................        190,076          12      90,027      75,033      25,004
Capital lease obligations.............            981         592         389           -           -
Operating leases......................        252,301      29,882      51,346      39,004     132,069
Unconditional purchase commitments....         41,094      41,094           -           -           -
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Total contractual cash obligations....     $  484,547   $  71,658  $  141,779  $  114,037  $  157,073
                                           ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========
</TABLE>
     We believe that our existing cash, short-term investments, cash expected to
be provided by operating activities,  available bank credit facilities and trade
credit will be sufficient  to fund both our short- and  long-term  capital needs
for the foreseeable future.

Inflation and Seasonality

     We succeeded,  in many cases,  in reducing the effects of merchandise  cost
increases   principally  by  taking  advantage  of  vendor  incentive  programs,
economies of scale  resulting from  increased  volume of purchases and selective
forward  buying.  As a result,  we do not believe that our operations  have been
materially affected by inflation.

     Our business is somewhat  seasonal,  primarily as a result of the impact of
weather  conditions  on store sales.  Store sales and profits have  historically
been higher in the second and third quarters  (April through  September) of each
year than in the first and fourth quarters.

                                       35
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

Quarterly Results

     The following table sets forth certain quarterly  unaudited  operating data
for fiscal 2002 and 2001.  The  unaudited  quarterly  information  includes  all
adjustments which management  considers necessary for a fair presentation of the
information shown.

     The unaudited  operating data presented below should be read in conjunction
with our Consolidated  Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere
in this annual report, and the other financial information included here.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 Fiscal 2002
                                                       ------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   (In thousands, except per share data)
                                                            First          Second         Third         Fourth
                                                           Quarter         Quarter       Quarter        Quarter
                                                          ----------      ----------    ----------     ----------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
Product sales......................................       $ 295,489       $ 343,181      $ 359,579      $ 314,241
Gross profit.......................................         126,028         144,186        152,196        130,990
Operating income...................................          28,638          37,769         40,723         31,171
Net income.........................................          16,642          22,547         24,096         18,707
Basic net income per common share..................            0.31            0.42           0.45           0.35
Net income per common share-assuming dilution......            0.31            0.42           0.45           0.35

                                                                                 Fiscal 2001
                                                       ------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   (In thousands, except per share data)
                                                            First          Second         Third        Fourth
                                                           Quarter         Quarter       Quarter       Quarter
                                                          ----------      ----------    ----------    ----------

Product sales......................................       $ 239,063       $ 280,676     $ 293,996     $ 278,377
Gross profit.......................................         102,426         117,789       125,287       122,316
Operating income...................................          21,732          30,758        34,142        27,199
Net income.........................................          12,317          17,987        20,140        15,908
Basic net income per common share..................            0.24            0.35          0.38          0.30
Net income per common share-assuming dilution......            0.24            0.34          0.38          0.30

</TABLE>

                                       36
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

Shareholder Rights Plan

     On May 17, 2002, the Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder  Rights Plan.
One Right was  distributed  for each share of common  stock,  par value $.01 per
share, of the Company held by stockholders of record as of the close of business
on May  31,  2002.  The  Rights  initially  entitle  stockholders  to buy a unit
representing one  one-hundredth of a share of a new series of preferred stock of
the Company for $160 and expire on May 30, 2012.  The Rights  generally  will be
exercisable  only if a person or group acquires  beneficial  ownership of 15% or
more of the Company's  common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer upon
consummation of which such person or group would beneficially own 15% or more of
the Company's common stock. If a person of group acquires  beneficial  ownership
of 15% or more of the Company's common stock, each Right (other than Rights held
by the  acquiror)  will,  unless the Rights are redeemed by the Company,  become
exercisable  upon payment of the exercise  price of $160 for common stock of the
Company  having a market value of twice the exercise  price of the Right. A copy
of the  Stockholder  Rights Plan was filed on May 28, 2002,  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, as Exhibit 99.1 to our report on Form 8-K.

New Accounting Standards

     In August 2001, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statements
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 144,  Accounting  for the  Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Asset,  superseding Statement No. 121, Accounting for the
Impairment of  Long-Lived  Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be Disposed Of.
SFAS 144 applies to all long-lived assets,  including  discontinued  operations.
SFAS 144 requires that those  long-lived  assets  classified as held for sale be
measured at the lower of carrying amount (cost less accumulated depreciation) or
fair  value  less  costs to sell.  Discontinued  operations  will no  longer  be
measured at net realizable  value or include  amounts for operating  losses that
have not yet  occurred.  SFAS 144 also  broadens the  reporting of  discontinued
operations to include all  components of an entity with  operations  that can be
distinguished  from the rest of the entity and that will be eliminated  from the
ongoing operations of the entity in a disposal transaction. We do not expect the
adoption of the new  statement  to have a  significant  financial  impact on our
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

     In June,  2002, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement
No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Under
the new rules,  a liability  for the costs  associated  with an exit or disposal
activity  will be  recognized  when the  liability is incurred as opposed to the
date of an entity's  commitment to an exit plan. The new rules are effective for
exit or disposal  activities  that are initiated  after December 31, 2002. We do
not  expect  the  adoption  of new  rules to have a  significant  impact  on our
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

                                       37
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

     In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
No. 148,  Accounting for  Stock-Based  Compensation - Transition and Disclosure,
amending  SFAS 123,  Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation.  SFAS 148 gives
companies  electing to expense employee stock options three methods to do so. In
addition,  the  statement  amends the  disclosure  requirements  to require more
prominent  disclosure  about the method of accounting for  stock-based  employee
compensation  and the  effect of the  method  used on  reported  results in both
annual and interim financial  statements.  We have elected to continue using the
intrinsic  value method of accounting for stock-based  compensation.  Therefore,
the new  statement  will not  have  any  effect  on our  consolidated  financial
position or results of  operations.  See Note 10 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements for additional information regarding stock-based compensation.

     In  November  2002,  the  Financial   Accounting   Standards  Board  issued
Interpretation  45,  Guarantor's  Accounting  and  Disclosure  Requirements  for
Guarantees.  The  interpretation  elaborates  on the  disclosures  to be made in
interim and annual  financial  statements of a guarantor  about its  obligations
under certain  guarantees that it has issued. It also clarifies that a guarantor
is required to recognize,  at the inception of a guarantee,  a liability for the
fair  value  of the  obligation  undertaken  in  issuing  a  guarantee.  Initial
recognition and measurement provisions of the interpretation are applicable on a
prospective  basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The
disclosure  requirements  are effective  for financial  statements of interim or
annual  periods  ending after December 15, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, we did
not have any outstanding guarantees.  Other than subsidiary guarantees of parent
debt as disclosed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     In  January  2003,  the  Financial   Accounting   Standards   Board  issued
Interpretation   46,   Consolidation   of  Variable   Interest   Entities.   The
interpretation  expands upon and strengthens  existing  accounting guidance that
addresses when a company should include in its financial  statements the assets,
liabilities  and activities of another entity.  A variable  interest entity is a
corporation,  partnership,  trust or any other legal structure used for business
purposes  that either (a) does not have equity  investors  with voting rights or
(b) has equity investors that do not provide sufficient  financial resources for
the entity to support its  activities.  The  interpretation  requires a variable
interest  entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a
majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest  entity's  activities or
is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's  residual returns or both. The
consolidation  requirements of the interpretation  apply immediately to variable
interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The consolidation requirements
apply to older  entities in the first  fiscal year or interim  period  beginning
after June 15, 2003.  We have  determined  that our Lessor  under the  Synthetic
Lease Facility is a variable  interest  entity under  Interpretation  No. 46 and
that we are the primary  beneficiary.  We are evaluating the various options and
their  related  impact on our  consolidated  financial  position  or  results of
operations.

     During 2002,  the Emerging  Issues Task Force  reached a consensus on Issue
No.  02-16,  Accounting  by  a  Customer  (including  a  Reseller)  for  Certain
Consideration   Received  from  a  Vendor."   Under  the  new   guidance,   cash
consideration received from a vendor should be classified as a reduction of cost
of  sales.  If the  consideration  received  represents  a  payment  for  assets
delivered  to  the  vendor,   it  should  be  classified  as  revenue.   If  the
consideration is a reimbursement of a specific,  incremental,  identifiable cost
incurred in selling the vendor's product,  the cost should be characterized as a
reduction of that cost  incurred.  The guidance is effective for fiscal  periods
beginning  after  December  15,  2002.  We do not  expect the  adoption  of this
guidance to have a significant impact on our consolidated  financial position or
results of operations.

                                       38
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

Forward-Looking Statements

     We claim the protection of the safe-harbor for  forward-looking  statements
within the  meaning of the  Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform Act of 1995.
Certain statements contained within this discuss,  among other things,  expected
growth, store development and expansion strategy,  business  strategies,  future
revenues and future performance.  These forward-looking  statements are based on
estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future
events and results.  Such  statements  are subject to risks,  uncertainties  and
assumptions,  including,  but not limited to,  competition,  product demand, the
market for auto parts, the economy in general, inflation,  consumer debt levels,
governmental  approvals,  our  ability to hire and retain  qualified  employees,
risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses, weather, terrorist
activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially differ from
anticipated results described in these forward-looking statements.  Please refer
to the Risk  Factors  sections  of the  company's  Form 10-K for the year  ended
December 31, 2002, for more details.



                                       39

<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                      (In thousands, except per share data)

                                                                                    December 31,
                                                                               2002            2001
                                                                           ------------    ------------
<S>                                                                         <C>             <C>
Assets
Current assets:
    Cash...............................................................    $   29,333      $   15,041
    Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts
      of $865 in 2002 and $1,760 in 2001...............................        45,421          41,486
    Amounts receivable from vendors, net...............................        42,918          38,440
    Inventory..........................................................       504,098         447,793
    Refundable income taxes............................................            --             168
    Deferred income taxes..............................................         5,040           3,908
    Other current assets...............................................         4,235           3,827
                                                                           ----------      ----------
              Total current assets.....................................       631,045         550,663

Property and equipment, at cost:
    Land...............................................................        52,362          48,096
    Buildings.........................................................        160,425         121,250
    Leasehold improvements.............................................        57,376          45,456
    Furniture, fixtures and equipment .................................       177,293         143,046
    Vehicles...........................................................        44,067          34,517
                                                                           ----------      ----------
                                                                              491,523         392,365
    Accumulated depreciation and amortization..........................       137,922         103,361
                                                                           ----------      ----------
              Net property and equipment...............................       353,601         289,004

Notes receivable.......................................................         1,880           2,557
Other assets, net......................................................        22,893          14,635
                                                                           ----------      ----------
Total assets...........................................................    $1,009,419      $  856,859
                                                                           ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

                                       40
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                     Consolidated Balance Sheets (continued)
                                                                                     December 31,
                                                                                 2002           2001
                                                                             -----------    -----------
                                                                                   (In thousands)
<S>                                                                         <C>            <C>
Liabilities and shareholders' equity
Current liabilities:
    Notes payable to bank..............................................     $        --     $    5,000
    Income taxes payable...............................................           9,798             --
    Accounts payable...................................................          85,370         61,875
    Accrued payroll....................................................          15,257         12,866
    Accrued benefits and withholdings..................................          19,165         14,038
    Other current liabilities..........................................          17,150         15,514
    Current portion of long-term debt..................................             682         11,843
                                                                             ----------     ----------
              Total current liabilities................................         147,422        121,136

Long-term debt, less current portion...................................         190,470        165,618
Deferred income taxes..................................................          15,939          9,141
Other liabilities......................................................           5,064          4,673
Commitments and contingencies..........................................              --             --

Shareholders' equity:
         Preferred stock, $0.01 par value:
           Authorized shares - 5,000,000
           Issued and outstanding shares - none........................              --             --
         Common stock, $0.01 par value:
           Authorized shares - 90,000,000
           Issued and outstanding shares - 53,371,242 in 2002 and
            52,850,713 in 2001.........................................             534            528
Additional paid-in capital ............................................         269,030        256,795
Retained earnings......................................................         380,960        298,968
                                                                             ----------     ----------
Total shareholders' equity.............................................         650,524        556,291
                                                                             ----------     ----------
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity.............................      $1,009,419     $  856,859
                                                                             ==========     ==========
</TABLE>







                             See accompanying notes.

                                       41
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                        Consolidated Statements Of Income
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                Years ended December 31,
                                                                             2002           2001           2000
                                                                         ------------   ------------   ------------
                                                                            (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                                      <C>            <C>            <C>
Product sales...................................................         $  1,312,490   $  1,092,112   $    890,421
Cost of goods sold, including warehouse and
     distribution expenses......................................              759,090        624,294        507,720
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.........              415,099        353,987        292,672
                                                                         ------------   ------------   ------------
                                                                            1,174,189        978,281        800,392
                                                                         ------------   ------------   ------------
Operating income................................................              138,301        113,831         90,029
Other income (expense):
    Interest expense............................................               (9,248)        (9,092)        (8,362)
    Interest income.............................................                  989          1,362            439
    Other, net..................................................                  940            626          1,053
                                                                         ------------   ------------   ------------
                                                                               (7,319)        (7,104)        (6,870)
                                                                         ------------   ------------   ------------
Income before income taxes......................................              130,982        106,727         83,159
Provision for income taxes......................................               48,990         40,375         31,451
                                                                         ------------   ------------   ------------
Net income......................................................         $     81,992   $     66,352   $     51,708
                                                                         ============   ============   ============
Basic income per common share:
Net income per common share.....................................         $       1.54   $       1.27   $       1.01
                                                                         ============   ============   ============
Weighted-average common shares outstanding......................               53,114         52,121         51,168
                                                                         ============   ============   ============
Income per common share-assuming dilution:
Net income per common share-assuming dilution...................         $       1.53    $      1.26   $       1.00
                                                                         ============   ============   ============
Adjusted weighted-average common shares outstanding.............               53,692         52,786         51,728
                                                                         ============   ============   ============

</TABLE>















                             See accompanying notes.

                                       42
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                 Consolidated Statements Of Shareholders' Equity
<TABLE>

                                                                              Additional
                                                         Common Stock           Paid-In        Retained
                                                       Shares Par Value         Capital        Earnings        Total
                                                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
(In thousands)
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>           <C>            <C>
Balance at December 31, 1999......................      50,800     $    508      $221,628       $180,908       $403,044
    Issuance of common stock under
       employee benefit plans.....................         364            3         4,535              -          4,538
    Issuance of common stock under stock
       option plans...............................         381            4         3,460              -          3,464
    Tax benefit of stock options exercised........           -            -           977              -            977
    Net income....................................           -            -             -         51,708         51,708
                                                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2000......................      51,545          515       230,600        232,616        463,731
    Issuance of common stock under
       employee benefit plans.....................         223            2         4,856              -          4,858
    Issuance of common stock under
       stock option plans.........................       1,083           11        14,924              -         14,935
    Tax benefit of stock options exercised........           -            -         6,415              -          6,415
    Net income....................................           -            -             -         66,352         66,352
                                                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2001......................      52,851          528       256,795        298,968        556,291
    Issuance of common stock under
       employee benefit plans.....................         223            3         6,094              -          6,097
    Issuance of common stock under
       stock option plans.........................         297            3         4,677              -          4,680
    Tax benefit of stock options exercised........           -            -         1,464              -          1,464
    Net income....................................           -            -             -         81,992         81,992
                                                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2002......................      53,371     $    534      $269,030       $380,960       $650,524
                                                   ======================================================================
</TABLE>











                             See accompanying notes.

                                       43
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                                       Years ended December 31,
                                                                                   2002         2001         2000
                                                                                ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                                             (In thousands)
<S>                                                                              <C>           <C>          <C>
Operating activities
Net income................................................................       $  81,992     $  66,352   $  51,708
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
     operating activities:
      Depreciation........................................................          35,923        28,963      23,846
      Amortization........................................................             984         1,581         966
      Provision for doubtful accounts.....................................           1,873         2,635       1,235
      Loss (gain) on sale of property and equipment.......................             (58)         (158)        220
      Deferred income taxes...............................................           5,666         6,371       3,245
      Common stock contributed to employee benefit plans..................           3,512         2,690       2,648
      Tax benefit of stock options exercised..............................           1,464         6,415         977
      Changes in operating assets and liabilities,
       net of the effects of the acquisition:
        Accounts receivable...............................................          (5,701)       (3,432)     (7,446)
        Amounts receivable from vendors ..................................          (4,478)       (7,908)     (3,191)
        Inventory.........................................................         (56,305)      (35,115)    (78,145)
        Refundable income taxes...........................................             168           (76)      2,241
        Other current assets..............................................            (788)        1,244        (444)
        Accounts payable..................................................          23,495       (16,891)      4,062
        Income taxes payable..............................................           9,798        (1,011)      1,011
        Accrued payroll...................................................           2,391         3,557       3,031
        Accrued benefits and withholdings.................................           5,127         4,678      (1,022)
        Other current liabilities.........................................          (1,148)       (9,756)        870
        Other liabilities.................................................             618          (110)         20
                                                                                ----------    ----------   ----------
           Net cash provided by operating activities                               104,533        50,029       5,832
                                                                                ----------    ----------   ----------
Investing activities
Purchases of property and equipment.......................................        (102,257)      (68,521)    (81,987)
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment .............................           2,278         8,534      52,861
Acquisition, net of cash acquired.........................................              --       (20,536)         --
Payments received on notes receivable.....................................             862           721         604
Investment in other assets................................................          (6,268)        1,956     (11,995)
                                                                                ----------    ----------   ----------
           Net cash used in investing activities..........................        (105,385)      (77,846)    (40,517)
                                                                                ----------    ----------   ----------
Financing activities
Borrowings on notes payable to bank.......................................              --         5,000      30,000
Payments on notes payable to bank.........................................          (5,000)      (35,000)         --
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt..................................         179,640       289,974     431,159
Principal payments on long-term debt......................................        (166,761)     (243,422)   (432,415)
Net proceeds from issuance of common stock................................           7,265        17,102       5,354
                                                                                ----------    ----------   ----------
Net cash provided by financing activities.................................          15,144        33,654      34,098
                                                                                ----------    ----------   ----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash...........................................          14,292         5,837        (587)
Cash at beginning of year.................................................          15,041         9,204       9,791
                                                                                ----------    ----------   ----------
Cash at end of year.......................................................       $  29,333     $  15,041   $   9,204
                                                                                ==========    ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

                             See accompanying notes.

                                       44
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature of Business

     O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  ("the  Company")  is a specialty  retailer and
supplier of automotive  aftermarket  parts,  tools,  supplies and accessories to
both the "DIY"  customer  and the  professional  installer  throughout  Alabama,
Arkansas,   Florida,  Georgia,   Illinois,   Indiana,  Iowa,  Kansas,  Kentucky,
Louisiana, Mississippi,  Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee
and Texas.

Principles of Consolidation

     The consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of the Company
and its wholly owned  subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany  balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Revenue Recognition

     The Company recognizes sales upon shipment of products.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of the  consolidated  financial  statements,  in conformity
with accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United States  ("GAAP"),
requires  management to make estimates and  assumptions  that affect the amounts
reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Inventory

     Inventory,  which  consists of automotive  hard parts,  maintenance  items,
accessories and tools,  is stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost has been
determined  using the  last-in,  first-out  ("LIFO")  method.  If the  first-in,
first-out  ("FIFO")  method of costing  inventory  had been used by the Company,
inventory would have been $499,501,000 and $442,989,000 as of December 31, 2002,
and 2001, respectively.

Amounts Receivable from Vendors

     Amounts  receivable  from  vendors  consist  primarily  of amounts  due the
Company for changeover merchandise,  rebates and other allowances.  Reserves for
uncollectable  amounts receivable from vendors are provided for in the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements and consistently have been within management's
expectations.

                                       45
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Property and Equipment

     Property and  equipment  are carried at cost.  Depreciation  is provided on
straight-line  and  accelerated  methods over the estimated  useful lives of the
assets.  Service lives for property and equipment  generally range from three to
forty  years.  Leasehold  improvements  are  amortized  over  the  terms  of the
underlying  leases.  Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.
Upon  retirement or sale, the cost and accumulated  depreciation  are eliminated
and the gain or loss, if any, is included in the  determination of net income as
a component of other income (expense). The Company reviews long-lived assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable.

     The Company  capitalizes  interest costs as a component of  construction in
progress,  based on the  weighted-average  rates paid for long-term  borrowings.
Total interest costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000, were $369,000, $324,000 and $1,354,000, respectively.

Income Taxes

     The  Company  accounts  for  income  taxes  using the  liability  method in
accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 109.
The  liability  method  provides that  deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are
determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and  liabilities  and are  measured  using the enacted tax rates and laws
that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.

Advertising Costs

     The Company expenses  advertising  costs as incurred.  Advertising  expense
charged to operations  amounted to $14,442,000,  $12,796,000 and $12,150,000 for
the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

                                       46
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Pre-opening Costs

     Costs associated with the opening of new stores, which consist primarily of
payroll and occupancy costs, are charged to operations as incurred.

Stock Option Plans

     The Company has elected to follow  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No.
25,   Accounting  for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees   ("APB  25"),  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its  employee  stock  options  because,  as
discussed in Note 10, the alternative fair value  accounting  provided for under
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation,  requires  the use of
option  valuation  models that were not  developed  for use in valuing  employee
stock  options.  Under the  intrinsic  value method in  accordance  with APB 25,
because the exercise  price of the  Company's  stock  options  equals the market
price of the underlying  stock on the date of grant, no compensation  expense is
recognized.

Earnings per Share

     Basic  earnings  per  share is based  on the  weighted-average  outstanding
common  shares.  Diluted  earnings  per  share is based on the  weighted-average
outstanding  shares adjusted for the effect of common stock  equivalents.  Stock
equivalents that could potentially  dilute basic EPS in the future that were not
included  in  the  fully  diluted  computation  because  they  would  have  been
antidilutive  were 577,551 and 664,650 for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001, respectively.

Concentration of Credit Risk

     The  Company  grants  credit to certain  customers  who meet the  Company's
pre-established  credit  requirements.  Generally,  the Company does not require
security when trade credit is granted to  customers.  Credit losses are provided
for in the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements and consistently  have
been within management's expectations.

     The Company has provided long-term  financing to a company,  through a note
receivable,  for the  construction  of an office building which is leased by the
Company  (see  Note  7).  The  note  receivable,  amounting  to  $1,911,000  and
$1,991,000 at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, bears interest at 6% and
is due in August 2017. These amounts are included in other current assets in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

     The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments,  including cash,
short-term  investments,  accounts  receivable,  accounts  payable and long-term
debt, as reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets,  approximates
fair value.

Reclassifications

Certain  reclassifications  have  been  made to the 2001  and 2000  consolidated
financial statements in order to conform to the 2002 presentation.

                                       47
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

New Accounting Pronouncements

     In August 2001, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statements
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 144,  Accounting  for the  Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Asset,  superseding Statement No. 121, Accounting for the
Impairment of  Long-Lived  Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be Disposed Of.
SFAS 144 applies to all long-lived assets,  including  discontinued  operations.
SFAS 144 requires that those  long-lived  assets  classified as held for sale be
measured at the lower of carrying amount (cost less accumulated depreciation) or
fair  value  less  costs to sell.  Discontinued  operations  will no  longer  be
measured at net realizable  value or include  amounts for operating  losses that
have not yet  occurred.  SFAS 144 also  broadens the  reporting of  discontinued
operations to include all  components of an entity with  operations  that can be
distinguished  from the rest of the entity and that will be eliminated  from the
ongoing operations of the entity in a disposal transaction. The Company does not
expect the adoption of the new statement to have a significant  financial impact
on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

     In June,  2002, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement
No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Under
the new rules,  a liability  for the costs  associated  with an exit or disposal
activity  will be  recognized  when the  liability is incurred as opposed to the
date of an entity's  commitment to an exit plan. The new rules are effective for
exit or disposal  activities  that are initiated  after  December 31, 2002.  The
Company does not expect the adoption of new rules to have a  significant  impact
on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

     In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
No. 148,  Accounting for  Stock-Based  Compensation - Transition and Disclosure,
amending  SFAS 123,  Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation.  SFAS 148 gives
companies  electing to expense employee stock options three methods to do so. In
addition,  the  statement  amends the  disclosure  requirements  to require more
prominent  disclosure  about the method of accounting for  stock-based  employee
compensation  and the  effect of the  method  used on  reported  results in both
annual and  interim  financial  statements.  The Company has elected to continue
using the intrinsic  value method of accounting  for  stock-based  compensation.
Therefore,  the  new  statement  will  not  have  any  effect  on the  Company's
consolidated  financial  position or results of  operations.  See Note 10 to the
Consolidated   Financial   Statements  for  additional   information   regarding
stock-based compensation.

     In  November  2002,  the  Financial   Accounting   Standards  Board  issued
Interpretation  45,  Guarantor's  Accounting  and  Disclosure  Requirements  for
Guarantees.  The  interpretation  elaborates  on the  disclosures  to be made in
interim and annual  financial  statements of a guarantor  about its  obligations
under certain  guarantees that it has issued. It also clarifies that a guarantor
is required to recognize,  at the inception of a guarantee,  a liability for the
fair  value  of the  obligation  undertaken  in  issuing  a  guarantee.  Initial
recognition and measurement provisions of the interpretation are applicable on a
prospective  basis to guarantees issued or motified after December 31, 2002. The
disclosure  requirements  are effective  for financial  statements of interim or
annual  periods  ending after  December 15, 2002.  As of December 31, 2002,  the
Company did not have an outstanding  guarantees other than subsidiary guarantees
of parent debt as disclosed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       48
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

     In  January  2003,  the  Financial   Accounting   Standards   Board  issued
Interpretation   46,   Consolidation   of  Variable   Interest   Entities.   The
interpretation  expands upon and strengthens  existing  accounting guidance that
addresses when a company should include in its financial  statements the assets,
liabilities  and activities of another entity.  A variable  interest entity is a
corporation,  partnership,  trust or any other legal structure used for business
purposes  that either (a) does not have equity  investors  with voting rights or
(b) has equity investors that do not provide sufficient  financial resources for
the entity to support its  activities.  The  interpretation  requires a variable
interest  entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a
majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest  entity's  activities or
is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's  residual returns or both. The
consolidation  requirements of the interpretation  apply immediately to variable
interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The consolidation requirements
apply to older  entities in the first  fiscal year or interim  period  beginning
after June 15,  2003.  The  Company  has  determined  that its Lessor  under the
Synthetic Lease Facility is a variable interest entity under  Interpretation No.
46 and that the Company is the primary beneficiary.

     During 2002,  the Emerging  Issues Task Force  reached a consensus on Issue
No.  02-16,  Accounting  by  a  Customer  (including  a  Reseller)  for  Certain
Consideration   Received  from  a  Vendor."   Under  the  new   guidance,   cash
consideration received from a vendor should be classified as a reduction of cost
of  sales.  If the  consideration  received  represents  a  payment  for  assets
delivered  to  the  vendor,   it  should  be  classified  as  revenue.   If  the
consideration is a reimbursement of a specific,  incremental,  identifiable cost
incurred in selling the vendor's product,  the cost should be characterized as a
reduction of that cost  incurred.  The guidance is effective for fiscal  periods
beginning  after  December 15, 2002. The Company does not expect the adoption of
this  guidance  to  have a  significant  impact  on our  consolidated  financial
position or results of operations.

Shareholder Rights Plan

On May 17, 2002, the Board of Directors  adopted a Shareholder  Rights Plan. One
Right was distributed for each share of common stock,  par value $.01 per share,
of the Company held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on May
31, 2002. The Rights initially  entitle  stockholders to buy a unit representing
one  one-hundredth  of a share of a new series of preferred stock of the Company
for $160 and expire on May 30, 2012.  The Rights  generally  will be exercisable
only if a person or group  acquires  beneficial  ownership of 15% or more of the
Company's common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation
of  which  such  person  or  group  would  beneficially  own  15% or more of the
Company's  common stock. If a person of group acquires  beneficial  ownership of
15% or more of the Company's common stock, each Right (other than Rights held by
the  acquiror)  will,  unless the Rights are  redeemed  by the  Company,  become
exercisable  upon payment of the exercise  price of $160 for common stock of the
Company  having a market value of twice the exercise  price of the Right. A copy
of the  Stockholder  Rights Plan was filed on May 28, 2002,  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, as Exhibit 99.1 to our report on Form 8-K.

                                       49
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 2 - ACQUISITION

     On October 1, 2001, the Company  purchased all of the outstanding  stock of
Mid-State Automotive  Distributors,  Inc.  ("Mid-State") for approximately $20.5
million including  acquisition  costs.  Mid-State was a specialty retailer which
supplied   automotive   aftermarket  parts  throughout  certain  states  in  the
southeastern part of the United States.  The acquisition was accounted for using
the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, the results of operations of
Mid-State are included in the consolidated statements of income from the date of
acquisition. The purchase price was allocated to assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. The pro
forma effect on earnings of the acquisition of Mid-State were not material.

NOTE 3 - SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

     The Company's short-term  investments are classified as  available-for-sale
in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity  Securities,"  and are carried at cost,  which  approximates  fair market
value.  At December  31, 2002,  and 2001,  short-term  investments  consisted of
preferred equity securities.

NOTE 4 - RELATED PARTIES

     The Company leases certain land and buildings  related to its O'Reilly Auto
Parts stores under six-year operating lease agreements with O'Reilly  Investment
Company  and  O'Reilly  Real  Estate  Company,  partnerships  in  which  certain
shareholders  of the Company are  partners.  Generally,  these lease  agreements
provide for renewal  options  for an  additional  six years at the option of the
Company.  Additionally, the Company leases certain land and buildings related to
its O'Reilly Auto Parts stores under 15-year  operating  lease  agreements  with
O'Reilly-Wooten 2000 LLC, which is owned by certain shareholders of the Company.
Generally, these lease agreements provide for renewal options for two additional
five-year  terms at the option of the Company (see Note 7). Rent  expense  under
these operating  leases totaled  $3,222,000,  $2,894,000 and $2,671,000 in 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively.

NOTE 5 - NOTE PAYABLE TO BANK

At December 31, 2001, the Company had available  short-term unsecured bank lines
of credit  providing  for maximum  borrowings  of $5  million,  all of which was
outstanding  at December 31, 2001.  The lines of credit,  which expired in 2002,
bore interest at LIBOR plus 0.50% and were full repaid in 2002. Additionally, at
December 31, 2001, the Company had available a short-term  line of credit in the
amount of $25 million,  none of which was  outstanding at December 31, 2001. The
line of credit bore  interest at LIBOR plus  0.75%.  Neither  line of credit was
renewed during 2002.

                                       50
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 6 - LONG-TERM DEBT

     On July 29, 2002, the Company completed an unsecured, three-year syndicated
credit facility  ("Credit  Facility") in the amount of $150 million led by Wells
Fargo Bank as the Administrative  Agent replacing a five-year  syndicated credit
facility.  The Credit Facility is guaranteed by all of our  subsidiaries and may
be  increased  to a total  of $200  million,  subject  to  availability  of such
additional credit from either existing banks within the Credit Facility or other
banks. The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus .875% (2.26% at December
31, 2002) and expires in July 2005.  At December 31,  2002,  $90,000,000  of the
Credit Facility was outstanding. At December 31, 2001, the Company had available
an unsecured credit facility  providing for maximum  borrowings of $140 million.
The facility was comprised of a revolving credit facility of $125 million, and a
term loan of $15 million.  At December 31, 2001,  $61,350,000  of the  revolving
credit  facility  and $15 million of the term loan was  outstanding.  The credit
facility,  which bore interest at LIBOR plus 0.50%, expired in January 2003. All
borrowings  outstanding under the old credit facility at December 31, 2001, were
fully repaid in 2002.

     On May 16, 2001, the Company  completed a $100 million private placement of
two series of unsecured senior notes ("Senior Notes").  The Series 2001-A Senior
Notes were issued for $75 million,  are due May 16, 2006,  and bear  interest at
7.72% per year. The Series 2001-B Senior Notes were issued for $25 million,  are
due May 16, 2008,  and bear  interest at 7.92% per year.  The private  placement
agreement allows for a total of $200 million of Senior Notes issuable in series.
Proceeds from the transaction were used to reduce  outstanding  borrowings under
the Company's former revolving credit facility.

     During 2002 and 2001, the Company leased certain  computer  equipment under
capitalized  leases.  The lease  agreements have three-year  terms expiring from
2003 to 2005.  At  December  31,  2002,  the  monthly  installments  under these
agreements were approximately  $53,000.  The present value of the future minimum
lease payments under these agreements  totaled $549,000 and $427,000 at December
31, 2002, and 2001, respectively, which has been classified as long-term debt in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  During 2002, 2001 and 2000,
the Company purchased $812,000, $467,000 and $800,000,  respectively,  of assets
under capitalized leases.

     Additionally,   the  Company  has  various   unsecured   notes  payable  to
individuals and banks, amounting to $172,000 and $251,000, at December 31, 2002,
and 2001,  respectively.  The average interest rate on these notes is 5.25% with
monthly installments approximate $7,000 including interest.

     Indirect  borrowings  under  letters of credit  provided  by a  $20,000,000
sublimit of the Credit Facility totaled  $6,028,000 and $210,650 at December 31,
2002, and 2001,  respectively.  These letters of credit reduced  availability of
borrowings at December 31, 2002, and 2001.

                                       51
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 6 - LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)

     Principal  maturities  of  long-term  debt for each of the next five  years
ending December 31, are as follows (amounts in thousands):

<TABLE>
                        <S>                             <C>
                        2003                            $      682
                        2004                                   332
                        2005                                90,102
                        2006                                75,015
                        2007                                    17
                        Thereafter                          25,004
                                                        ----------
                                                        $  191,152
                                                        ==========
</TABLE>

     Cash paid by the Company for interest  during the years ended  December 31,
2002,  2001,  and 2000,  amounted to  $9,248,000,  $9,092,000,  and  $8,240,000,
respectively.

NOTE 7 - COMMITMENTS

Lease Commitments

     On December 15,  2000,  the Company  entered  into a $50 million  Synthetic
Operating   Lease   Facility  ("the   Facility")   with  a  group  of  financial
institutions.  Under the  Facility,  the Lessor  generally  acquires  land to be
developed  for O'Reilly Auto Parts stores and funds the  development  thereof by
the Company as the Construction  Agent and Guarantor.  The Company  subsequently
leases the property  from the Lessor for an initial  term  through  December 15,
2005, and has an option to request two additional  successive renewal periods of
five years each. The Facility  provides for a residual value  guarantee of $41.7
million at December 31, 2002, and purchase  options on the  properties.  It also
contains  provisions  for an event of default  whereby the  Lessor,  among other
things,  may require the Company to purchase any or all of the  properties.  The
Company is  utilizing  the  Facility  to finance a portion of its store  growth.
Funding under the Facility at December 31, 2002, and 2001, totaled $49.0 million
and $43.0 million,  respectively.  Future minimum rental  commitments  under the
Facility  have  been  included  in the  table of future  minimum  annual  rental
commitments  below.  The  Company's  lessor under the Facility acts as lessor to
numerous other lessees under similar  synthetic  lease  arrangements  and has no
other  operations.  The Company's  maximum loss under its Facility is limited to
its $41.7 million residual value guarantee and none of the Company's assets have
been pledged as collateral for the Lessor's obligations.

     On December 29, 2000, the Company  completed a sale-leaseback  transaction.
Under the terms of the  transaction,  the Company sold 90 properties,  including
land,  buildings and improvements,  for $52.3 million. The lease, which is being
accounted  for as an operating  lease,  provides for an initial lease term of 21
years and may be extended  for one initial  ten-year  period and two  additional
successive  periods of five years each.  The resulting  gain of $4.5 million has
been  deferred  and is being  amortized  over the initial  lease term.  Net rent
expense during the initial term will be approximately  $5.5 million annually and
is included in the table of future minimum annual rental  commitments.  Proceeds
from the  transaction  were  used to  reduce  outstanding  borrowings  under the
Company's former revolving credit facility.

                                       52
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 7 - COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

     On May 16, 2001, the Company  completed a $100 million private placement of
two series of unsecured senior notes ("Senior Notes").  The Series 2001-A Senior
Notes were issued for $75 million,  are due May 16, 2006,  and bear  interest at
7.72% per year. The Series 2001-B Senior Notes were issued for $25 million,  are
due May 16, 2008,  and bear  interest at 7.92% per year.  The private  placement
agreement allows for a total of $200 million of Senior Notes issuable in series.
Proceeds from the transaction were used to reduce  outstanding  borrowings under
the Company's former revolving credit facility.

     In  August,   2001,   the   Company   completed   a   sale-leaseback   with
O'Reilly-Wooten  2000  LLC (an  entity  owned  by  certain  shareholders  of the
Company).  The transaction closed on September 1, 2001, with a purchase price of
approximately  $5.6  million  for nine  O'Reilly  Auto Parts  stores and did not
result in a material gain or loss. The lease, which has been accounted for as an
operating  lease,  calls for an initial  term of 15 years  with three  five-year
renewal options.

     The Company also leases certain office space,  retail stores,  property and
equipment under long-term, non-cancelable operating leases. Most of these leases
include  renewal options and some include options to purchase and provisions for
percentage  rent based on sales.  At December 31, 2002,  future  minimum  rental
payments under all of the Company's  operating  leases for each of the next five
years and in the aggregate are as follows (amounts in thousands):

<TABLE>
                            Related          Non-related
                            Parties            Parties           Total
                           --------           ---------        ---------
            <S>            <C>                <C>              <C>
            2003           $  2,240           $  27,642        $  29,882
            2004              1,855              25,211           27,066
            2005              1,626              22,654           24,280
            2006              1,398              19,318           20,716
            2007              1,332              16,956           18,288
            Thereafter        8,700             123,369          132,069
                           --------           ---------        ---------
                           $ 17,151           $ 235,150        $ 252,301
                           ========           =========        =========
</TABLE>

     Rental expense amounted to $29,652,000, $25,122,000 and $16,219,000 for the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

Other Commitments

     The Company had construction commitments, which totaled approximately $41.1
million, at December 31, 2002.

NOTE 8 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company  was a defendant  in a lawsuit  entitled  "Coalition  for Level
Playing  Field,  L.L.C.,  et. AL., v.  AutoZone,  Inc.,  et. AL.," in the United
States  District  Court for the Eastern  District of New York. The suit had been
brought by a group of automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers,
who alleged that the defendants, including the Company, were in violation of the
Robinson-Patman  Act. The Company  settlled the case for an  undisclosed  amount
that did not have a material impact on the  consolidated  financial  position or
results of operations.

                                       53
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 8 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS (CONTINUED)

     The Company is  involved in various  legal  proceedings  incidental  to the
conduct of its  business.  Although the Company  cannot  ascertain the amount of
liability  that it may incur from any of these  matters,  it does not  currently
believe that, in the aggregate,  they will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of  operations  or cash flows of the
Company.

NOTE 9 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company  sponsors a  contributory  profit sharing and savings plan that
covers  substantially  all  employees  who are 21 years of age with at least six
months  of  service.  Employees  may  contribute  up to  100%  of  their  annual
compensation subject to Internal Revenue Code maximum  limitations.  The Company
has agreed to make matching  contributions  equal to 50% of the first 2% of each
employee's contribution and 25% of the next 4% of each employee's  contribution.
Additional  contributions to the plan may be made as determined  annually by the
Board of  Directors.  After  two years of  service,  Company  contributions  and
earnings thereon vest at the rate of 20% per year. Company contributions charged
to operations amounted to $3,438,000 in 2002,  $3,207,000 in 2001 and $2,454,000
in 2000.  Company  contributions,  in the form of common  stock,  to the  profit
sharing and savings plan to match employee  contributions during the years ended
December 31 were as follows:

<TABLE>
                  Year                                Market
               Contributed         Shares              Value
               -----------         ------           -----------
                  <S>              <C>              <C>
                  2002             41,332           $1,202,000
                  2001             37,567              969,000
                  2000             49,891              724,000
</TABLE>

     Profit sharing contributions accrued at December 31, and funded in the next
year  through  the  issuance  of shares of the  Company's  common  stock were as
follows:

<TABLE>
                Year                              Market
               Funded           Shares            Value
              --------         --------         ----------
                <S>             <C>             <C>
                2002             77,876         $2,200,000
                2001             88,118          1,729,000
                2000            132,890          1,919,000
</TABLE>

     The Company also  sponsors a non-funded  non-contributory  defined  benefit
health care plan,  which provides  certain health benefits to qualified  retired
employees.  According to the terms of this plan,  retirees'  annual benefits are
limited to $1,000 per employee  starting at age 66 for employees with 20 or more
years of  service.  Post-retirement  benefit  costs for each of the years  ended
December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 amounted to $12,000.




                                       54
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 9 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)

     Additionally,  the Company has  adopted a stock  purchase  plan under which
1,000,000  shares of common stock are reserved  for future  issuance.  Under the
plan,  substantially all employees and non-employee  directors have the right to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock monthly at a price equal to 85% of
the fair market value of the stock, not to exceed 5% of the participants  annual
salary. Purchases of common stock under the plan during the years ended December
31 were as follows:

<TABLE>
                                                     Weighted
                                                     Average
                  Year             Shares             Price
                 ------           --------          ---------
                  <S>             <C>                 <C>
                  2002            102,662             $25.18
                  2001             97,991              22.13
                  2000            147,315              12.83
</TABLE>

     The Company has in effect a  performance  incentive  plan for the Company's
senior  management  under which 400,000 shares of restricted  stock are reserved
for future  issuance.  Under the plan,  5,881 shares were issued during 2002, no
shares were issued during 2001 and 12,164 shares were issued during 2000.



                                       55
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 10 - STOCK OPTION PLANS

     The Company has a stock option plan under which  incentive stock options or
non-qualified  stock  options may be granted to officers and key  employees.  An
aggregate  of 6,000,000  shares of common stock is reserved for future  issuance
under this plan.  The exercise  price of options  granted shall not be less than
the fair  market  value of the stock on the date of grant and the  options  will
expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant.  Options granted  pursuant
to the plan become exercisable no sooner than six months from the date of grant.
In the case of a shareholder  owning more than 10% of the  outstanding  stock of
the Company, the exercise price of an incentive option may not be less than 110%
of the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant.  Also, the aggregate
fair market value of the stock with respect to which incentive stock options are
exercisable  for the first time by any  individual  in any calendar year may not
exceed  $100,000.  All  grants  under  the plan  since its  inception  have been
non-qualified  stock option grants. A summary of outstanding stock options under
this plan is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   Number
                                                           Price per Share        of Shares
                                                        -------------------------------------
         <S>                                            <C>                       <C>
         Outstanding at December 31, 1999               $    6.07 - 26.75         3,346,480
           Granted.................................         10.56 - 24.38           581,250
           Exercised...............................          6.07 - 22.75          (362,125)
           Canceled................................         10.00 - 25.88          (206,625)
                                                        -------------------------------------
         Outstanding at December 31, 2000..........     $    8.00 - 26.75         3,358,980
           Granted.................................         14.37 - 37.62         1,279,000
           Exercised...............................          7.88 - 35.21        (1,012,695)
           Canceled................................          8.00 - 34.30          (220,787)
                                                        -------------------------------------
         Outstanding at December 31, 2001..........     $    8.69 - 37.62         3,404,498
           Granted.................................         24.96 - 37.25           630,750
           Exercised...............................          8.69 - 26.75          (294,693)
           Canceled................................          8.75 - 38.00          (206,075)
                                                        -------------------------------------
         Outstanding at December 31, 2002..........     $    8.94 - 37.62         3,532,565
                                                        =====================================
</TABLE>

     Options to purchase  1,566,104,  1,250,261 and  1,729,033  shares of common
stock were exercisable at December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

                                       56
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 10 - STOCK OPTION PLANS (CONTINUED)

     The Company also maintains a stock option plan for  non-employee  directors
of the Company  under which  300,000  shares of common  stock are  reserved  for
future issuance.  All director stock options are granted at fair market value on
the date of grant and  expire on the  earlier of  termination  of service to the
Company as a director or seven  years.  Options  granted  under this plan become
exercisable  six months from the date of grant. A summary of  outstanding  stock
options under this plan is as follows:

<TABLE>
                                                                                Number
                                                            Price per Share    of Shares
                                                           -------------------------------
         <S>                                               <C>                  <C>
         Outstanding at December 31, 1999..........        $  6.56 -  23.91     90,000
           Granted.................................                   12.44     20,000
           Exercised...............................           6.56 -   6.75    (20,000)
                                                           -------------------------------
         Outstanding at December 31, 2000..........        $  9.09 -  23.91     90,000
           Granted.................................                   20.65     30,000
           Exercised...............................           9.09 -  23.91    (70,000)
                                                           -------------------------------
         Outstanding at December 31, 2001..........        $ 12.44 -  23.91     50,000
           Granted.................................                   29.02     30,000
                                                           -------------------------------
         Outstanding at December 31, 2002..........        $ 12.44 -  29.02     80,000
                                                           ===============================
</TABLE>

     All options under this plan were  exercisable  at December 31, 2002,  2001,
and 2000.

     Pro forma  information  regarding  net  income  and  earnings  per share is
required  by SFAS  No.  123,  and has  been  determined  as if the  Company  had
accounted  for its employee and  non-employee  director  stock options under the
fair value method.

     The fair values for these options were estimated at the date of grant using
a  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with  the  following  weighted-average
assumptions for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively:  risk-free interest rates of
4.01%,  5.16% and 5.02%;  volatility factors of the expected market price of the
Company's  common stock of .481, .475, and .442; and  weighted-average  expected
life of the  options of 9, 9 and 8.9 years.  The  Company  assumed a 0% dividend
yield over the expected life of the options. The weighted-average fair values of
options  granted during the years ended  December 31, 2002,  2001, and 2000 were
$17.75,  $16.52  and  $9.24,   respectively.   The  weighted-average   remaining
contractual  life at December 31, 2002,  for all  outstanding  options under the
Company's stock option plans is 7.058 years. The weighted-average exercise price
for all  outstanding  options under the Company's stock option plans was $22.78,
$20.63 and $16.12 at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     The  Black-Scholes   option  valuation  model  was  developed  for  use  in
estimating the fair value of traded options,  which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully  transferable.  In addition,  option  valuation models require the
input of highly  subjective  assumptions,  including  the  expected  stock price
volatility.   Because  the   Company's   stock   options  have   characteristics
significantly  different from those of traded options and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially  affect the fair value estimate,  in
management's opinion, the existing model does not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.


                                       57
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 10 - STOCK OPTION PLANS (CONTINUED)

     For  purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  the  estimated  fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period.  The Company's
pro forma information for the year ended December 31, is as follows:

<TABLE>
                                                       2002         2001        2000
                                                    ---------    ---------   ---------
                                                  (In thousands, except per share data)
      <S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>
      Net income as reported...................     $ 81,992     $ 66,352    $ 51,708
                                                    =========    ========    ========
      Stock-based compensation expense
         as reported...........................     $      -     $      -    $      -
      Stock-based compensation expense
         under fair value method...............     $  7,217     $  5,406    $  3,531
                                                    --------     --------    --------
      Pro forma net income.....................     $ 74,775     $ 60,946    $ 48,177
                                                    ========     ========    ========
      Pro forma basic net income per share.....     $   1.41     $   1.17    $   0.94
                                                    ========     ========    ========
      Pro forma net income per share-
         assuming dilution.....................     $   1.39     $   1.15    $   0.93
                                                    ========     ========    ========
</TABLE>

NOTE 11 - INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

     The following  table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted income
per common share:
<TABLE>
                                                                   Years ended December 31,
                                                                2002         2001         2000
                                                             ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                             (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                          <C>          <C>          <C>
Numerator (basic and diluted):
  Net income.............................................    $  81,992    $  66,352    $  51,708
                                                             ==========   ==========   ==========
Denominator:
  Denominator for basic income per common share-
    weighted-average shares..............................       53,114       52,121       51,168
  Effect of stock options (Note 10)......................          578          665          560
                                                             ----------   ----------   ----------
  Denominator for diluted income per common share-
    adjusted weighted-average shares and
     assumed conversion..................................       53,692       52,786       51,728
                                                             ==========   ==========   ==========
Basic net income per common share........................    $    1.54    $    1.27    $    1.01
                                                             ==========   ==========   ==========
Net income per common share-assuming dilution............    $    1.53    $    1.26    $    1.00
                                                             ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>
                                       58
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 12 - INCOME TAXES

     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary  differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of
the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows at December 31:

<TABLE>
                                                       2002          2001
                                                    ----------    ----------
                                                         (In thousands
<S>                                                 <C>           <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Current:
     Allowance for doubtful accounts...........     $      327    $      665
     Inventory carrying value..................            967             -
     Other accruals............................          3,746         4,284
                                                    ----------    ----------
                                                         5,040         4,949

Deferred tax liabilities:
  Current:
     Inventory carrying value..................              -         1,041

  Noncurrent:
     Property and equipment....................         15,685         8,333
       Other...................................            254           808
                                                    ----------    ----------
       Total deferred tax liabilities..........         15,939        10,182
                                                    ----------    ----------
       Net deferred tax liabilities ...........     $  (10,899)   $   (5,233)
                                                    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>
                                       59
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 12 - INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

      The provision for income taxes consists of the following:
<TABLE>
                                 Current   Deferred     Total
                                --------   --------   --------
                                       (In thousands)
<S>                             <C>        <C>        <C>
2002:
     Federal............        $ 39,038   $  5,113   $ 44,151
     State..............           4,286        553      4,839
                                --------   --------   --------
                                $ 43,324   $  5,666   $ 48,990
                                ========   ========   ========
2001:
     Federal............        $ 30,429   $  5,702   $ 36,131
     State..............           3,575        669      4,244
                                --------   --------   --------
                                $ 34,004   $  6,371   $ 40,375
                                ========   ========   ========
2000:
     Federal............        $ 25,120   $  2,946   $ 28,066
     State..............           3,086        299      3,385
                                --------   --------   --------
                                $ 28,206   $  3,245   $ 31,451
                                ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

     A reconciliation  of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed
at the federal statutory rate is as follows:

<TABLE>
                                                               2002        2001       2000
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                      (In thousands)
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
Federal income taxes at statutory rate...............       $  45,844   $  37,354   $  29,106
State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit.......           3,140       2,775       2,200
Other items, net.....................................               6         246         145
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                            $  48,990   $  40,375   $  31,451
                                                            =========   =========   =========
</TABLE>

     The tax benefit associated with the exercise of non-qualified stock options
has  been  reflected  as  additional   paid-in   capital  in  the   accompanying
consolidated financial statements.

     During the years ended December 31, 2002,  2001, and 2000, cash paid by the
Company for income taxes amounted to $31,119,000,  $28,676,000 and  $24,244,000,
respectively.

                                       60
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
         Exhibit 10.24 - 2001 Amendment to the O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
                             1993 Stock Option Plan

                              2001 AMENDMENT TO THE
                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                             1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN

     WHEREAS, O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. (the "Company") has heretofore adopted,
and subsequently  amended the O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan
(the "Stock Option Plan"), under which shares of the Company's common stock, par
value $.01 per share (the  "Common  Stock"),  may be issued upon the exercise of
incentive and  nonqualified  stock options granted pursuant to and in accordance
with the terms of the Stock Option Plan; and

     WHEREAS,  Article  VIII of the  Stock  Option  Plan  empowers  the Board of
Directors to alter and amend the Stock Option Plan; and

     WHEREAS,  in order to provide a continuing  means of fulfilling the purpose
of the Stock Option Plan,  the Board of Directors of the Company has  authorized
the  amendment  of the Stock  Option  Plan to  increase  the number of shares of
Common Stock  issuable  upon the  exercise of options  granted  thereunder  from
6,000,000 to 8,000,000.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the Stock Option Plan is hereby amended as follows:

     1.   The first  sentence of Article III of the Stock  Option Plan is hereby
          deleted in its entirety, and the following substituted in lieu thereof
          to  constitute  the first  sentence of said Article III from and after
          the effectiveness of this Amendment:

          "The  aggregate  number of shares  which may be issued  under the Plan
          shall not exceed 8,000,000 shares of Stock."

     2.   The  provisions  of this  Amendment  shall be effective as of the date
          hereof.

     3.   Except and to the extent  hereinabove set forth, the Stock Option Plan
          shall remain in full force and effect.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment is dated as of the 8th day of May 2001.


                                                 By:  /s/  David E. O'Reilly
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 David E. O'Reilly
                                                 Chief Executive Officer

                                       61
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                         Report Of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  as of December 31, 2002,  and 2001, and the
related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the  three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  2002.  These
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position  of O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  at December 31,  2002,  and 2001,  and the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2002, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.


                                                          /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                                          ----------------------

Kansas City, Missouri
February 21, 2003

                                       62
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Shareholder Information

CORPORATE ADDRESS

233 South Patterson
Springfield, Missouri 65802
417/862-3333
Web site - www.oreillyauto.com

REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT

UMB Bank
928 Grand Boulevard
Kansas City, Missouri 64141-0064

Inquiries regarding stock transfers, lost certificates or address changes should
be directed to UMB Bank at the above address.

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Ernst and Young LLP
One Kansas City Place
Kansas City, Missouri 64105-2143

LEGAL COUNSEL

Gallop Johnson & Neuman, L.C.
101 South Hanley Road, Suite 1600
St. Louis, Missouri 63105

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100
Chicago, Illinois 60606

ANNUAL MEETING

The annual meeting of shareholders of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. will be held at
10:00 a.m. local time on May 6, 2003, at the University Plaza Convention Center,
333 John Q. Hammons Parkway in Springfield, Missouri. Sharedholders of record as
of February 28, 2003, will be entitled to vote at this meeting.

FORM 10-K REPORT

The Form 10-K Report of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  and our quarterly  press  releases are  available  without
charge to shareholders  upon written request.  These requests and other investor
contacts should be directed to James R. Batten,  Vice President of Finance/Chief
Financial Officer, at the corporate address.

TRADING SYMBOL

The  Company's  common  stock is traded on The  Nasdaq  Stock  Market  (National
Market) under the symbol ORLY.

                                       63
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS

As of February 28, 2003,  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. had  approximately  23,876
shareholders  based on the number of holders  of record and an  estimate  of the
number of individual participants represented by security position listings.

ANALYST COVERAGE

The following analysts provide research coverage of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.

William Blair & Co. - Mark Miller
Merrill Lynch - Douglas Neviera
Advest - Brett Jordan
U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray - Reed Anderson
Salomon Smith Barney - Bill Julian
Credit Suisse First Boston - Gary Balter
Sidoti & Co. - Scott Stember

MARKET PRICES AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION

The  prices  in the  table  below  represent  the high and low  sales  price for
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market.

The common stock began  trading on April 22, 1993. No cash  dividends  have been
declared  since  1992,  and the  Company  does not  anticipate  paying  any cash
dividends in the forseeable future.

<TABLE>
                               2002                     2001
------------------   ----------------------    ----------------------
                           High      Low          High        Low
------------------   ----------  ----------    ----------  ----------
<S>                   <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>
First Quarter         $  37.25    $  28.61      $  27.19    $  15.50
Second Quarter           34.42       27.05         29.45       18.75
Third Quarter            32.47       24.10         35.54       22.60
Fourth Quarter           31.40       24.28         38.44       27.00
For the Year             37.25       24.10         38.44       15.50

</TABLE>
                                       64
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Exhibit 21.1 - Subsidiaries of the Company
<TABLE>
                 Subsidiary                       State of Incorporation
      <S>                                                <C>
      Ozark Automotive Distributors, Inc.                Missouri
      Greene County Realty Co.                           Missouri
      O'Reilly II Aviation, Inc.                         Missouri
      Hi-Lo Automotive, Inc.                             Delaware
      Mid-State Automotive Distributors, Inc.            Tennessee

</TABLE>

     One  hundred  percent  of the  capital  stock of each of the  above  listed
subsidiaries is directly owned by O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.


                                       65
<PAGE>

                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
        Exhibit 23.1 - Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors

We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries of our report dated February 21,
2003 included in the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders of O'Reilly  Automotive,
Inc and Subsidiaries.

Our audits  also  included  the  consolidated  financial  statement  schedule of
O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries listed in Item 15(a). This schedule
is the  responsibility  of the Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, the financial statements
schedule  referred to above,  when considered in relation to the basic financial
statement  taken  as a whole,  presents  fairly  in all  material  respects  the
information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 No. 33-61632,  Form S-8 No. 33-73892,  Form S-8 No. 33-91022, Form S-8
No. 333-59568 and Form S-8 No.  333-63467) of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. of our
report  dated  February 21, 2003,  with  respect to the  consolidated  financial
statements  incorporated  herein by  reference,  and our report  included in the
preceding  paragraph  with  respect  to  the  consolidated  financial  statement
schedule included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
for the year ended December 31, 2002.


                                                         /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                                         -----------------------


Kansas City, Missouri
March 24, 2003


                                       66
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                         Exhibit 99.1 CEO Certification

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002


In  connection  with the  Quarterly  Report of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period  ending  December 31, 2002, as filed with
the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the date hereof (the  "Report"),  I,
David E. O'Reilly, Chief Executive Officer of the Company,  certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that:

     (1)  The Report fully  complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The  information  contained  in the  Report  fairly  presents,  in all
          material respects,  the financial  condition and results of operations
          of the Company.




/s/ David E. O'Reilly
----------------------
David E. O'Reilly
Chief Executive Officer

March 27, 2003


This  certification  is made solely for purposes of 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, and
not for any other purpose.

                                       67
<PAGE>
                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                        Exhibit 99.2 - CFO Certification

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002


In  connection  with the  Quarterly  Report of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period  ending  December 31, 2002, as filed with
the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"),  I,
James R. Batten, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted  pursuant to Section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that:

     (1)  The Report fully  complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The  information  contained  in the  Report  fairly  presents,  in all
          material respects,  the financial  condition and results of operations
          of the Company.




/s/ James R. Batten
--------------------
James R. Batten
Chief Financial Officer

March 27, 2003


This  certification  is made solely for purposes of 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, and
not for any other purpose.

                                       68

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
